




PROLOGUE 



Squirrelpaw tasted the air. A soft breeze was spiraling into the sandy ravine, thick with the scent of 
moss and prey. Her paws pricked with excitement. She was about to explore her Clan’s territory, 
something she’d only smelled until now, for the first time. Hurry up, Dustpelt. On the other side of 
the clearing, her new mentor lingered beside Firestar while Cinderpelt and Sandstorm chatted next to 
them. She blinked at Leafpaw. “Couldn’t they have done their talking before the ceremony?” she 
mewed. “I want to explore the forest.” 

“Me too!” Leafpaw’s fur was fluffed with excitement. “Cinderpelt promised to show me where 
coltsfoot and burdock grow. I'm going to make my first poultice this afternoon.” Her amber eyes 
sparkled. “Wasn’t the ceremony great? Everyone was looking at us like we were real warriors 
already and not kits anymore.” 

“We’re not kits anymore!” Squirrelpaw remembered with a shiver of pleasure how Firestar had 
said her apprentice name for the first time. He*d looked so proud. She began to pace in front of 
Leafpaw, unable to keep still. “And we'll be a real warrior and a real medicine cat soon. I hope I 
don't have to train for too long. I want to be a warrior by leaf-bare. Then I can lead patrols.” Her 
thoughts were racing. “I wonder what my warrior name will be!” 

“Slow down! You only just got your apprentice name.” Leafpool nudged her with her muzzle. 

“But everyone gets to be a 'paw. I want a name that's all my own.” 

“I can call you Squirrelface if you like," Leafpaw purred. 

“Very funny.” Squirrelpaw glanced at her sister. “Do you think Firestar will name me 
Squirreltail? I hope not. Pd rather be called Squirrelflame or Squirreldash.” Her thoughts sped ahead. 
“But I won't care what my warrior name is as long as I can be Squirrelstar someday." She stopped 
and looked earnestly at Leafpaw. “Do you think ГІ be leader one day?" 

Leafpaw whisked her tail. *Of course!" 

Squirrelpaw felt a rush of pleasure. “Ill be leader and ГЇЇ have kits and they'll rule the whole 
forest." 

Leafpaw nodded eagerly. “And ГЇЇ be the best medicine cat and ГЇЇ share prophecies with 
StarClan every day, and together we will be the most powerful cats who ever lived." 

Squirrelpaw paused. “Did StarClan tell you that?" she mewed hopefully. 

“No.” Leafpaw glanced at her paws shyly. “But it's obviously true.” 

Across the clearing, Firestar turned away from Dustpelt. Squirrelpaw's heart leaped. They're 
done talking!” She looked eagerly toward Dustpelt and Cinderpelt. Disappointment dropped like a 
stone in her belly as they began talking. “What else 1s left to say?" 

But Firestar and Sandstorm were headed across the clearing. 

“How does it feel to be an apprentice?" Firestar meowed happily as he neared. 

“Great!” Leafpaw hurried to meet them. 

Sandstorm swished her tail. “Do you feel different now that you're 'paws?" 

“Of course!” Leafpaw wove around her mother. “Squirrelpaw’s already planning her warrior 
name." 

Squirrelpaw fluffed out her pelt. “Pve been planning my warrior name for moons!” She looked 
earnestly at Firestar. ^You won't name me Squirreltail, will you?" 


“One step at a time,” Firestar purred, his eyes shining with pride. “First you must finish your 
apprentice training.” 

“That ll be easy!” Squirrelpaw’s tail shivered with excitement. 

Leafpaw frowned. “011 be easy for you. You don't have to remember the name of every herb in 
the forest." 

“But I have to remember every prey-scent and paw print," Squirrelpaw pointed out. 

Sandstorm blinked at them fondly. “I know you'll both make us proud." 

“What if Leafpaw gets her medicine-cat name before I get my warrior name?" Squirrelpaw 
fretted. “That would be embarrassing." 

“It won't matter," Firestar assured her. “You each have your own path to tread." 

Sandstorm stretched her muzzle forward and touched her nose to Squirrelpaw's and then to 
Leafpaw's. “As long as you have each other, you'll both stand tall.” 

Squirrelpaw's fur prickled with happiness. She looked at her sister. “Leafpaw and I will always 
stick together." She meant it with every hair on her pelt. 

Leafpaw twined her tail around Squirrelpaw’s. “And we'll always help each other," she vowed. 
"Nothing will ever drive us apart." 





CHAPTER 1 


Se 


Greenleaf was giving way to leaf-fall, and shriveled leaves were already drifting along the forest 
trails. Ahead, a stream babbled, tumbling its way toward the lake, and beyond it the moor rose against 
a blue afternoon sky. Squirrelflight padded from beneath the trees and tasted the air. She could smell 
heather, dusty and browning. 

Eaglewing, Plumstone, and Bumblestripe fanned out beside her. 

"It's quiet,” Eaglewing murmured. 

Plumstone gazed at the heather stretching ahead. “It’s perfect hunting weather.” 

Eaglewing stared at the trees as though he might see through them. “We’d best be on our guard.” 

Squirrelflight nodded, knowing that the young warrior was probably thinking of Ambermoon, his 
former mentor, who had been attacked by an owl a moon before on a day very much like this. She had 
died. /t 5 good to remember, Squirrelflight thought, that even the clearest days hold their dangers. 

Squirrelflight narrowed her eyes, straining to make out a dark shape near the top of the moor. She 
was leading the border patrol and had promised to report back on their neighbors. It had been nearly 
three moons since the Clans had redrawn their borders to make room for SkyClan, and the new scent 
lines had remained unchallenged. Bramblestar was happy—the new peace suited him—but he'd 
confided in her that he was worried that it was too good to be true. 

The dark shape dipped beneath the heather. Another darted after it. “Is that a WindClan patrol?" 
Squirrelflight wondered. 

Bumblestripe followed her gaze. “I think so.” 

"They're heading away." Plumstone narrowed her eyes. 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws. “We’d better check the border to make sure it hasn't been 
crossed." 

Eaglewing padded forward and sniffed the edge of the stream. Plumstone headed along the bank. 

Squirrelflight flicked her tail toward the stretch of prickly gorse beyond. “The border’s been 
moved," she reminded them. 

“Yeah, but the stream is where the forest ends." Eaglewing blinked at her. 

“We have to get used to our new borders, too." Squirrelflight glanced at the ginger she-cat, 
surprised that a young warrior should already be so rooted in Clan traditions. Did her sister, 
Plumstone, feel the same way? “Have you ever marked the new border?" 

“Thornclaw said there was no point," Plumstone told her. “He says ThunderClan cats don't hunt 
on moorland. We hunt in the forest." 

Squirrelflight widened her eyes, surprised. A strong Clan should adapt to change, not ignore it. 
Bramblestar would have to speak to his senior warriors. Has the peace only held because the Clans 
haven t been trying to enforce our new borders? She padded downstream to where stones jutted out 
of the water, and hopped onto the first one. “ThunderClan cats hunt on ThunderClan land,” she called 
back to her Clanmates. *From now on we mark all our borders." She scrambled onto the next stone, 
uncurling her claws as her pads slipped on the wet rock. Then she leaped onto the far shore. The air 
tasted peaty here and stringent with gorse scents. She was surprised that it could be so different only a 
few paces from the tree line. But the moor wind was brisk, always carrying fresh smells. In the calm 
of the forest, scents hung longer in the air. 


Behind her, Eaglewing and Bumblestripe looked distrustfully at the crossing stones. 

“Are you coming?” Squirrelflight whisked her tail impatiently. 

Plumstone brushed past her sister and leaped onto the first stone. “Come on!” She pricked her 
ears. We've never been on WindClan land before.” 

“It's ThunderClan territory now,” Squirrelflight corrected her. The stretch of moorland had 
clearly been left unhunted. The grass was untrampled, and no prey-scent sweetened the air. And yet 
ThunderClan hadn’t gone hungry since the border changes. It had been a good greenleaf. Prey had 
been plentiful. But when leaf-bare drove prey underground, they’d need this precious hunting 
territory. They had, after all, given a good swath of their forest to SkyClan. 

Plumstone hopped onto the bank and stopped beside Squirrelflight. “It smells like WindClan 
here.” 

Squirrelflight sniffed again as Bumblestripe and Eaglewing crossed the stream. There was a hint 
of WindClan, but the scent wasn't fresh. “It’s probably the wind carrying the smell down from the 
high moor,” she told Plumstone. 

Plumstone sniffed the grass. “Everything smells like WindClan here." 

Bumblestripe reached them. “It was their land for a long time," he commented, looking warily 
toward the moor. “I guess it'll take a while for ThunderClan scent to take hold." 

Squirrelflight headed toward the line of gorse that marked the border. “It”11 take hold quicker if 
we leave scent marks." She grazed her cheek along a branch, wincing as the prickles snagged her fur. 
Bumblestripe padded stiffly along the border, leaving marks as he went, while Eaglewing and 
Plumstone plucked at the grass, rubbing their scent into the earth. 

“I can't smell any WindClan scent markers." Eaglewing looked puzzled. “They haven't marked 
the new border." 

"Perhaps they've been busy. Remember, Whitetail died recently, and they would have had her 
vigil. Wait till the weather starts to turn," Squirrelflight warned her. They'll be more careful about 
borders when prey is scarce." 

Bumblestripe jerked his muzzle toward the forest. His ears pricked with excitement. Eaglewing 
stiffened as she followed his gaze. 

“Rabbit!” Plumstone darted toward the stream as a fat buck bounded from the forest. 

Bumblestripe and Eaglewing pelted after her. They scrambled over the crossing stones that 
spanned the stream and raced into the trees toward their quarry. The rabbit squealed in panic as it 
saw them and fled for cover. But Bumblestripe was fast. With one leap, he crossed the stretch 
between hunters and prey and pinned the rabbit to the ground. He killed it with a bite before 
Eaglewing and Plumstone reached him. 

Squirrelflight watched them as they took turns sniffing the juicy fresh-kill, their pelts fluffed with 
excitement. Her Clanmates were clearly happier hunting in the forest. She rubbed her cheek on 
another branch and padded back to the stream. Bramblestar would have to remind his warriors to 
keep the markers on this border fresh. If they didn't make this land their own, there might come a day 
when the WindClan scent markers on this stretch of land wouldn't be stale anymore. 


“It won't feel like a real Gathering." Squirrelflight glanced at the night sky as she padded beside 
Bramblestar. There's no full moon.” 

“It's not a real Gathering,” Bramblestar reminded her. “Just a meeting of the leaders and 
deputies.” 

Beside them, the lake lapped sluggishly over the shore. Beneath Squirrelflight's paws, the pebbles 


were still warm from the day’s heat. She looked anxiously toward the island. Silhouettes moved 
across the tree-bridge. She couldn’t make out who they were. She tasted the air but smelled only 
moorland scents and remembered her patrol with Bumblestripe, Plumstone, and Eaglewing. Did 
Harestar want to challenge the markers they’d left? Surely he couldn’t complain. It was ThunderClan 
land now. “Why did Harestar call the meeting?” 

“Emberfoot didn’t say.” The WindClan warrior had visited the ThunderClan camp while she’d 
been resting after her patrol. “He just brought the message. Harestar wants to talk.” Bramblestar 
moved closer, letting his flank brush hers. “The moon may not be full, but it’s very bright tonight.” He 
glanced at her affectionately. “It’s nice to be alone.” 

She leaned against him. “I can't remember the last time it was just us.” 

“Do you remember when this territory still felt new?" 

She did. *You'd just been made deputy." 

“We used to sneak out and explore after the camp had gone to sleep." 

Squirrelflight purred. “You were terrible at sneaking. I don't know why we were never caught." 

"Probably because I was deputy," Bramblestar whispered. 

“More likely because our denmates were kind and pretended not to hear us. Even Dustpelt, and 
he was always a stickler about young warriors getting enough sleep." Happiness warmed her pelt as 
she remembered her old mentor. It seemed countless moons since she'd been his apprentice. How 
young she'd been without realizing it. Recalling suddenly how she and Leafpool had planned great 
futures for themselves, she glanced self-consciously at her paws. / guess we haven t done so badly. 
She didn't feel old yet, but it had been a long time since she'd felt the rush of excitement she used to 
feel in her first moons as a warrior, whenever she was picked to go on patrol or attend a Gathering. 
She pressed closer to Bramblestar. *Do you miss being young?" 

He shrugged. “I miss being irresponsible. Back then, the only thing we had to worry about was 
our next hunt. That was before we became leader and deputy, and before we had kits to look after." 

Squirrelflight felt a pang of longing. Sparkpelt and Alderheart were grown, and she'd never had a 
chance to know their littermates, Juniperkit and Dandelionkit, who had died. She'd been hoping to 
have a new litter by now—tiny kits to nurture and love. But they'd had no luck. “Having kits didn’t 
make me feel old. I liked the responsibility. Itll be good to feel that way again.” She glanced 
hopefully at Bramblestar. When he didn't comment, she prompted him. “Don't you think?" 

“Of course." He didn't look at her. 

Anxiety prickled beneath her pelt. She’d wanted him to sound more enthusiastic about kits. “Let's 
pretend we're young again now. It's almost like we're sneaking out of camp." Squirrelflight kept her 
mew light. *Half the Clan are already in their nests, and the rest will be asleep by the time we get 
home." 

“I wish we could.” Was that a sigh in Bramblestar's mew? “But we can't be late for the meeting. 
And we have to go straight back to camp afterward; Birchfall and Lionblaze will be waiting to find 
out what happened." 

He was worrying about the Clan again. He was a good leader; he always put his Clan before his 
own needs. But she couldn't help wishing he could put her first this time. Disappointment jabbed at 
her heart as their moment of closeness passed, but she ignored it and focused on the meeting. “Surely 
Harestar can't have anything serious to talk about. It's been peaceful since the storm. It finally feels 
normal to have SkyClan with us beside the lake, and the other Clans seem happy with the new 
borders." 

“Then why call a meeting?" Bramblestar meowed. 


“There could be sickness, or Twoleg trouble.” 

“Its pointless to guess. Let's go find out.” Bramblestar quickened his pace. When the island was 
near, he broke into a run. Squirrelflight hurried after him, and as she followed him across the tree- 
bridge, she glanced down at the moon-dappled water. Pebbles crunched on the shore behind her. She 
looked back and saw Mistystar and Reedwhisker. She nodded a greeting, but the two cats had already 
plunged into the water and were swimming the short stretch of lake to the island. 

On the far shore, Bramblestar pushed his way into the long grass. Fresh scents lingered here. 
SkyClan’s, WindClan’s, and ShadowClan's leaders had already arrived. Squirrelflight pushed her 
way among the stems, following the passage Bramblestar had opened to the clearing. 

As she emerged on the other side, she saw Tigerstar, Harestar, and Leafstar in a pool of moonlight 
at the center. Cloverfoot, Crowfeather, and Hawkwing hung back, exchanging watchful glances. 
Bramblestar was already hurrying to join them. As Squirrelflight caught up to him, branches swished 
overhead. The breeze tumbled fallen leaves across the ground. Squirrelflight shivered. She was used 
to the clearing teeming with warriors and apprentices, their scents and voices crowding the air. 

Harestar nodded a greeting as they reached him. “Thank you for coming.” 

Squirrelflight searched the WindClan leader”s eyes, but his gaze was unreadable. She could see 
stiffness and tension in the others that made her wary. Were she and Bramblestar the only ones who 
didn't know what this meeting was about? She glanced over her shoulder as the long grass swished 
and Mistystar and Reedwhisker padded, dripping, into the clearing. 

“Harestar.” Mistystar bowed her head respectfully as she reached them. 

Harestar acknowledged her with a blink, then swept his gaze around the gathered cats. “I called 
you here because there’s a problem with SkyClan's territory.” 

Surprise lit Leafstar’s gaze. “A problem?” 

Mistystar, Harestar, and Tigerstar were staring coolly at the SkyClan leader. Alarm pricked 
through Squirrelflight’s pelt. Had Harestar already discussed this with the other leaders? 

Bramblestar narrowed his eyes. “If there’s a problem with SkyClan's territory,” he meowed 
stiffly, “why isn't Leafstar bringing it to us?" 

“She clearly hasn't noticed it," Mistystar meowed pointedly. 

“Have your Clans been talking behind SkyClan’s back again?” Leafstar’s fur ruffled. 

Hawkwing moved closer to his leader. “We hoped those days were over.” 

“It's not a question of talking behind your back.” Crowfeather whisked his tail. The WindClan 
deputy seemed impatient. “If you'd lived here longer, you'd have seen the problem already.” 

Squirrelflight stared at him. Was he trying to insult SkyClan? 

“We settled the issue of SkyClan's territory three moons ago,” Bramblestar growled. “We all 
agreed.” 

“It was the best plan we could think of at the time.” Tigerstar shifted his paws. The division of 
land had been the ShadowClan leader”s idea. Was he regretting 1t now? 

Harestar was still staring at Leafstar. “Three moons has given us time to see the flaws in that 
plan.” 

“What flaws?” Leafstar demanded. 

“We shifted our borders to make room for SkyClan.” Harestar glanced around at the other leaders. 
“We were happy to do 1t. We know SkyClan belongs beside the lake. StarClan has made that clear. 
But moving borders means that now some of us have land we can't use.” 

“The water channels on the land RiverClan gave us make 1t hard for us to patrol,” Tigerstar 
agreed. 


Mistystar fluffed out her fur. “Yet they’re full of fish that only RiverClan can catch and eat,” she 
meowed. 

“And you were given moorland.” Harestar nodded at Bramblestar. 

Bramblestar’s pelt ruffled along his spine. “We use the land beyond the stream.” 

“Really?” Harestar looked unconvinced. 

“Larksong caught a rabbit there yesterday,” Bramblestar told him. 

“Only one?” Harestar narrowed his eyes. 

“One was all we needed.” 

Harestar pressed on. “Today your patrol barely crossed the stream.” 

Squirrelflight felt heat beneath her pelt. Had the WindClan leader been spying on them? “It was a 
border patrol, not a hunting patrol,” she pointed out. 

“And yet you hunted.” Harestar stared at her. “But in the forest, not on the moorland.” 

Bramblestar shifted his paws. “We hunt wherever the prey runs.” 

“And catch one rabbit where we would have caught three,” Harestar meowed. 

“Are you insulting my warriors?” Bramblestar’s hackles lifted. 

“Of course not.” Harestar swished his tail. *We're more experienced at hunting on moorland, 
that's all.” 

“We’ll be experienced at hunting there eventually,” Squirrelflight put in. “We all just need time to 
adjust to our new territories." 

Leafstar turned to Harestar and puffed out her chest. “What are you trying to say?” she asked. “Do 
you want SkyClan to leave again? If you—" 

“No cat thinks you should leave," Harestar said quickly. 

Leafstar went on. “If you want us gone, you'll have to take it up with our ancestors" 

Squirrelflight felt a rush of sympathy for the SkyClan leader. *Haven't they moved enough?" 

Harestar met her gaze. “All I’m saying is that territory is being wasted. WindClan is growing— 
Featherpelt is expecting kits—and we need every bit of land we can get." 

“You act like you need land more than we do. But SkyClan is growing too!” Leafstar blinked at 
him. *Violetshine has kits." 

“All the Clans are growing," Harestar meowed evenly. Squirrelflight shifted her paws self- 
consciously. It seemed everyone was having kits except her. The WindClan leader went on. “Which is 
why no Clan should hold on to land it can't use." He looked pointedly at Bramblestar. 

Bramblestar met his gaze. “ThunderClan uses all its land." 

Squirrelflight stared at the ground. Perhaps she'd been wrong to insist that ThunderClan adapt to 
its new territory. The Clans might work better hunting land that they were used to. “We don't use the 
moorland as much as we should,” she admitted. “The border had barely been marked before today.” 

Bramblestar swung his gaze toward her. "We're not giving up territory. It would leave us with 
less than the other Clans." 

“Pd happily give RiverClan's marshland back," Tigerstar meowed. “But SkyClan would have to 
return our forest." 

Bramblestar lashed his tail. “No cat takes territory from SkyClan. We all fought too hard for this 
settlement. If we destroy it now, we'll be back where we started." 

“But is it fair to give SkyClan prey-rich land in exchange for marsh we can't use?" Tigerstar 
blinked at him. 

“You should have thought of that before you suggested it!" Bramblestar snapped. 

Tigerstar glared at the ThunderClan leader. *How could I know that WindClan would have to 


watch your warriors waste their prey?” 

Bramblestar bared his teeth. “My warriors don't waste prey!” 

Squirrelflight's tail bushed. She couldn't let them fight. “Perhaps there's another solution,” she 
mewed quickly. “One that means no land will be wasted, but SkyClan will still have equal territory.” 
Her thoughts whirled as she reached for a plan offered many moons ago before the Clans had come to 
their final arrangement. At the time, the leaders had been wary of a plan that would place SkyClan far 
from the others. But now it seemed like the most sensible solution. “What about the land beyond the 
abandoned Twolegplace?" 

"Where's that, again?" Leafstar narrowed her eyes. 

“At the far edge of ThunderClan and ShadowClan’s forest." Squirrelflight looked at her eagerly, 
hoping the SkyClan leader would like the idea. 

But Leafstar looked unconvinced. “If that's such good hunting territory, why hasn't ThunderClan 
or ShadowClan claimed it already?" 

Squirrelflight blinked. “When there were just four Clans, no cat needed it.” 

"We'd have no access to the lake," Hawkwing meowed. 

Tigerstar pricked his ears. “Why do you need the lake? You don't catch fish.” 

"You'd be nearer the Moonpool," Harestar meowed encouragingly. 

“What about herbs?" Leafstar countered. “There are some plants that only grow on the lakeshore.” 

“They could keep a narrow strip of forest," Squirrelflight meowed quickly. SkyClan shouldn't be 
cut off completely. “Enough to let them get to the lakeshore. And there might be herbs on the new land. 
We don't know what lies up there, except forest. It might be richer territory than this, for all we know. 
It must be worth exploring." 

Leafstar narrowed her eyes. *We've only just built our new camp and marked our borders. Why 
should we have to build another new home?" 

"You're right,” Tigerstar agreed. “That wouldn't be fair. But if it's better for all the Clans, then 
it's the right thing to do. And this time we will help you.” The ShadowClan leader looked at the 
others. “I’m sure all the Clans will help.” 

Hawkwing stared at the ShadowClan leader, clearly unconvinced. “When was the last time any 
cat visited this land?" 

Squirrelflight tensed as the cats glanced doubtfully at each other. 

“Tm not sure any cat’s ever fully explored it," Mistystar admitted. 

“Then why should we?" Hawkwing snapped. “It might be infested with foxes or Twolegs." 

Squirrelflight leaned forward. “But it's worth looking at, isn't it? What if it’s perfect Clan 
territory? We'd all have enough land to hunt on, and nothing would be wasted." 

Leafstar flicked her tail irritably. “You want to exile us again." 

“It wouldn't be exile," Squirrelflight objected. You'd be living right beside us.” 

Leafstar looked unimpressed. “Beside you, not among you. You'd always see us as outsiders.” 

Tigerstar narrowed his eyes. “That would be up to you.” 

Squirrelflight ignored the ShadowClan leader. We'd see you at Gatherings. And you'd still share 
borders with ThunderClan and ShadowClan." 

Harestar nodded. “SkyClan wouldn't be left out. We are one beneath StarClan now. We share 
ancestors." 

Leafstar looked thoughtful for a moment, as though she were seriously considering the idea. Then 
she seemed to blink the thought away and squared her shoulders defensively. “Moving into unknown 
territory would be dangerous and difficult. Who knows what's hiding in that forest?" 


“SkyClan is no stranger to dangerous situations,” Mistystar meowed. “I'm sure whatever 
challenges await you, you will face them with courage and skill.” 

Leafstar snorted. “Try telling that to my elders and queens.” 

Squirrelflight felt Bramblestar shift beside her. He was watching the others, his eyes dark with 
rage. She blinked at him hopefully. “We”d help SkyClan with the move, wouldn't we?" 

Before he could answer, Harestar spoke. “New land for a new Clan! This could be the best 
solution.” He sounded delighted. 

Hawkwing flexed his claws. “Nothing's changed here. You carve up territory as it suits you, 
without listening to what we want.” 

“We didn’t carve up territory.” Tigerstar’s pelt ruffled. “We came up with the best plan we 
could.” He met Hawkwing’s gaze. “You're one of us now. Surely you care about our problems as 
well as your own? We only want to please StarClan. Don’t you?” 

Leafstar's ears twitched. “Would moving us yet again please them?" 

“If it brings lasting peace, perhaps it would," Squirrelflight meowed quickly. “Let’s consult with 
our medicine cats. To make sure that StarClan approves." 

“And what if StarClan doesn't send a message?" Leafstar’s gaze darkened. They've been silent 
since the storm." 

Mistystar whisked her tail. “That's probably because there's nothing to worry about. They’d warn 
us if we were doing something wrong." 

Bramblestar growled softly. “So we can move a Clan off their land as long as our ancestors don't 
complain." His pelt twitched. “Is that how the warrior code works now?" 

“Our complaints matter too," Tigerstar told him. “The warrior code tells us to respect the living 
as well as the dead." 

Harestar tipped his head thoughtfully. *Let's at least think about Squirrelflight's suggestion," he 
meowed. 

Mistystar nodded. “We don't need to make a decision until everyone is happy. Perhaps if SkyClan 
has a chance to get used to the idea.” She glanced hopefully at Leafstar. 

The SkyClan leader frowned. “Come on, Hawkwing. We're wasting our breath here." 

“No, you're not—" Squirrelflight began. But Leafstar and Hawkwing were already heading away. 

“I hope they'll come around.” Tigerstar looked uncertainly at the other leaders. 

“It would solve all our problems," Harestar agreed. 

"Leafstar is a sensible cat." Mistystar glanced after the SkyClan leader. 

Bramblestar grunted. “Let's go.” He beckoned to Squirrelflight with a sharp flick of his tail. 

Mistystar dipped her head as he marched away. “It was a good plan, Squirrelflight.” 

“Thanks.” Squirrelflight turned to follow him. 

At the edge of the clearing, she darted in front of Bramblestar. As he stopped, she blinked at him 
eagerly. She had kept the leaders from fighting. But her heart lurched as she met his gaze. He was 
glaring at her. 

“What's wrong?” she mewed. 

“I don't think SkyClan should move,” he growled. 

“I know,” Squirrelflight mewed sympathetically. “But something needs to change. Tigerstar’s 
solution might have been the best one at the time. But the Clans are growing. We all need territory. 
This plan means that no one has to give up land.” 

“No one except SkyClan,” he muttered darkly. 

Squirrelflight blinked at him. “They”11 have new land. They're used to moving, and this might be 


the last move they ever have to make. This land beyond the abandoned Twolegplace might be perfect 
for them.” 

“Might be.” Bramblestar's tail twitched angrily. “Or it might be overrun with snakes, or dogs, or 
foxes. Warriors might die thanks to your idea.” 

Squirrelflight's heart pounded. Why was Bramblestar so angry? “SkyClan is strong and 
resourceful. They have survived so much. They can survive this." 

“Why do they have to survive anything?" 

“Land is being wasted!" Frustration burned beneath Squirrelflight's pelt, but she kept her voice 
low, aware that the other leaders were watching them from across the clearing. “Bumblestripe and 
Plumstone didn't even want to mark the WindClan border today. I don't think Eaglewing had ever 
crossed the stream. And the same thing's clearly happening in ShadowClan. Who ever heard of a 
ShadowClan cat getting their paws wet? They're never going to hunt on that marshland.” 

Bramblestar turned away and began to pad into the long grass. "They'll get used to it, just like 
we'll get used to the moorland beyond the stream." 

“But we'd all have bigger territories if SkyClan moved." Squirrelflight hurried after him. “And 
you heard Harestar and Leafstar. The Clans are growing. There'll be more kits by newleaf, more 
mouths to feed, more apprentices to train—" 

“More kits!” Bramblestar lashed his tail. “Is that all you think about now?" 

His words stung like claw marks. She watched him disappear into the grass, her chest tightening. 
“Don’t you think about it?" She pushed after him, but he was already hurrying ahead. He was on the 
tree-bridge by the time she caught up to him. She followed him over ıt and jumped onto the far shore. 

She fell in beside Bramblestar, breathless as she tried to keep up. “Don’t you think about kits, 
Bramblestar?” 

“I have kits," he snapped. 

“Alderheart and Sparkpelt? They're grown up now!” 

“I know!” Bramblestar didn't look at her. *They're old enough to look after themselves. Why are 
you so desperate to be responsible for new lives? Isn't being deputy enough?" 

“Tt should be, but it's not." Squirrelflight felt panic welling. “I’m getting older with each season. 
One day I won't be able to have more kits. I just want another litter before it's too late." 

“I know." Bramblestar sounded weary. “And of course I want kits. Just not as much as you do.” 

Squirrelflight stopped and stared after him. “Don't you love me anymore?" 

Bramblestar turned, his eyes sparking with exasperation. “Yes! But I am responsible for our Clan. 
And if the other Clans are planning to start up more trouble with SkyClan, I need to focus on that. I 
don't have as much energy as I used to. I’m getting older too.” 

“No, you're not!” Anger flared in Squirrelflight's chest. “You have more lives than me—" She 
broke off as a realization washed over her like ice water. Was that why he didn't care about kits? He 
had plenty of time to have kits in the future, maybe even with another mate, when she was dead. The 
thought made her feel sick. Bramblestar's next litter might have a mother who wasn't her. She stared 
at him, unable to speak. 

His gaze shimmered suddenly as though he saw her pain. “I’m sorry.” He hurried to her side and 
pressed his muzzle against her cheek. “I shouldn't have said anything. I was angry. I felt you weren't 
on my side at the meeting. I was trying to protect SkyClan.” 

“So was I!” She pulled away indignantly. “I was trying to find a solution that would keep the 
peace." 

“Maybe you're right. But that isn’t the point. You're my deputy.” His tail twitched. “You're 


supposed to back me up in front of the other Clans. We need to look united. You know how quickly 
Tigerstar smells weakness, and how he exploits it.” 

“It's not weak to have different opinions.” Squirrelflight's pelt pricked. 

“It looks a lot like weakness when a deputy disagrees with her leader in public." Bramblestar 
shifted his paws. “You should know better! You should have discussed your idea with me in private 
and we could have taken it to the other Clans together." 

“It might have been too late by then." Squirrelflight paused. She didn't want to argue. And 
besides, the issue with SkyClan wasn't what was worrying her now. “Pm sorry I spoke up without 
talking to you first. But is that really why you said you don't want to have kits?" 

Bramblestar gazed at her, his eyes round. “I’m sorry if I made it sound that way. I do want to have 
kits with you." 

"Really?" Her heart lifted. 

“Yes. Ifthat’s what you want." 

Squirrelflight stared at him. There was resignation in his eyes. Grief twisted her belly as he stared 
back at her blankly. She turned away. / want you to want it too. 

They followed the trail back to camp in silence. When they arrived, Larksong was guarding the 
entrance. His eyes flashed in the darkness as he saw them. “How was the meeting?" The black tom 
hurried forward. “What did Harestar want?" 

“It was the usual argument," Bramblestar meowed heavily as he ducked through the thorn tunnel. 
Squirrelflight let Larksong slip in front of her and followed them into camp. Birchfall and Lionblaze 
were waiting in the moonlit clearing as Bramblestar had predicted. As the three warriors clustered 
around Bramblestar, Squirrelflight hesitated. 

They hardly seemed to notice she was there. She felt barely there herself. The argument with 
Bramblestar buzzed in her head. He might have kits with another cat when I'm dead. She'd never 
really considered before that he would likely outlive her—by several lifetimes. Her heart sank as she 
understood suddenly, for the first time, that she would never become ThunderClan's leader. The 
kithood dreams she'd shared with Leafpool would come to nothing. Bramblestar would outlive her, 
and she'd only ever be the leader's mate. Sadness swamped her. What would she leave behind when 
she died? Would another cat replace her as soon as she was gone? 

Quietly, she padded toward the warriors” den. She'd sleep in her old nest tonight. Her heart ached 
too much to lie beside Bramblestar now. 





CHAPTER 2 


% 


“It's going to need repairing before leaf-bare.” Brackenfur looked up. 

Squirrelflight followed the old warrior’s gaze and saw holes in the roof of the elders’ den. 
Sunshine streamed through them, dazzling her. She looked away. “ТП organize a patrol to fix it,” she 
promised. 

Graystripe stuck his head through the entrance. “Are you going to patch up that roof?" 

“Of course," Squirrelflight told him. 

"She's going to patch it up!” Graystripe called over his shoulder to Millie, who was lying outside 
in the sunshine. 

"She's going to what?” croaked Millie. The old she-cat was growing increasingly deaf. 

“Patch it up!” Graystripe yowled. 

“Who with?" Millie sounded confused. “Has she been quarreling again?" 

Alarm flashed in Squirrelflight's chest. Did the Clan know about her spat with Bramblestar? They 
must have noticed she hadn't slept in his den last night. 

“The roof!” Rolling his eyes, Graystripe headed outside. 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws self-consciously. She was deputy as well as Bramblestar's mate. 
She couldn't appear at odds with the leader. Bramblestar had been right when he'd said that they must 
show a united front, and not just to the other Clans. Their own Clan should feel their relationship was 
strong. A quarrel between a leader and deputy could send ripples through the whole Clan. 

Brackenfur twitched his tail. It jerked her from her thoughts. “When will the work start?” He was 
still staring at the roof. 

“ГИ ask Dewnose and Thriftpaw to start work on it as soon as they get back from training." 

“Thanks.” Brackenfur padded to his nest and settled into it. “It’s been good to let sunshine into the 
den, but we can smell leaf-fall coming, and Cloudtail worries about Brightheart getting cold." 

“We’ll pad all the walls," Squirrelflight promised. “ТП be as warm as a mouse nest in here.” 

She ducked outside, nodding to Millie and Graystripe as she passed them, and glanced around the 
camp. Bramblestar was sunning himself on the Highledge with Thornclaw. She didn't look at him, 
afraid to catch his eye. She'd avoided him since she'd woken at dawn. Her grief had eased with 
sleep, and common sense had returned on waking. Of course Bramblestar loved her, and 1f he wanted 
kits less than she did, at least he'd been honest with her. She knew she'd overreacted. Why should he 
want exactly the same things that she did? And yet she still wasn't ready to speak to him. She'd 
assigned herself to the dawn patrol and then gone hunting. 

But she couldn't stay out of camp all day, and it was sunhigh now. There were no more chores 
until dusk patrol. Hesitating at the edge of the clearing, she looked for something to keep her busy. 
Hollytuft and Flippaw were back from training, nosing eagerly through the fresh-kill pile. Jayfeather 
and Alderheart were heading out of camp, Jayfeather leading the way as usual despite his blindness. 
Outside the nursery, Daisy was chatting to Lilyheart and Rosepetal, while Rosepetal's apprentice, 
Bristlepaw, nosed about in the ferns at the edge of the camp, clearly looking for mice. Squirrelflight 
wondered if it was time Daisy moved to the elders' den. It must be lonely in the nursery. But she was 
such a help to expectant queens. What if a warrior announced she was having kits? No one should 
have to sleep in the nursery alone. A pang of grief jabbed Squirrelflight's heart. / should be there by 


now. Her thoughts quickened. How could she have kits now that she knew that Bramblestar didn’t 
want them? He does want kits! she corrected herself. Just not as much as I do. 

But it hadn't been just the kits he'd been upset about. She’d contradicted him in front of the others. 
But they were close to fighting! Squirrelflight flicked her tail indignantly. And I have a right to my 
own opinion. Her plan for SkyClan could be the perfect solution. She couldn't have held her tongue 
even 1f she'd wanted to. Bramblestar had implied that a good deputy would have kept quiet. She 
shook out her pelt. Was that what Bramblestar thought—that she wasn't a good deputy? Hurt 
sharpened its claws on her heart once again. She closed her eyes. Chasing thoughts like this wasn't 
going to help her feel better. 

“Bristlepaw! Flippaw! Look what I caught!” Thriftpaw’s mew surprised Squirrelflight, and at his 
littermate’s call, Flippaw looked up from the mouse he was eating. Bristlepaw stuck her head out of 
the ferns, her eyes wide. 

The dark gray she-cat was standing at the camp entrance, Dewnose beside her and a small rabbit 
at her paws. 

Bristlepaw dashed from the ferns and skidded to a halt beside her sister. “It’s almost as big as 
you!" She sniffed excitedly at the rabbit as Flippaw hurried over. 

“Did you catch it by yourself?" Flippaw looked impressed. 

Thriftpaw glanced at her paws. “Not exactly by myself.” 

Dewnose purred beside her. “Thriftpaw tracked it and caught it. I just helped with the killing 
bite." 

“Can we eat it now?" Thriftpaw asked. 

“Put it on the fresh-kill pile and take something smaller," Dewnose told her. “We can share the 
rabbit later with the elders." 

Thriftpaw glanced toward the heap of prey at the edge of the clearing. The long body of a weasel 
lay on top. Her eyes widened. “Is that a weasel?" 

Flippaw nodded. “Mousewhisker caught it this morning.” 

“But weasels are vicious," Thriftpaw mewed, her eyes widening. 

“That one was," Flippaw told her. *Mousewhisker's in the medicine-cat den right now covered in 
bites." 

Squirrelflight pricked her ears. Mousewhisker must have returned while she was in the elders’ 
den. *Is he badly hurt?" 

“T don't know,” Flippaw told her. 

Squirrelflight headed toward the medicine-cat den. 

“Imagine being wounded by prey,” Bristlepaw murmured. 

“Imagine being killed by prey!” Thriftpaw mewed. 

“Put your rabbit on the fresh-kill pile," Dewnose told her again. “When you've had something to 
eat, we’re going to practice battle moves.” 

Squirrelflight glanced back at the gray-and-white tom. “Can you take a look at the elders’ den 
when you're finished? The roof needs mending." 

“Sure.” Dewnose swished his tail as Squirrelflight ducked through the brambles that trailed over 
the entrance to the medicine-cat den. Inside, cool shadows swathed the wide stretch of earth. Herb 
scents filled the air. Her littermate, Leafpool, glanced up warmly as Squirrelflight entered. “Well, 
hello." 

Mousewhisker sat stiffly in the middle of the den. Leafpool returned to lapping ointment into his 
wounds. 


“Are you badly hurt?” Squirrelflight crossed the den and stopped beside them. “I see Leafpool is 
taking good care of you.” 

“She is. And it’s just a few bites,” Mousewhisker told her. 

“There are a couple of deep ones," Leafpool reported. “But Гуе cleaned them and put plenty of 
herbs on them. They should heal quickly.” She looked earnestly at the gray-and-white tom. “But if you 
get any fever or the pain keeps you awake tonight, come straight to me.” 

Mousewhisker nodded. 

“Where did you catch the weasel?" Squirrelflight was curious. Weasels were rare in this part of 
the forest. 

“Near the beeches,” Mousewhisker told her. 

Squirrelflight realized she'd been wondering if he'd caught it on ThunderClan’s strip of 
moorland. “Not the moor?" 

Mousewhisker looked at her, puzzled. “Why would I be hunting on the moor? That's WindClan 
territory." 

“The stretch beyond the stream is ThunderClan territory now," she reminded him, twitching her 
tail in irritation. 

“Oh, yes." He sounded surprised. “I keep forgetting. It feels so unnatural to hunt in the open." 

Squirrelflight stifled a sigh. Harestar had been right about the wasted land. “We all need to learn,” 
Squirrelflight prompted. 

“Of course." Mousewhisker peered distractedly at a bite mark on his shoulder. “I just hope 
hunting in the wind doesn't make us as stunted as WindClan warriors." 

Leafpool used her paw to fold the leaf she'd mixed the ointment on. “WindClan warriors are only 
smaller than us because their ancestors were smaller, not because of the wind." 

Mousewhisker sniffed. “So what made their ancestors small?" 

Leafpool shrugged. “Only StarClan knows." 

“Tt was probably the wind.” 

Squirrelflight caught her sister's eye and swallowed back a purr. Was Leafpool going to argue 
with that kind of logic? 

“Go and rest in the sunshine," Leafpool told Mousewhisker, changing the subject. “Т?П dry out 
your wounds." 

“Thanks, Leafpool." Mousewhisker dipped his head and headed for the entrance. 

“Wait,” Squirrelflight called after him. Mousewhisker turned to her questioningly. “Have you 
patrolled the edge of ThunderClan territory lately, beyond the abandoned Twolegplace?" 

Mousewhisker frowned. “I was up that way a quarter moon ago with Larksong and Cherryfall." 

“Do you know what the land's like beyond the border?" Her fur pricked along her spine. 
Bramblestar wouldn't be happy if he knew she was asking these questions. “Are there any strays 
living there, or foxes?" 

"Occasionally there are unfamiliar scents on the border. But if there are strays or foxes up there, 
they're smart enough to know not to cross into our territory." 

"Thanks, Mousewhisker." Squirrelflight nodded at him, and the gray-and-white tom pushed his 
way out of the den. 

"What was that about?" Leafpool was staring at her. 

Squirrelflight sat down and curled her tail over her paws, relieved to have a moment alone with 
her sister. “Last night's meeting with Harestar was tense." 

“I heard that they want the borders to go back to the way they were before SkyClan.” Leafpool’s 


gaze was dark with worry. 

“Not exactly," Squirrelflight explained. “No cat wants to deprive SkyClan of a home. But the new 
borders have left ShadowClan with land they can't hunt. And we have a strip of moorland that, 
clearly, we hardly use." 

Leafstar's pelt ruffled. "But we can't go back to our old borders. What would happen to 
SkyClan?" 

"That's why I was asking Mousewhisker about the area beyond the abandoned Twolegplace. It 
might make great territory for SkyClan." 

Leafpool looked curious. “Would they move there?" 

“They might if they knew it was good land." Squirrelflight looked at her sister hopefully. 

Leafpool didn't look convinced. “It could work, but does Bramblestar know about this idea?" 

Squirrelflight puffed out her chest. “I suggested it at the meeting last night." 

“You did?" Leafpool's ears twitched nervously. 

“T had to. It would solve all our problems," Squirrelflight insisted. 

Leafpool frowned. “I really don't think SkyClan should have to move. They've been through 
enough. Can't the Clans get used to their new borders?" 

“We all need more land," Squirrelflight pointed out, swallowing back frustration. She'd been 
hoping Leafpool would agree with her. 

“What does Bramblestar think?" 

*He thinks SkyClan should stay where they are." 

“I'm glad someone's on their side." Leafpool picked up the folded leaf between her teeth and 
carried it to the back of the den. She dropped it beside the pool. “ShadowClan has been trying to push 
out SkyClan since they got here. Now RiverClan and WindClan are joining in. I know change is 
difficult, but the Clans aren't even trying to change. They seem to want everything the same as it used 
to be. Fm surprised StarClan hasn't said something." 

Squirrelflight pricked her ears. “Will you ask them next time you're at the Moonpool?" 

Leafpool shrugged. “I can, but I don't know if they'll answer. They've been silent since the storm. 
We figured it was because they had nothing to tell us." She glanced away, frowning. “Now I'm not so 
sure." 

Squirrelflight tensed. “Do you think their silence means something?" 

“I only know that it’s unnerving touching my nose to the Moonpool and seeing nothing but the 
moon's reflection." She padded back to Squirrelflight. “You said Bramblestar thinks SkyClan 
shouldn't move.” She tipped her head enquiringly. “Did you argue about it?” 

Squirrelflight looked away. “What makes you think we argued?" 

"[ saw you come out of the warriors' den this morning." Leafpool gazed sympathetically at her 
sister. 

“He says I should have backed him up." 

“Tt might have been best to discuss it with him first. SkyClan needs time to find their paws and 
establish themselves beside the lake. I’m not sure moving them now would be a good idea.” 

“But 1f they stay where they are, these tensions over the borders will only grow.” Why couldn't 
Leafpool and Bramblestar see what would happen if they didn't solve the land dispute quickly? 
“Tigerstar’s like a fox with a bone once he's got an idea in his head.” 

“True,” Leafpool conceded. “But do you think Tigerstar—or any of them—will let go of this idea 
now? What 1f SkyClan decides it doesn't want to move?" She frowned. *No wonder Bramblestar's 
upset. You've stirred up quite a bee's nest." 


Squirrelflight swished her tail irritably. “We didn't just argue over moving SkyClan.” She wanted 
to tell Leafpool the whole story, but she hesitated. The subject of kits was a tricky one with Leafpool. 
Many moons before, she’d had a litter of kits with Crowfeather, a WindClan warrior. Because 
Leafpool was a medicine cat, forbidden from taking a mate, and because the kit's father was in 
another Clan, Squirrelflight had agreed to raise the kits with Bramblestar as though they were her 
own. Those kits were Jayfeather, Lionblaze, and Hollyleaf, and Squirrelflight had loved them as much 
as any mother could. But she knew 1t must be hard for Leafpool to understand her desire for another 
litter. She had already had the chance to be a mother twice, something Leafpool could never 
experience. 

Her littermate stared at her, her eyes glittering with curiosity. “What is it, then?” 

Squirrelflight let out her breath. Never mind the awkwardness—Leafpool will understand. And 
she needed reassurance. “Не said he doesn't want more kits as much as I do.” 

Leafpool’s eyes rounded with sympathy. “Oh, Squirrelflight.” 

Squirrelflight nodded. “I know. It's—" Selfish of me, she was about to say. Because I’ve already 
mothered two litters. But Leafpool didn’t let her finish. 

“That must have hurt,” Leafpool said softly, dipping her head. “I know how much you want 
another litter.” 

“Bramblestar says he’s getting old and that the Clan is enough responsibility.” She trailed into 
silence, the memory of the argument stinging her afresh. 

“Pm sure he'd love kits if you had them,” Leafpool mewed. “But I can see how he finds the 
thought overwhelming." 

Squirrelflight blinked at her. “Do you think I'm being unreasonable, wanting more kits? I know 
lac 

“No, of course not. But you already have Alderheart and Sparkpelt. And, in a way, Jayfeather and 
Lionblaze." 

Squirrelflight nodded, but her heart ached. “They don't need me anymore." 

"They'll always need you," Leafpool mewed. “Just not in the same way as when they were kits. 
And the Clan needs you, doesn’t it?” 

“Tt’s not the same.” 

Leafpool stretched her muzzle forward and touched her nose to Squirrelflight’s cheek. “I’m sorry 
you're hurting. Pm sure Bramblestar wants kits. Just give him time.” 

“What if there isn’t time?" Squirrelflight felt suddenly weary. “What if I’m too old?” 

“You’re not too old.” Leafpool pulled away. “Don’t rush so much, Squirrelflight.” She gazed 
fondly at her sister. “Stop trying to sort out every problem at once. One day you'll have more kits, and 
Bramblestar will forget he ever had doubts. And the Clans will sort out their borders. Slow down and 
let things happen naturally." 

Squirrelflight dipped her head, grateful that Leafpool was her sister. She was gentle and wise, and 
she always tried to understand. But Squirrelflight knew they were looking at the border dispute from 
different angles. Leafpool was a medicine cat—of course she thought the new borders should remain. 
She didn't understand that warriors valued hunting land too much to let it go to waste without a fight. 

And as far as kits went... Leafpool didn't understand what it felt like not to be needed. Leafpool 
was needed every day. The Clan depended on her, sometimes for their lives. It was different for 
Squirrelflight. Even as deputy, she was just one warrior among many. 

She got to her paws. “Thanks for listening, Leafpool." She felt her sister's gaze follow her as she 
padded out of the den. Hunger tugged in her belly, not for food but for something she couldn't quite 


put her paw on. She needed to do something. She couldn’t just accept the way things were. She 
headed for the camp entrance. Last night's meeting still nagged at her. There must be some way to 
convince Bramblestar that her idea was the perfect solution to this new disagreement among the 
Clans. She remembered Leafstar's hesitation; the SkyClan leader had looked thoughtful for a moment 
before she’d squared her shoulders, as though she was weighing the possibility of moving. Perhaps 
there was a way to persuade her. If Squirrelflight could approach her quietly, without the eyes of the 
other Clans, she might be able to make her consider the idea seriously. Mousewhisker had said that 
there were few signs of danger beyond the border. If she took this information to Leafstar, 1t might be 
enough to change the SkyClan leader's mind. 

Lifting her tail, Squirrelflight marched out of the ThunderClan camp and headed toward the 
SkyClan border. She knew what she must do. She had to speak to Leafstar. 





CHAPTER 3 


> 


Squirrelflight fluffed out her pelt as she neared the SkyClan border and peered between the trees. 
She’d wait for an escort. There was no point rubbing Leafstar’s für the wrong way by crossing 
SkyClan territory without permission. The heat of the morning had given way to dampness as clouds 
rolled in from the mountains. Squirrelflight could smell rain, and the first drops began to fall as she 
waited, straining to glimpse movement beyond the SkyClan border. 

She heard ferns rustle and snapped her gaze toward the sound. Black-and-white fur flashed 
between the fronds, and Palesky, a SkyClan warrior, slid into the open, warily tasting the air. “I smell 
ThunderClan.” 

Tree padded out beside her. We're near the border, right?” 

Squirrelflight lifted her tail. “Tree!” 

Palesky turned first. “Squirrelflight? What are you doing here?" As Tree turned around, she 
stalked toward Squirrelflight. Around them, raindrops splashed onto the leaves. 

Tree hurried after her. “How”s Twigbranch?" he called. 

"She's fine." Squirrelflight's mew rang through the trees. She glanced over her shoulder, 
wondering 1f ThunderClan warriors were near. She didn't want to be seen talking to the SkyClan cats. 
Lowering her voice, she called more softly. “I want to speak with Leafstar.” 

Palesky reached her, narrowing her eyes. Squirrelflight could see curiosity in her gaze, but the 
black-and-white she-cat dipped her head respectfully and didn't ask any questions. Sometimes it 5 
useful to be a Clan deputy, Squirrelflight thought. “She”s in the camp. ГІІ take you to her.” 

Tree looked surprised. “But Squirrelflight knows where the camp is. She can find it herself and 
we can finish our patrol." 

Palesky flicked her tail impatiently. ^We can't let cats from other Clans wander around our 
territory unguarded." 

“But she's alone.” Tree looked unconvinced. “What harm could she do?" 

"She might be a spy, or have come to hunt our prey," Palesky told him. She looked quickly at 
Squirrelflight. “I know you aren't,” she added respectfully. “But we must follow the rules.” 

“The rules make no sense," Tree objected. “But fine, we'll do it your way." 

Squirrelflight glanced at him, amused. Once a loner, always a loner. Would Tree ever understand 
the warrior code? 

Palesky nodded for Squirrelflight to cross the border. Squirrelflight scanned the forest once more 
for ThunderClan warriors, then padded into SkyClan territory and followed Palesky toward the 
SkyClan camp. 

“How are your kits?" she asked Tree as he fell in beside her. 

The yellow tom purred proudly. “They’re growing fast.” 

Frecklewish had reported at the last Gathering that Violetshine had given birth to Tree's kits. Her 
sister, Twigbranch, had been overjoyed and had asked to be allowed to visit her new kin, but 
Bramblestar had been reluctant to let one of his warriors foster such close ties. “Violetshine is 
SkyClan. Twigbranch is ThunderClan," he had said. “No good can come from such divided 
loyalties." 

Squirrelflight glanced at Tree as she followed Palesky through a clearing thick with brambles. 


“Twigbranch is dying to see them, but I think she'll have to wait until their first Gathering.” 

“Violetshine can’t wait to show them off.” Tree”s eyes shone. 

The rain was falling more heavily now, drumming on the canopy and dripping into the forest. 
Squirrelflight shook drops from her pelt. Her heart quickened as they neared the camp. Would 
Leafstar be willing to listen to her? 

The camp wall showed ahead and Palesky hurried forward. “Stay with her, Tree,” she called over 
her shoulder. “T11 warn Leafstar she's coming." 

Warn? Squirrelflight’s ears twitched nervously. “I only want to speak with her,” she called as 
Palesky disappeared through the entrance tunnel. 

“What do you want to speak to her about?" Tree asked. 

Squirrelflight lifted her chin. She wasn't used to being questioned by warriors. You'll hear when 
Leafstar wants you to hear." 

Tree glanced at her but said nothing and escorted her into camp. 

Violetshine looked up as she entered. The young queen was sharing a mouse with Reedclaw 
beside the nursery, ignoring the rain dripping from their ears. Bellaleaf sheltered in the nursery 
entrance, lapping her swollen belly. Four kits were splashing noisily through the puddles already 
forming at the edge of the clearing. None of them were more than three moons old. The two smaller 
kits—one black-and-white and one yellow—stopped when they saw Tree and hurtled across the 
clearing to meet him. 

The black-and-white she-kit reached him first. “Tree!” 

Squirrelflight hopped out of the way as the other kit caught up and began weaving eagerly around 
Tree's legs. 

“Hi, Rootkit.” He cuffed the yellow tom-kit fondly with his paw, then nosed the black-and-white 
she-kit. “How’s it going, Needlekit?” 

“Can you play with us now?” squeaked Needlekit. 

“Violetshine says she’s tired.” Rootkit looked like a tiny version of Tree. 

Tree purred. “I can play with you after our visitor has left.” 

Needlekit looked up at Squirrelflight, her eyes widening. “Who are you?” 

“Tm Squirrelflight.” Her heart ached with longing. How much longer would she have to wait to 
have her own kits? “Гуе come to speak with Leafstar.” She glanced at the two larger kits, left behind 
in the puddles. She hadn’t realized SkyClan had so many kits. They would need all the territory they 
could get soon. “Who are they?” 

“Reedclaw’s kits,” Tree told her. “Kitekit and Turtlekit.” 

"They're going to be apprentices a whole moon before us.” Needlekit looked indignant. “But 
Frecklewish says we're growing really fast. We'll be as big as them soon.” 

Rootkit was sniffing Squirrelflight warily. “You don't smell like us," he mewed. 

“I don't smell like SkyClan,” Squirrelflight told him. “I’m from ThunderClan.” 

Rootkit pricked his ears. “Like Twigbranch?" 

“Yes.” Squirrelflight purred. Violetshine must have told them about their ThunderClan kin. She 
gazed around the clearing. Harrybrook and Plumwillow were watching her from the other side of the 
camp. Frecklewish glanced up from the herbs she was sorting outside the medicine-cat den. 
Dewspring and Nectarsong stared at her from beside the fresh-kill pile. 

Macgyver padded sleepily from the warriors” den, his nose twitching. “I smell ThunderClan.” 

Needlekit bounded toward him, her black chest puffed out. “It’s Squirrelflight. She's come to 
visit.” 


As Macgyver turned his watchful gaze on Squirrelflight, Palesky ducked out of a den, and Leafstar 
and Hawkwing slid out after her, their eyes dark with suspicion. 

“Squirrelflight,” Leafstar greeted her coldly, stopping a tail-length away. “What do you want? 
Where is Bramblestar?” 

“T was hoping to talk to you.” Squirrelflight shifted her paws as the SkyClan leader glared at her. 
“Alone.” 

Hawkwing narrowed his eyes. “I think you said enough at the meeting." 

“But I didn't," Squirrelflight meowed quickly. “If I had, things might be different. I just want to 
see if we can come to an agreement." The curious stares of the SkyClan warriors, watching from 
around the clearing, seemed to burn through her pelt. “Perhaps we could talk somewhere private.” 

Leafstar didn't move. Rain ran along her whiskers. 

Squirrelflight lowered her voice. “I don't want to put ideas into the heads of your Clanmates.” 

Leafstar snorted. “You seemed happy to put them into the heads of the other Clans." 

“Г т sorry.” Squirrelflight dipped her head. “Perhaps I shouldn't have spoken out, but I was trying 
to keep the peace." 

“At our expense, as usual," muttered Hawkwing. 

“Just let me speak to you." Squirrelflight gazed imploringly at Leafstar. Had she imagined the 
SkyClan leader's moment of hesitation at the meeting? Perhaps Leafstar had never even considered 
moving SkyClan to new territory. Her breath caught in her throat. But she has to! 

Leafstar flicked her tail. *Okay." She jerked her muzzle toward her den. *But I can't spare much 
time. I have a Clan to take care of.” 

Squirrelflight hurried through the rain and waited at the den entrance for Leafstar to go in first. 

*Join us, Hawkwing," Leafstar ordered as she nosed her way inside. 

Needlekit blinked at Squirrelflight. *Leafstar doesn't like you much, does she?" 

“Not at the moment," Squirrelflight told her softly. “But I hope I can change her mind." 

She followed Leafstar inside, Hawkwing at her heels. 

It was dry inside the den and stuffy from the morning's heat. Squirrelflight wanted to shake the 
rain from her fur but didn't dare. She'd soak Leafstar and Hawkwing. Instead she blinked the 
raindrops from her eyes, ignoring the dampness seeping deeper into her pelt. *I know I am asking a 
lot of you," she began. “You have suffered more than most Clans, and you've been without a real 
home for too long. But Harestar was right about land being wasted. I think we undertook these new 
borders with the best of intentions, but even if we learn to hunt the moorland we were given, 
ShadowClan will never fish in their marshes, and RiverClan will have to watch prey that once 
belonged to them go uncaught. We simply can't adapt to this new territory, and that makes the new 
borders unworkable." 

Hawkwing stood as still as rock. *How is that our problem?" 

“Т?П be everyone's problem eventually. The Clans are growing, and not every season is as kind 
as greenleaf. When Clans go hungry, battles start. The peace we have now won't survive a prey- 
scarce leaf-bare 1f WindClan and RiverClan are forced to watch territory that was once theirs go to 
waste.” She saw a flicker of interest in Leafstar's stony gaze. “It was the best solution we could come 
up with at the time. And it is not fair to ask you to move again," Squirrelflight meowed earnestly. “I 
know that. Every cat knows that. But it might be the only way to keep a lasting peace." 

“You want us to leave the lake," Leafstar growled. 

“No!” Squirrelflight thrust her muzzle forward. “You must never leave the lake. You belong here. 
But the territory beyond the abandoned Twolegplace might be a great home for you. If it is, this 


quarrel over land will be ended before it starts.” 

Leafstar didn’t move. “If it’s so important,” she meowed icily, “why are you here and not your 
leader?” 

Squirrelflight felt the sting of her words but didn't react. Leafstar was right to be angry. 
“Bramblestar doesn't know I'm here,” she admitted. If she was going to win the SkyClan leader's 
trust, she needed to be honest. “He thinks you shouldn't move. But if he could see what a great piece 
of territory you'd be moving to, he'd have to admit that it’s the best plan we have.” 

"You're going behind his back?" Leafstar looked surprised. 

“Tm trying to find a way to convince him." Squirrelflight blinked at the SkyClan leader earnestly. 

Hawkwing narrowed his eyes. *And you want us to help you?" 

“Т?П help SkyClan too. It'll help all the Clans." Squirrelflight stared at the SkyClan deputy. 
Surely he could see that! “Why should five Clans try to live on four Clans’ land when there's plenty to 
spare on our borders?" 

“We don't know it's to spare," Leafstar grunted. “It might be home to rogues or foxes, or 
Twolegs." 

“That's why we need to go there.” She gazed at Leafstar. “You and me. We could take a look at it; 
then you can decide. If it's not safe for SkyClan, no one will make you move." 

Hawkwing’s pelt ruffled along his spine. “You can't explore unknown territory," he told Leafstar. 
“It's too dangerous. Let me send a warrior patrol—" 

“No.” Leafstar cut him off. “The Clan mustn't know that we're even thinking about this until I 
know it’s a real possibility.” 

Hope flashed in Squirrelflight's heart. “So you'll come with me to look at the territory?” She 
searched Leafstar’s gaze, relieved when she saw curiosity there. 

"[ don't like that you're deceiving Bramblestar,” Leafstar meowed. “But that's your issue, not 
mine.” Squirrelflight ignored the worry sparking at the edge of her thoughts. She was too excited to 
hear Leafstar go on. “ГІЇ come with you and see this land for myself and, if it's not suitable, SkyClan 
will not move and we'll never speak of it again." 

“T understand." Squirrelflight whisked her tail. “And I agree. SkyClan should only live where you 
can thrive." 

Leafstar nodded to Hawkwing. “Tell the Clan that I’m escorting Squirrelflight to the border. ГІЇ 
return as soon as I can." 

“You may not be back for a while," Squirrelflight warned her. “It’s a long way, and we'll need to 
investigate the territory thoroughly before you come to a decision." 

“If Pm not back tonight,” Leafstar told Hawkwing, “cover for me." 

“What do I tell them?" Hawkwing mewed, his pelt bristling anxiously. 

Leafstar narrowed her eyes, clearly thinking. After a moment she spoke. “Tell them I’m visiting 
each of the Clan leaders to get to know them better.” 

Hawkwing flicked his tail. *I don't like this. You're putting yourself in danger. Let me come with 
you, at least." 

Leafstar shook her head. “I need you here to take care of the Clan." 

“Then let me send Sagenose with you, or Plumwillow.” 

“No.” Leafstar was firm. "There's no point starting rumors in the Clan. And if there are any 
dangers to be faced, I have more lives to spare than my warriors." 

Respect swelled in Squirrelflight's chest. Leafstar was ready to sacrifice her own lives to protect 
her Clan. She dipped her head as the SkyClan leader padded past her and slid out of the den. “ГІІ 





take care of her," she promised Hawkwing. 

Hawkwing's eyes were dark. *I hope you'll take care of each other. I don't like the thought of 
telling Bramblestar that something bad has happened to you." 

Squirrelflight hesitated. Would Bramblestar forgive her if she never came back? Would he care? 
She padded from the den. Rain was pounding the camp. The kits were gone, the clearing empty. The 
SkyClan cats had retreated to their dens. She could see eyes flashing from the shadowy entrances as 
they watched her. Leafstar was already heading toward the bramble tunnel, and she hurried to catch 
up. 

Outside the camp, the scents of moss and prey pressed around her, sharpened by the rain. The 
smell would be washed away soon, but for now it hung tantalizingly in the air. For a moment, 
Squirrelflight was tugged back to the day she was made an apprentice. She remembered standing 
beside Leafpaw as forest scents spiraled into the camp. Her heart seemed to shiver with excitement. 
She'd dreamed of being leader as a kit, and now she was thinking like one. She puffed out her chest. 
Once again, she was heading into unknown territory. 


Squirrelflight's excitement ebbed as she and Leafstar crossed into ThunderClan land and made for 
the distant border. Rain dripped through the canopy and seeped deeper into her fur. But the rain 
wasn't making her shiver. She wanted to see the new territory, but she knew she was being deceitful. 
She was sneaking out, knowing that Bramblestar would not approve. What if a Clanmate saw her? 
How would she explain what she was doing leading Leafstar through their territory? Guilt pricked at 
her belly and quickened her paw steps as she led Leafstar along the rise, which curved toward the 
abandoned Twoleg nest. 

“Mousewhisker says that rogues and foxes rarely cross the border from the new territory," 
Squirrelflight told Leafstar. 

“That doesn't mean there aren't any beyond it." Leafstar narrowed her eyes against the rain. 

Squirrelflight tried to gauge Leafstar's mood. Was the SkyClan leader keeping an open mind about 
the land? Or would she find any excuse to object to it? *You'll be closer to the mountains," she 
encouraged. *"There'll be plenty of prey." 

“And more hawks to compete with." Leafstar ducked under a trailing branch. “I hope it's not too 
exposed." 

Squirrelflight hopped over the branch. “It might be good to be away from the dampness of the 
lake." 

The stone walls of the crumbling Twolegplace showed among the trees. She veered along a trail 
that would take them around it, instinctively wary of anything that had once attracted Twolegs. As she 
leaped across an old streambed, she heard voices. Stiffening, she tasted the air. Through the rain she 
smelled ThunderClan. A patrol? Her paws tingling guiltily, she looked at Leafstar. “Someone”s 
coming," she hissed. “Hide!” 

Leafstar's eyes rounded. She ducked quickly behind an oak, snatching her wet tail from view as 
Squirrelflight turned to meet her Clanmates. Her heart quickened as she smelled Sparkpelt's scent. 

Orange fur flashed through the undergrowth, and Sparkpelt slid from between the dripping ferns, 
Larksong at her heels. The young warrior clearly hadn't smelled her mother's scent. *Lionblaze said 
that Harestar is causing trouble." Sparkpelt's voice echoed between the trees. 

“That's a refreshing change,” Larksong answered. “It’s usually Tigerstar who starts arguments 
among the Clans. Did he say what it was about?" 

“He said it was best not to start rumors," Sparkpelt told him. “In which case, why say anything at 


all?” 

Squirrelflight wondered whether to hide beside Leafstar. It would be easier ifthey weren’t seen. 
But what if Sparkpelt or Larksong spotted them? What if they picked up their scent? It would be 
uncomfortable to be caught hiding, especially from her own daughter. Best to face them head on. 
“Hi!” She lifted her tail and hurried through the rain to meet Sparkpelt, whose ears pricked with 
surprise. 

“Squirrelflight! What are you doing here?” 

Squirrelflight wondered what to tell them. “Pm checking on something.” Larksong scanned the 
forest warily. Squirrelflight could see him tasting the air. “Why are you two this far from camp?” 

“We”re hunting," Larksong told her. “It’s been a while since anyone hunted this part of the forest. 
We thought we might find some juicy prey.” 

Sparkpelt was eyeing her mother curiously. “What are you checking on?” 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws, hoping that the rain had slicked down her ruffled fur. “I came to 
look at the border.” 

“Which border?” Sparkpelt glanced around. They were deep in ThunderClan territory. 

“The far edge of our land,” Squirrelflight explained. 

“Why?” Sparkpelt frowned. 

Squirrelflight hesitated. It felt wrong to go behind Bramblestar’s back, and worse to lie to her 
own daughter. Her tail drooped. She couldn’t do it. “I want Leafstar to see the land outside,” she 
confessed. She jerked her nose toward the tree where Leafstar was hiding. "She's here with me.” 

Leafstar padded out, her gaze wary. 

“I knew I smelled SkyClan!” Larksong's hackles lifted. 

Sparkpelt looked puzzled. “What's going on? Why does Leafstar need to see the land beyond our 
border?" 

Squirrelflight lifted her chin. *I had an idea at the leaders' meeting. I wanted to stop the Clans 
from fighting over land again, so I suggested SkyClan move to new territory." She looked toward the 
border. “The land there is unclaimed. It might make a good home for SkyClan, but we're going to 
check it out first. We need to make sure it's not overrun with rogues or Twolegs." 

Larksong frowned. Wouldn't it be safer to send a patrol?” 

Squirrelflight hesitated. *Bramblestar isn't sure about the plan," she explained at last, deciding to 
stretch the truth a bit, *so I brought Leafstar to see it. If she likes it, she can confirm to Bramblestar 
that she wants to move SkyClan there." 

“I haven't agreed to anything yet," Leafstar grunted. 

“No,” Squirrelflight mewed quickly. “Which is why I don't want any cat to know about this." 

“Not even Bramblestar?" Sparkpelt asked. 

“Not even him,” Squirrelflight answered, glancing awkwardly at Leafstar to gauge her reaction. 
The SkyClan leader was just watching her, clear-eyed. “If the Clans find out what we’re doing, it 
could create expectations that might never be met. I don’t want Leafstar to feel forced into anything.” 

“But what if something happens to you?” Sparkpelt’s eyes glittered with worry. 

“We’ll be careful,” Squirrelflight promised, leaning forward to rub her cheek against Sparkpelt’s. 
“Don’t worry. lll be home soon.” 

“When, exactly?” Larksong gazed doubtfully toward the border. 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws. It seemed unlikely that they’d be able to explore the new territory 
before dark, and the thought of spending the night in a strange forest, far from her Clan, made her 
nervous. But she had to see this through. “Tomorrow,” she mewed decisively. 


“Tomorrow? ” Sparkpelt looked alarmed. “But Bramblestar will be worried if you don't come 
home tonight. I can't act like I don't know anything.” 

“You have to.” Squirrelflight looked at her urgently. “One night of worry to keep peace among the 
Clans. Surely you see that it's worth it?” 

Sparkpelt's ears twitched nervously. “I guess." 

“ГИ be home as soon as possible," Squirrelflight told her. “But we have to do this properly. We 
need to cover as much of the land as we can." 

Leafstar was watching, her eyes dark. “I won't ask SkyClan to move unless I’m sure about where 
we're going." 

Sparkpelt looked at them both, then nodded. “Okay,” she meowed. “We’ll keep your secret. . . for 
now." 

Relief washed over Squirrelflight's pelt. “Thank you.” She nuzzled Sparkpelt's ear gratefully. “I 
promise I'll be careful.” She fluffed her fur against the rain and turned toward the border. Glancing at 
Leafstar, she lifted her tail. “Ready?” 

“Yes.” Leafstar looked determined, her pelt spiked with raindrops. 

“See you soon.” With a quick nod to Sparkpelt and Larksong, Squirrelflight struck out past the 
Twoleg nest. 

The forest grew thicker as they crossed the border, the slope beyond steepening sharply until they 
found themselves scrambling between rocks. The earth had turned to mud here and was slippery 
underpaw, but the rain was easing. Squirrelflight sniffed the air. The musky odor of Clan markers 
faded and disappeared behind them. Fresh prey-scents mingled with the smell of bark and earth. Pines 
clustered around them, blocking out the sun. Out of breath, Squirrelflight paused and looked up the 
slope, disappointed when she saw that trees hid the top. 

Leafstar pushed past her, her ears flat with determination. Squirrelflight hurried at her heels as the 
SkyClan leader zigzagged between the rocks. At last, the slope began to flatten once more. The trees 
thinned, and they broke from the forest and found themselves on an open hilltop. As they paused at the 
peak, sunshine beamed through the clouds and lit the landscape ahead. 

Squirrelflight caught her breath. Mounds rose before them, giving way to rocky mountain slopes in 
the distance. Forest sprouted here and there, opening into swaths of land where grass covered the 
rolling hills like a pelt. Squirrelflight could see streams cutting through the valleys like claw marks. 
Cascades of boulders clustered in ravines. “That looks like a good hunting ground." Squirrelflight 
nodded toward a sunny hillside. “I think I can see rabbit holes.” 

Leafstar didn't comment. She was staring at the view, her nose twitching. Fresh mountain scent 
mingled with forest and water, and the smell of prey hung heavy in the air. Squirrelflight scanned the 
hillsides for signs of Twolegs, but there were no stone nests here. A Thunderpath cut its way along 
one edge, heading for the mountain, but no monsters patrolled it. 

Hope welled in Squirrelflight's chest. It seemed like good territory. She glanced at Leafstar, trying 
to hide her excitement. This had to be Leafstar's decision. 

Leafstar narrowed her eyes. “Let’s take a closer look.” The SkyClan leader crossed the hilltop 
and headed into the valley below. Brambles rose around them, cut by sandy tracks and growing 
thicker as they neared the bottom. Had Leafstar noticed the prey trails? What else could have carved 
those pathways? Squirrelflight fell in behind her as she veered onto a steep path down. At the bottom 
a stream chattered over a stony bed. Beyond it, woodland reached the bank. The stream was shallow 
enough to wade across, and Leafstar led the way. 

Cold water swirled around Squirrelflight's paws. She was glad to hop out the other side and 


follow Leafstar into the woods. There were wider tracks through the undergrowth here, and 
Squirrelflight’s fur bristled nervously as she smelled a familiar scent. Other cats had been here. 
Loners or rogues? She tasted the air. The scent was faint, almost washed away now, and there was 
no sign of movement between the trees. She glanced at Leafstar. The SkyClan leader’s pelt was slick 
from the rain, ruffled along her spine. Had Leafstar smelled the cat-scent too? 

Leafstar slowed as they headed deeper into the new territory, her whiskers twitching. 
Squirrelflight sensed her caution and moved closer to her, scanning the trees as they skirted a hillside 
and followed the woodland down into another valley. As they neared the bottom, the forest opened. 
Shrubs clustered on the far side, sheltering a wide stretch of grass that covered the valley floor. 
Squirrelflight felt sunshine break through the clouds to warm her pelt and shook out her fur, relieved 
that she*d be dry soon. “This would make a good place for a camp,” she murmured. 

“Look.” Leafstar nodded toward moss piled at the foot of a bush. Beside it, earth was scraped 
from beneath the branches to form a hollow around the trunk. 

Squirrelflight stiffened. “It looks like someone’s made a camp already.” She jerked her muzzle 
around, noticing gaps between branches and patches of flattened grass. Her pelt spiking, she sniffed 
the ground. Cats! She couldn't tell how many. The scent was no more than a trace; the rain had 
washed the place clean. “It smells like it’s been abandoned.” 

Leafstar's tail twitched. She looked around warily. “Why would they abandon this place?” she 
mewed. “They”ve taken a lot of trouble to make it their home.” 

Squirrelflight uncurled her claws, hoping Leafstar was wrong. Her heart quickened as a breeze 
whisked into the valley. It carried fresh cat-scents. 

Leafstar moved beside her, pelt bushing. “Some cat’s coming.” 

“T know.” Squirrelflight’s breath caught in her throat. She suddenly felt a long way from home. 

“Let's get out of here.” Leafstar turned and froze. 

Squirrelflight followed her gaze. A huge she-cat was staring at them from beside a dogwood. The 
cat’s long, fine gray fur was bushed out, and her eyes glittered with hostility. Squirrelflight's heart 
raced as the cat stalked toward them, growling. 

“We’re going to have to fight our way out,” she whispered to Leafstar. 

“I don’t know if we can.” Leafstar nodded to the brambles at the side of the valley as three more 
cats, each as large as the first, padded out. Four cats followed the gray cat from the dogwood, and 
three more slid from beneath a juniper bush on the other side of ће valley. “We’re surrounded." 





CHAPTER 4 


> 


The gray cat narrowed its eyes. “Why are you here?” 

The other cats moved closer, pelts bushed, eyes flashing menacingly. 

“We’re exploring. We didn't realize . . .” Squirrelflight's mew trailed away as she saw that the 
gray cat's belly was round. She was expecting kits! 

Leafstar shifted beside her. “We thought the camp was abandoned." 

“The rain had washed away your scent,” Squirrelflight mewed quickly. 

The gray queen exchanged glances with a young white she-cat near the brambles. As the white 
she-cat flicked her tail, her gaze flashed back to Squirrelflight. “You must have seen our tracks and 
our dens.” 

“Yes.” Leafstar leaned forward. “And we were just going to leave.” 

“But you said you thought this would be a good place to make camp.” The queen was still glaring 
at Squirrelflight. “Why?” 

“We were looking for new territory,” Squirrelflight told her. “We didn’t realize this land belonged 
to a Clan.” 

“A Clan?” The queen tipped her head. 

Leafstar growled. “Why are you explaining yourself to these cats?” she snapped at Squirrelflight. 

Squirrelflight looked at her. What else was she supposed to do? “They outnumber us, or hadn’t 
you noticed?” 

“I noticed." Anger glittered in Leafstar's gaze. “But they're rogues, not a Clan!” She turned back 
to the queen. “I’m Leafstar, leader of SkyClan.” 

“I'm Moonlight, and these are the Sisters.” The queen nodded toward her campmates. 

“We only came to find out if this land was empty,” Leafstar snarled. “Now that we know it isn't, 
we'll leave." She began to pad forward, but Moonlight hissed. The Sisters fanned out until every 
stretch of grass was covered. 

“Wait!” Squirrelflight swallowed back panic. They'd never be able to fight their way out of here. 
She looked imploringly at Moonlight. “We just want to go home." 

Moonlight's gaze flicked over her. “Are you one of the cats from the lake?" 

“Yes.” Had Moonlight and the Sisters been watching the Clans? 

“T didn't think you ever strayed past your scent markers," Moonlight meowed. 

“We don't, usually," Squirrelflight told her. “But as I explained, we're looking for territory." 

“And you think you're going to take this land?" Moonlight's eyes narrowed into hard slits. 

“We were just looking,” Leafstar growled. “But we don't need it. Keep your land." 

Moonlight didn't move. “Who says it's our land?” 

*You live here, don't you?" Leafstar shot back. 

"For now." She shook out her fur suddenly and sat down. Squirrelflight sensed the other cats 
relaxing around them. She let her fur smooth and glanced at Leafstar, hoping the SkyClan leader 
would do the same. These cats clearly didn't want to fight. Why provoke them? Moonlight lifted a 
paw and licked it. “We*re not like you lake cats.” She drew her paw over her ear. “We don't make 
boundaries or leave markers." 

“If you did,” Leafstar muttered, “we might have stayed away.” 


“True.” Moonlight nodded to the white cat, who padded to her side. Her snowy pelt was sleek 
and well-groomed, and she sat down noiselessly as Moonlight went on. “But other cats don’t show 
much interest in our land. They come and go; they hunt, then continue on their way. They leave us 
mostly in peace.” She licked a paw and washed her other ear. 

Squirrelflight wasn’t surprised that other cats left them alone. The Sisters were larger than Clan 
cats. Their broad shoulders and wide paws were intimidating, and she wondered if even a trained 
warrior could fight more than one of them. The three males she could make out seemed younger than 
the other cats and smaller, but they were sleek and well-muscled, as though they’d never suffered a 
harsh leaf-bare or gone to sleep with an empty belly. 

Leafstar looked around the camp, her gaze sharp. “You said you only live here for now. Are you 
going to stay long?” 

Squirrelflight pricked her ears. Leafstar sounded curious. Was she considering this territory? 

Moonlight followed the SkyClan leader”s gaze. “We’ll stay until my kits are ready to travel." 

Leafstar glanced at her belly. “Will you ever return?” 

“It's a good place for birthing,” Moonlight told her. “But if it’s occupied when we come back this 
way, we'll find someplace else.” She sounded unconcerned. 

Hope flashed beneath Squirrelflight's pelt. The Sisters didn't want this land, and Leafstar sounded 
interested in making it SkyClan's home. “Will you move SkyClan here?" she asked Leafstar. 

“It's good land," Leafstar told her. “Once Moonlight and her friends have moved on, I will send 
patrols to explore more and discuss a future here with my warriors." 

Squirrelflight's heart soared. Her plan had worked! She couldn't wait to tell Bramblestar. He'd 
see what a great idea it had been once he heard about the land and knew Leafstar was open to moving 
SkyClan there. She looked at Moonlight's belly again, trying to guess how long it would be until she 
had her kits. They would be ready to travel before leaf-bare. Surely the Clans could wait that long to 
redraw their borders? "Let's go back and share the news,” she meowed eagerly. 

“I don't want to tell the other leaders until I've made a definite decision." Leafstar's pelt rippled 
along her spine. 

“But once they know you're willing to think about moving, they'll be happy to live with the 
current borders for a few moons longer," Squirrelflight argued. 

Leafstar dug her claws into the damp grass. We're not announcing anything until we've checked 
out the whole territory and found it safe." 

Why was Leafstar being so stubborn? The peace of the Clans depended on SkyClan finding new 
territory. This was better land even than the forest. “But it's perfect!” 

Leafstar glared at her. “Why doesn't ThunderClan move here, then? We can go back to the Clans 
and suggest 1t—” 

“No cat is going anywhere." Moonlight was watching them, her tail twitching. 

Squirrelflight stiffened. The queen’s mew was determined. “What do you mean?” 

Moonlight shifted her weight. “I can't let you go back to your friends. Not yet. We don't want 
swarms of strange cats trekking through here." 

Leafstar's ears twitched. “We won't come back until you've left.” 

“We want to go home and tell our Clans that this land will be free soon," Squirrelflight added. 

Moonlight narrowed her eyes. “You’ve only just arrived, and already you're arguing about which 
Clan should take our home. Do you expect me to believe that you won't want to get your paws on it as 
soon as you can?" 

“We will respect your right to this territory until you're ready to move on," Squirrelflight 


promised. 

“You might,” Moonlight mewed. “But your campmates might not.” 

The white she-cat nodded. “We've heard enough about the Clans to know that when they see 
something they like, they believe they have a right to 1t. Now that you”ve discovered this land, your 
Clanmates will want to take 1t by force.” 

“ThunderClan would never do that!” Squirrelflight bristled. 

“Апа the others?" Moonlight gazed at her evenly. “Would they respect our right to be here too?" 

Squirrelflight hesitated. Would Tigerstar leave these cats alone? Was Harestar patient enough to 
wait? Would Mistystar deny her Clan if she thought there was something better for it? “We want this 
land for SkyClan," she meowed firmly. *And you already have the word of SkyClan's leader not to 
take it until you've left.” 

“We’ve learned not to invite trouble if we don’t have to.” Moonlight flicked her nose toward a 
den at the edge of the clearing. “You will sleep there until the time comes for us to move on.” 

“But our Clans will come looking for us,” Squirrel flight insisted. 

“Will they find you?” Moonlight glanced toward the end of the valley, where one hill rose into 
another. Squirrelflight realized how deep they’d ventured into this territory. And the forest was wet 
with rain heavy enough to have washed away their scent. She gazed toward the hilltops, feeling 
suddenly how small she was and far from home. 

Leafstar was frowning at the gray queen. “You can’t hold us here against our will.” 

Moonlight didn’t reply, but the other cats shifted around them, as though reminding Leafstar of 
their presence. 

Leafstar bared her teeth. 

“Stay calm,” Squirrelflight whispered. “They won’t be able to watch us all the time. We’ll be 
able to slip away.” 

The white she-cat padded around them, sniffing curiously. Leafstar gave a warning growl. 

“Quiet!” Moonlight’s mew was suddenly fierce. “Snow is our sister. Show her respect.” 

Leafstar’s grow] turned into a hiss. 

“Hush!” Squirrelflight nudged the SkyClan leader sharply. 

Snow stopped and stared at Leafstar, a threat in her eyes. She was big, with muscles visible even 
beneath her pelt. Leafstar held her gaze, refusing to be cowed. Snow stalked back to Moonlight’s 
side, her fur bristling. 

“Forgive Leafstar.” Squirrelflight ignored Leafstar’s sharp hiss. “She”s a warrior. We're not used 
to surrendering. But if you fear our Clanmates so much, we will stay as willing captives until you are 
ready to move on.” 

Moonlight dipped her head. “Thank you. You will be treated as our campmates.” She nodded to a 
tabby she-cat. “Tempest, bring food from the prey-hole for our visitors.” 

As the tabby padded to a large juniper bush and began digging between the roots, Squirrel flight 
surveyed the camp. The sun was sinking toward the hilltop, and shadow reached into the valley. She 
saw now how well the surrounding bushes hid the camp, so that anyone climbing down the side of the 
valley would see only undergrowth until they reached the bottom and pushed through to the grassy 
clearing. The dense bushes that lined the sides of the valley would make it easier to hide if she and 
Leafstar managed to slip away. And she knew Bramblestar would find them eventually, no matter how 
hidden the camp seemed. Her heart quickened. What would he think when he discovered that she’d 
gone behind his back and brought Leafstar here without his approval? Things were already tense 
between them. This would make it worse. She wondered, her paws pricking nervously, how long 


Sparkpelt would keep her secret before she told her father where they’d been heading. 

Moonlight’s campmates glanced at one another, as though unsure of what to do. Two of them sat 
down; the young toms padded to the edge of the grassy clearing and watched their captives while the 
others moved closer and murmured to one another, their inquisitive gazes flicking over Leafstar and 
Squirrelflight. 

Leafstar leaned toward Squirrelflight. “These cats are strange,” she hissed under her breath. 

“I don't think they want to hurt us." 

Leafstar snorted. “They”re holding us captive." 

Squirrelflight tried to keep her tone bright. “At least it looks like they're going to feed us." 

"[ guess," Leafstar conceded, her gaze flitting over the Sisters. “They don't look like they know 
what hunger is.” 

Squirrelflight saw Moonlight watching her and lifted her muzzle. “What's the hunting like here?" 
she asked the queen loudly. 

“You can see for yourself.” Moonlight nodded toward the tabby. 

Tempest dragged two fat mice from a hole beneath the juniper. She lifted them in her teeth and 
shook the earth from them with a sharp toss of her head. Then she padded across the grass and 
dropped the mice at Squirrelflight's paws. 

The mice smelled good, and Squirrelflight realized that she was hungry. She nodded to the tabby. 
“Thanks.” 

Moonlight stood up and flicked her tail toward the young toms. One darted toward the prey-hole 
and began fishing for more food. Another ducked behind a bush at the edge of the camp and dragged 
out a dead rabbit. The other cats slipped away and came back with more prey. Squirrelflight guessed 
that the group had been returning from a hunting patrol and dropped their catch outside the camp when 
they’d smelled intruders. The prey-hole must be where they stored prey left over from one day for the 
next. She wondered how the cats decided who ate yesterday’s prey and who ate fresh. A tortoiseshell 
carried two voles to Moonlight and laid them on the ground in front of her. She padded away as 
Moonlight nodded her thanks, and settled on the grass between two young ginger she-cats. 

Squirrelflight lowered herself onto her belly and pulled one of the mice close. “Eat,” she 
whispered to Leafstar. 

Leafstar ignored her, sitting straighter and staring at her captors. 

She hoped that the SkyClan leader wouldn't start a fight. Didn't she realize they only had to play 
along until they had the chance to slip away, or until their Clanmates came to free them? Why risk 
hurting another cat or getting hurt themselves? 

As she bit into her mouse, she watched the Sisters relax. They shared prey and tongues like 
Clanmates. Moonlight swallowed a mouthful of vole. Beside her, Snow was eating a shrew. With a 
sigh, the queen shifted onto her side to ease the weight away from her swollen belly. She blinked 
calmly at Squirrelflight. *I hope you will find your stay with us comfortable. It seems better to enjoy 
the company of others rather than resist it. The Sisters don't like violence, and we avoid it when we 
can." 

“The Clans avoid violence too, when possible," Squirrelflight told her. “Peace is better for every 
cat." 

Tempest had settled beside the young toms. She looked up from the mouse she was eating. “How 
long will it be before your Clan wonders where you are?" 

“A quarter moon at least," Squirrelflight told her. She guessed that Bramblestar would send a 
patrol sooner, but rescue would be easier if the Sisters weren't expecting it. 


Leafstar huffed beside her. “My Clan will be missing me already,” she meowed pointedly. 
"They'll send out a search party. It won't take long for them to find me.” 

As Squirrelflight swallowed back frustration, Tempest glanced at Moonlight, alarmed. “Perhaps 
we should let them go. We don't want trouble." 

Moonlight hooked up another vole with her claw. “There won't be trouble. Keeping these cats 
will send an important message to their Clans." 

The tabby-and-white tom beside Tempest frowned. “What message?" 

"That we don't fight easily, but we don't scare easily either," Moonlight told him. *And they're 
less likely to start anything if it might endanger their Clanmates’ safety." 

The tom scowled at Squirrelflight. *If they hurt us, we hurt you!" 

Moonlight blinked at him coolly. “Keep your claws sheathed, Stone." She glanced at Tempest. 
“Your kit reminds me of his father." 

Tempest's tail twitched self-consciously. *He's young, that's all." 

The tom looked like an apprentice, not yet fully grown, but old enough to be a skillful hunter and 
fighter. The tom beside him looked the same age. He was white with tabby splotches on his legs. 

"Are you brothers?" Squirrelflight asked. Stone nodded. 

“Гт Grass," his brother added. 

Squirrelflight looked at the only other tom in the group. He was moons younger than the other two 
—barely more than a kit—and ginger, like the she-cat beside him. The she-cat nodded to her. “Pm 
Furze," she said, “and this is my kit, Creek." 

Squirrelflight greeted her, then leaned toward Leafstar. “Have you noticed that there are no grown 
males here, only youngsters?" 

“Now that you mention it . . ." Leafstar narrowed her eyes. “I wonder what happened to their 
fathers." 

“Maybe they ate them." Squirrelflight glanced at Leafstar, joking, yet she couldn't help feeling that 
the absence of adult toms was strange. 

Moonlight pointed to a yellow she-cat crouching beside the juniper. “That's Sunrise." Sunrise 
nodded as Moonlight's gaze flicked past her, toward two young ginger-and-white she-cats sharing a 
thrush a tail-length away. “They’re Flurry and Sparrow. Hawk's their mother." 

Leafstar jabbed her mouse with her paw. She hooked it up and inspected it. ^We don't need to 
know every cat’s name," she mewed. “We won't be here long." 

Moonlight glanced at her thoughtfully for a moment, then returned to her vole as though dismissing 
the SkyClan leader's claim. 

They finished their meal in silence. Squirrelflight was aware of the Sisters snatching watchful 
glances at her as they ate. Some of them clearly weren't comfortable with Moonlight's decision to 
keep them. But Sparrow and Flurry stared with open curiosity, and Squirrelflight couldn't help 
warming to the pair. They reminded her of apprentices, eager to start training. 

Dusk was creeping over the valley. As shadow swallowed the hillside, Squirrelflight glanced 
around at the bushes encircling the camp. There were gaps here and there where she and Leafstar 
could slip out. The Sisters would have to sleep eventually, and it might be possible to sneak past even 
the most careful guard. Once they were out of the camp and in the thick undergrowth of the valley, it 
would be hard to follow them. Her thoughts flitted back to ThunderClan. Bramblestar would be 
worried that she hadn't returned. She felt guilty about asking Sparkpelt to keep her secret. It wouldn't 
be easy for her daughter to sleep while her father fretted. Perhaps she'd tell him, and Bramblestar 
would be angry. Would he send a search party straight away? No. Even if he was angry with her for 


coming, he’d respect her enough to let her finish the mission she’d started and only worry when she 
hadn't returned in a day or two. 

Moonlight beckoned Tempest with a flick of her nose and, when the she-cat hurried to speak with 
her, murmured something first to Tempest and then to Snow. The white cat got to her paws and 
followed Tempest across the clearing. They stopped in front of Squirrelflight and Leafstar. 

Tempest nodded toward the juniper bush. *Moonlight says you're to sleep there." 

Snow hung back, watching through narrowed eyes as Squirrelflight and Leafstar stood and padded 
toward the juniper bush. 

Leafstar glanced over her shoulder at the white she-cat. “I don't care how big she is,” she hissed 
to Squirrelflight. “If she snarls at me again, P1 claw her fur off.” 

Tempest stopped beside the juniper bush. “She’s protective of her campmates, that's all.” She 
blinked apologetically at Leafstar. “And she doesn't trust strangers." 

Squirrelflight sniffed the bush. The warm scent of bracken hung around it. Tempest nodded to a 
small gap between the branches. You'll find nests inside. Snow will guard the entrance. If you need 
anything, ask her and she'll let me know." 

Squirrelflight dipped her head. “Thank you.” 

Leafstar pushed past her and strode inside. 

“Do you have to make this difficult?" Squirrelflight followed her in. The entrance opened into a 
small den. Bracken and moss were piled at the edges. It had clearly been slept on. “Cats have given 
up their nests so that we can sleep comfortably." 

"They wouldn't have to if they let us go." Leafstar sat on one of the piles and curled down stiffly 
into the moss. “I don't know why you're treating them like friends." 

“Why make this any more uncomfortable than it is?" Squirrelflight mewed irritably. “Besides, I 
saw a gap beside the dogwood that looks like it might lead to a track through the brush. I doubt we'll 
get past Snow tonight, but if we play along, the whole group might be less watchful and we'll be able 
to slip away tomorrow." 

“Play along," Leafstar grunted. “I thought we were warriors.” She turned her back on 
Squirrelflight and tucked her nose into the bracken, grumbling. “Held hostage by a bunch of rogues.” 

Squirrelflight settled onto the bracken beside her. She sympathized with the SkyClan leader. It 
was humiliating to be kept prisoner here, but conflict could be dangerous, not just for them. What if 
Moonlight's unborn kits were hurt in the fight? She rested her muzzle on her paws and closed her 
eyes. Tired after the long trek into new territory, she pushed worries from her mind and let herself 
sink into sleep. 

A screech woke her. It split the air and she jerked her head up. In the darkness, it took a moment to 
remember where she was. Another shriek sounded. With a sickening jolt, Squirrelflight realized that 
Leafstar wasn't beside her. She scrambled from her nest and darted outside. 

Snow had pinned Leafstar to the grass. Her pelt bushed, the white she-cat snarled at the SkyClan 
leader and pressed her shoulders harder against the earth. Leafstar struggled beneath her, hind paws 
churning. But Snow had twisted out of reach. The white cat glanced up as Squirrelflight skidded to a 
halt behind them. “I don't like to start fights any more than Moonlight,” she hissed. “But I’m more than 
willing to finish them." She let go of Leafstar and backed away, her ears flat. 

Flurry and Sparrow had hurried from their den. Stone and Grass watched from across the 
clearing. 

Moonlight padded toward them. “What's going on here?” 

“She tried to escape," Snow hissed. 


Leafstar pushed herselfto her paws and shook out her pelt. Rage shone in her eyes. 

Squirrelflight hurried forward. “She was probably just going to make dirt,” she mewed quickly. 

“No, I wasn’t,” Leafstar growled. 

“Get inside,” Squirrelflight hissed. Did she want more trouble? She smelled blood and saw that 
Leafstar was wounded. “You’re hurt!” 

Leafstar snorted and turned toward the den. Squirrelflight’s chest tightened as she watched her 
limp inside. Snow was glaring at her, eyes glittering. Stone and Grass glanced nervously at each 
other. 

Flurry stepped forward. “We can guard if you like,” she told Snow. 

Sparrow pressed beside her. “You can get some sleep.” 

Snow narrowed her eyes. “Pl finish what I started,” she mewed ominously. 

Moonlight flicked her tail. “Make sure your friend stays in her den,” she told Squirrelflight. “I 
don't want any more disturbances tonight." She turned back to her own den. 

Squirrelflight followed Leafstar inside to find her lapping her hind paw. “Let me look at your 
wound." Squirrelflight nosed her muzzle out of the way and inspected the ragged fur. Blood oozed 
from a deep scratch on her leg. Her heart sank. It would be harder to escape now that Leafstar was 
injured. “Make sure it's clean," Squirrelflight told her. 

“What do you think I was doing?" Leafstar began licking it again. 

Squirrelflight looked around the den, relieved to see cobwebs crowding between the branches 
above her head. She reached up and grabbed a pawful. “Dress it with these when you've finished 
cleaning it." 

“Thanks.” Leafstar took the cobwebs from her. 

“Tomorrow we'll see if we can get herbs to treat 11.” Anxiety fluttered in Squirrelflight's belly. 
Why hadn't Leafstar waited, as they'd planned? “Were you planning to leave without me?" 

“I was trying to see if there was an easy way out of the camp," Leafstar told her. “If I'd found one, 
I would have come back for you." 

“Okay.” Squirrelflight believed her. Leafstar wouldn't abandon another warrior. She sat down. 
Slipping away was going to be harder than she'd thought. Were they going to have to fight their way 
out of here? She forced her fur to remain flat. Fighting these cats would be dangerous. The Sisters 
seemed peaceful, but they were clearly willing to be aggressive if they needed to. “Next time you 
come up with an escape plan, tell me first." 

“I don't know if there will be a next time.” Leafstar began wrapping cobweb around her paw. “Т 
think we'll have to wait for our Clanmates to rescue us." 

Squirrelflight met her gaze darkly. She didn't want ThunderClan cats to get hurt because she'd 
made the mistake of coming here. Guilt wormed in her belly. She should never have gone behind 
Bramblestar's back. “They might not watch us so closely tomorrow," she mewed hopefully. “We 
might get away." 

Leafstar eyed her doubtfully. “These cats won't let us go easily.” 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws anxiously. Leafstar was right. Escaping was going to be hard. And 
even if they managed, she wondered what kind of reception would await her in the ThunderClan 


camp. 





CHAPTER 5 


Se 


Squirrelflight sat down and curled her tail over her paws. She yawned, sleepy after eating the fat 
vole Sparrow had brought her at sunhigh. Across the clearing Tempest, Stone, and Grass were digging 
earth from beneath a low gorse bush. Its thick branches spilled onto the grassy clearing, and the three 
cats had opened a gap in the front and were taking turns hauling dirt from around the central stem. 
Squirrelflight nodded to Leafstar. “It looks like they’re building a new den.” 

“If Moonlight let us go, they wouldn't need another den.” Leafstar lay outside the juniper bush 
where they’d slept for the past two nights. The wound on her leg was still raw. The Sisters had 
treated 1t with herbs and there was no sign of infection, but they had no hope of slipping away from 
the camp now. The Sisters watched them day and night, and even if they could escape unnoticed, there 
would be no way Leafstar could outrun a patrol ifthey were followed. 

Besides, Squirrelflight had found she was content here. The Sisters had treated them well, sharing 
prey and accepting them as though they were new members of the group. Even Snow, who was still 
watchful, had begun to warm to them. Last night she’d brought poppy seeds to the den in case 
Leafstar’s wound kept her awake. Leafstar too seemed to be growing used to living in the valley 
camp. She’d stopped complaining about the crisp scent of the hills and the fact that fresh-kill here 
tasted more of sweet herbs than the dank flavors of the forest. 

Squirrelflight wondered if ThunderClan or SkyClan had sent search patrols yet. The thought made 
her belly tighten. She felt sure by now that Bramblestar would be angry and she'd have to defend her 
reasons for coming here. And she felt guilty that the Sisters might face a patrol of hostile warriors 
because of her. 

Flurry pushed her way through the ferns that masked the camp entrance. She was carrying herbs in 
her mouth. Squirrelflight tasted the air and smelled marigold leaves. The ginger-and-white she-cat 
crossed the clearing and stopped beside Leafstar. She dropped the herbs beside the SkyClan leader 
and shook out her pelt. *How does your leg feel?" she asked Leafstar. 

“It's sore, but it's feeling better." Leafstar moved her leg closer as Flurry leaned down to look at 
1t. 

Squirrelflight had been impressed by how many of the Sisters were skilled in using herbs. 
Sparrow, Flurry, Sunrise, and Hawk had all tended to Leafstar’s wound in turn. “Do you all know 
how to treat wounds?” She watched Flurry strip the marigold leaves from the stem. 

“Of course.” Flurry kept her eyes on her work. 

“The Clans have only a few medicine cats,” Squirrelflight told her. 

“What if they get sick?” Flurry blinked at her. “Who looks after them?” 

Leafstar stretched her muzzle forward to sniff the marigold. “They look after one another. And 
they have apprentices,” she mewed. 

“I guess we’re all apprentices here,” Flurry explained. “The mothers teach their kits, and the 
sisters learn from one another.” She began to chew the leaves into a poultice. 

Squirrelflight was beginning to get used to the strange way the Sisters addressed one another. The 
younger cats often referred to the older cats as Mother, whether a she-cat was their mother or not, and 
cats ofa similar age called one another Sister. Names were used sparingly, except for the toms, who 
were only ever referred to by their names. 


As Flurry began to lap the poultice gently into Leafstar’s wound, Moonlight padded into camp, 
trailing long honeysuckle vines from her mouth. Snow, Creek, and Sparrow followed, dragging more 
vines after them. 

“Is that for the new den?” Leafstar had stopped hiding her curiosity and was as quick now to ask 
questions as Squirrelflight. 

Flurry finished applying the poultice and looked at her campmates. “We’re building Moonlight’s 
birthing den.” 

“Are her kits due soon?” Squirrelflight hoped her estimation that the Sisters might be gone by 
leaf-bare was correct. 

“The kits will come in about a moon,” Flurry told her. 

Moonlight dropped the vines beside the gorse bush and headed across the clearing. “Is the wound 
healing, Sister?” she called to Flurry as she neared. 

“Yes, Mother. The swelling has gone down,” Flurry told her. 

“Good.” Moonlight stopped beside her and nodded politely to Squirrelflight and Leafstar. “Have 
you eaten?” 

“Sparrow brought us prey,” Squirrelflight told her. She dipped her head. “I wish you’d let me 
help with the hunting. I don't like being treated like an elder.” 

“Ап elder?" Moonlight looked puzzled. 

Leafstar stretched her injured leg tentatively. “An elder is an old cat. In the Clans, when warriors 
become elders, they only hunt if they want to. Younger warriors and apprentices make sure they are 
well fed and cared for. Elders need never leave the camp." 

“T could never stay in camp all day,” Moonlight meowed. 

“T don’t like it much." Squirrelflight flicked her tail-tip irritably. “I need to stretch my legs.” 

Leafstar's ears twitched. “If you let us go, we could both stretch our legs.” 

Moonlight sniffed Leafstar's wound. “We’ll let you go when we move on. For now you'll have to 
put up with living like your elders." 

Squirrelflight looked on as Creek and Sparrow wove the vines between the branches to build the 
gorse den. “Can I help here, then?" Two long days of doing nothing had left her restless. 

“That would be kind.” Moonlight straightened. “Leafstar should rest this leg, though.” 

"I'm happy to watch," Leafstar told her. 

Moonlight led Squirrelflight across the clearing. Flurry padded after them. Stone was still 
scraping earth from the den. He paused as Squirrelflight reached him. She peered inside and saw that 
he'd created a wide dip around the central stem. Branches had been broken off to open up the space 
inside, but the remaining walls were still thick enough to keep the den cool. It looked a lot like a 
warrior den. 

Tempest padded around the pile of vines. “We’ll need more." 

Moonlight nodded to Snow. “Sister, take Creek and fetch more," she meowed. 

Snow dipped her head. She made her way out of camp, Creek hurrying behind her. 

Tempest beckoned Stone and Grass with her tail. *Use these to reinforce the back of the den," she 
told them. 

“Sure.” Stone glanced at his brother. “You weave from the inside and ГЇЇ weave from out here.” 

Grass picked up a vine in his teeth and dragged it into the den while Stone hauled another vine 
around the back. 

As Tempest watched them disappear, Squirrelflight saw sadness in the tabby's gaze. Was she 
thinking about their father? Where was he? 


“We’ll work on this side.” Moonlight pulled the remaining vines around the back of the den. 

Squirrelflight followed, glancing at Tempest. “It must have been hard for her, raising her kits 
alone.” 

Moonlight's eyes widened. “She didn't raise them alone. She had us." 

“But she must miss her mate." 

Moonlight tucked a vine into the den wall and began to draw it through, tugging at it with her 
paws. “Why would she miss her mate?" 

“Doesn't she love him?" Squirrelflight pressed a vine through a gap. 

“T don't know,” Moonlight told her. “We prefer to live without toms. Tempest could have stayed 
with him if she'd wanted to, but she chose to travel with us and raise her kits among her sisters." 

Squirrelflight couldn't imagine raising kits without Bramblestar. And how could she think of 
living without him? Even though she hadn't been gone long, she missed him. Would he forgive her for 
coming here? Suddenly her heart quickened. She wanted to see him, to explain why she'd crossed the 
border. He'd understand when he realized how important it was to her. 

“Here.” Moonlight pushed a stray tendril toward her. “Pull this one through." 

Squirrelflight tugged at it while Moonlight fastened the other end into the wall. “If you prefer not 
to have toms around, what will happen to Grass and Stone? They're your kin. Can they stay?" 

“No.” Moonlight sat back on her haunches and inspected her work. They're old enough to leave 
us. We've been waiting until the stars are in place." 

Squirrelflight wondered for a moment if the Sisters had their own StarClan. She glanced at 
Moonlight. “What do you mean?" 

“Wait until tonight," Moonlight told her. You'll see." 

“Do they want to leave?" Squirrelflight wondered how the Sisters could send their young away. 

“Of course they want to leave. They're toms. They have a deep connection with the land. They 
must travel it as they wish, not be tied to our path." 

Squirrelflight couldn't imagine being separated from her kits no matter how old they were. ““Won’t 
Tempest miss them?" 

“At first,” Moonlight told her. “But there will be new litters to take care of.” She glanced at her 
belly. “And we are each mother to all the young." 

“Where will Stone and Grass go?" 

"Wherever they choose." Moonlight reached for the end of Squirrelflight's vine and began to tuck 
it between the branches. “They might travel together, or become loners or join rogues, or live with 
Twopaws. Their ancestors will guide them." 

“Twopaws?” Squirrelflight asked. 

Moonlight tipped her head. “The furless animals that build big stone dens to live in." 

Twolegs. Squirrelflight shuddered. “But why would any cat choose to be a kittypet?" 

"Our ancestors were kittypets, as you call them," Moonlight told her. “All the Sisters are 
descended from den-bound cats. Our first Mothers were one family." 

Squirrelflight let go of the vine and Moonlight pulled it. She suddenly understood why the Sisters 
looked so similar. Their large frames and thick, long fur marked them as different from most of the 
warriors and rogues Squirrelflight had met. It made sense that they were descended from a single 
family. She was eager to know more. “Flurry said that you all have medicine-cat skills.” 

Moonlight glanced at her. “What's a medicine cat?” 

“In the Clans, we have cats who have special knowledge about healing herbs," she explained. 

“Surely it is safer to share such knowledge?" 


“There’s more to being a medicine cat than knowing about herbs. They have a special gift. They 
can communicate with our dead ancestors.” 

“They speak with the dead?” Moonlight looked suddenly interested. She rested her forepaws on 
the ground. “Is their gift passed from mother to kit?" 

“Medicine cats don't have kits.” 

Moonlight blinked. “Why not?” 

“It’s forbidden. They devote their lives to caring for their Clan.” 

Moonlight frowned. “That must be hard. I couldn't imagine life without kits.” 

“Nor could I.” Squirrelflight thought of Leafpool. How hard it must have been for her sister to 
watch Squirrelflight raise Jayfeather, Lionblaze, and Hollyleaf, to pretend all the time that she wasn't 
their mother. How much simpler it was here. Kits were born and the Sisters raised them together. 
They could take mates where they liked. There were no rules about falling in love with cats from 
other Clans. Or about who could have kits and who couldn't. And yet they had to send their sons 
away. She glanced at Moonlight’s belly. “Aren’t you frightened you might have sons who'll have to 
leave you?" 

“We can't hold on to those we love forever," Moonlight told her. 

“What about their father?" Squirrelflight hesitated. “I hope you don't mind me asking, but did you 
love him?" 

Moonlight purred, as though she thought the question was funny. “I liked him. But Jack's an everkit 
—a den-bound cat. He was fun to be around, and handsome. And I was ready to have another litter. 
But my life is with my Sisters." 

Squirrelflight's heart suddenly ached for the litter she dreamed of. “Will you see him again?" 

“PII visit the barn where he lives and show him his kits when they're old enough to travel," 
Moonlight told her. “They may want to know him, and they might even choose to live near him when 
they're old enough to leave our group. We let our young decide how they want to live. Not every cat 
wants a life like ours..” 

As she spoke, Creek and Snow pushed through the ferns at the entrance, dragging long vines 
behind them. They dropped them beside the birthing den, and Stone took one inside while Moonlight 
fetched more for the wall. Squirrelflight noticed how peacefully the cats worked, quietly helping one 
another until Sunrise and Furze padded into camp carrying prey. 

As the sun set, the Sisters finished their work and then settled around the clearing to eat. 
Moonlight pushed a young rabbit toward Squirrelflight and glanced at the purple sky, where stars 
were beginning to show. “Look.” 

Squirrelflight followed her gaze toward a patch of stars that seemed to stretch in a line toward the 
horizon. 

“The Claw Stars are pointing toward the sunset." Moonlight glanced across the clearing to where 
Grass and Stone sat close to their mother, sharing a squirrel. “It is a good night for our sons to begin 
their wandering." 

“Tonight?” Squirrelflight's heart ached as she saw Tempest nudge Grass fondly and tear offa strip 
of flesh for Stone. “Does Tempest know?" 

"She'll have seen the stars by now,” Moonlight told her matter-of-factly. The gray she-cat padded 
to join Tempest and the toms. 

Squirrelflight carried the rabbit to Leafstar and laid it down before her. The SkyClan leader was 
dozing, her muzzle resting on the grass. She lifted her head sleepily as Squirrelflight sat beside her, 
and blinked at the rabbit. “Is the den ready?" 


“Not yet, but we made good progress.” Squirrelflight looked at the half-finished den. “We can 
weave in the rest of the vines tomorrow. I might suggest that they lay a branch across the entrance to 
stop the kits from getting out.” 

Leafstar pushed herself into a sitting position and sniffed the rabbit. “You sound so at home here. 
Are you planning to stay?” She eyed Squirrelflight accusingly. 

“No, of course not.” Squirrelflight lifted her chin. “But I might as well make myself useful while 
Pm here.” 

“Don’t make yourself too useful," Leafstar grunted. “They might decide to keep you forever.” 

Squirrelflight tore a hunk of rabbit from the carcass and settled down to eat it. The Sisters had a 
good life here, but she missed her Clanmates. She wondered what it was like to live without the 
warrior code. The Sisters had a code of their own, but 1t seemed very loose. Cats were allowed to 
come and go as they pleased, and she wondered what stopped the group falling apart, especially 
when they faced the hardships of sickness or hunger. 

The shadows deepened as she ate, and the moon rose into a star-speckled sky. Moonlight got to 
her paws. Wordlessly, she headed toward the camp entrance. The rest of the group followed her, 
Grass and Stone padding close to their mother. 

Furze stopped beside Squirrelflight. “Moonlight says you're to go with them.” She glanced at 
Leafstar’s injured leg. “She can stay here with me.” 

Squirrelflight looked at Leafstar. “Grass and Stone are leaving. They're going to say good-bye,” 
she told her. “Will you be all right here by yourself?” 

Leafstar sniffed. “I won't be by myself. Pll have Furze to keep me company.” She sounded 
unimpressed, but Furze didn't seem to take offence. Instead she sat down beside the SkyClan leader 
and sniffed at the rabbit's remains. 

“Do you mind if I take a bite?” she asked Leafstar. 

“Sure.” Leafstar shrugged. 

Squirrelflight left them and hurried after the others. Sunrise was waiting for her as she pushed 
through the ferns at the entrance to the camp. “Which way did they go?" Squirrelflight gazed up the 
slope rising ahead. Bushes hid whatever path the Sisters had taken. 

“Follow me." Sunrise ducked beneath a gorse bush and led Squirrelflight up a winding trail 
through the undergrowth. Squirrelflight could smell the Sisters’ paw prints on the grass, fresher with 
each step, until she glimpsed Snow's tail flicking away through a swath of bracken ahead. Sunrise 
quickened her pace and Squirrelflight followed, pushing past the ferns, surprised when she broke into 
the open to find that they'd reached the top of the hill. 

The Sisters were lined along the crest, gazing at the land beyond. The starlit sky stretched over 
hill after hill, rolling away to the mountains. Grass and Stone stared into the distance, their pelts 
ruffled by the wind. As they looked back at the Sisters, Squirrelflight could see excitement glittering 
in their eyes. Were they glad to be leaving? Slowly, the Sisters gathered in a circle around them. 
Moonlight padded toward them and touched her nose to Grass's ear and then Stone’s. “I wish you 
well," she murmured. 

Snow took her place as Moonlight returned to the circle, nuzzling each tom fondly before stepping 
away. One by one, the Sisters said good-bye to the toms. Squirrelflight's throat tightened as Tempest 
approached them. Grief glittered in the tabby's eyes as she pressed her muzzle to Grass's cheek. 
“Take care of yourself,” she whispered. Then she turned to Stone. “Ве happy.” 

Stone's eyes shone with sadness, and he ran his nose along his mother's cheek. “We will always 
remember you." He pulled away and glanced at Grass. They seemed to share a moment of 


understanding, then blinked and looked away. 

Tempest padded back to join her Sisters. Hawk and Snow pressed either side of her as Moonlight 
dipped her head to the young toms. “This is the beginning of your great adventure,” the gray she-cat 
told them. “You must walk through the night, never looking back, and at dawn you will have left your 
kithood behind and become true toms. May the ancestors who walk the land find you and give you 
guidance.” 

Stone dipped his head. “Thank you, Mother.” 

Grass shifted his paws, seeming suddenl y uncertain. 

“Wander in peace,” Moonlight meowed. 

The Sisters raised their voices to the sky. “Wander in peace.” 

They moved, opening the circle they’d made, and Stone and Grass padded away, following the 
slope of the hill down into the next valley. 

Squirrelflight glanced back over her shoulder. She wondered 1f she could ever give up the toms in 
her life. No. From here she could see the edge of the forest beside the lake. ThunderClan territory. 
She gazed wistfully toward 1t. What was Bramblestar doing right now? Was the Clan settling down 
for the night? Or was a patrol already searching for her? Guilt tugged beneath her pelt. Was Sparkpelt 
still keeping her secret? It would be a heavy burden to bear. She couldn’t let her daughter or her Clan 
worry any longer. She had to find a way home. 

Grass and Stone had disappeared into shadow, but the Sisters stood watching silently as though 
breathing every last scent of them. Tempest leaned softly against Snow, her gaze misty. 

Squirrelflight’s heart twisted with sadness. Tomorrow, once the Sisters’ loss was less raw, she’d 
ask Moonlight again if she and Leafstar could leave. If she explained how much she missed her Clan 
and her kin, perhaps the Sisters would understand her longing to go home. Would they believe her 
promise not to let her Clanmates come here until the Sisters had left? Her belly tightened. Was it a 
promise she'd be able to keep? 





CHAPTER 6 


Se 


Squirrelflight jerked awake, her nose twitching. The air was thick with the scent of nighttime dew. 
She could smell another scent in the darkness, one that made her heart quicken, filled with the warmth 
of memory and home. She scrambled to her paws. Bramblestar! He was near. She could smell 
Thornclaw too, and Larksong and Sparkpelt. “Wake up, Leafstar!” 

The SkyClan leader lifted her head blearily. “What's going on?” 

“Quick!” Squirrelflight darted to the entrance. “They’re here. A rescue party's here!” 

As she spoke, wails shrilled outside the den. Alarm bristled through her pelt. She couldn't let 
them fight. No cat must be hurt. “Stop!” She exploded from the den, skidding to a halt as she saw Clan 
warriors facing the Sisters. 

Pale in the moonlight, Snow and Tempest had puffed out their fur. Ears flat, lips drawn back, they 
hissed at the warrior patrol. Bramblestar, Thornclaw, and Larksong snarled back at them. Furze, 
Sunrise, and Hawk slid like hissing snakes around their sisters as SkyClan cats—Hawkwing, 
Plumwillow, and Tree—fanned out around the ThunderClan patrol. The cats glared at one another 
through slitted eyes. 

“Wait!” Squirrelflight flung herself between the Sisters and the warriors. ThunderClan and 
SkyClan outnumbered the Sisters. Blossomheart, Macgyver, and Sagenose appeared, pushing between 
their Clanmates, as Berrynose and Ambermoon stepped out from behind the ThunderClan warriors 
and bared their teeth. “You mustn’t fight!” 

Confusion clouded Bramblestar’s gaze. 

Leafstar limped from the den and stopped at the edge of the clearing, her eyes round with alarm. 
“Listen to her.” 

Hawkwing stared at her, as though trying to understand. 

“They haven’t harmed us,” Squirrelflight told him. She knew that it was a lie. Snow had wounded 
Leafstar, but only because the SkyClan leader had tried to escape. There would be time for honesty 
later; right now 1t was more important to defuse the rage sparking around her. 

Creek, Flurry, and Sparrow darted from the shadows and stood beside their mothers. Moonlight 
hurried from the back of the clearing and wove between her campmates. She stopped at the front of 
the group and stared at Bramblestar. 

Squirrelflight was shocked to see how small the Clan cats looked in front of the Sisters. She’d 
grown used to these cats, forgetting their size. She realized once more how different they were—their 
fur was longer, their bodies larger than any warrior or rogue Squirrelflight knew. Even Bramblestar 
seemed overshadowed by their size. She wondered suddenly if, for all their training, the Clans could 
win a fight with these cats. She brushed the thought away. Of course they can. Skill would always 
beat strength. And yet, how could she be sure the Sisters didn't have as much skill as strength? 

Moonlight lashed her tail. “What are you doing in our camp?" She curled her lip as she glared at 
the warrior patrol. 

Bramblestar answered, his ears twitching with rage. “We’ve come to fetch our Clanmates.” He 
didn't look at Squirrelflight. 

Worry wormed in her belly, as she guessed that some of his anger was directed at her. He'd be 
wondering why in StarClan she was defending her captors and why she'd come here without telling 


him, putting herself and Leafstar in danger. She’d gone against his wishes. What would he have felt ıf 
any other of his warriors had ignored his orders so blatantly? Her mouth felt dry. What would I feel if 
one of our warriors ignored my orders? 

“They shouldn’t be here,” he growled. 

“Your Clanmates are our guests,” Moonlight told him. 

Hawkwing jerked his gaze toward Leafstar. “Is that true?” 

Moonlight answered for her. “We have treated them like sisters.” 

Bramblestar flicked his tail angrily. “They haven't stayed here voluntarily. No warrior would! 
You've held them against their will.” 

“It was necessary," Moonlight growled. 

Hawkwing glared at her. “Why?” 

Squirrelflight looked from Moonlight to Bramblestar as she stood between them. “They were 
scared we’d bring our Clanmates here 1f they let us go.” 

Bramblestar looked puzzled. “But they must have known we”d come looking for you.” 

"They're not Clan cats," Squirrelflight explained. “They didn't realize you'd try so hard to get us 
back.” 

"They've only been here two days.” Moonlight scanned the warrior patrol curiously. “That’s not 
long to be away from home. Don’t any of you ever wander?” 

Hawkwing growled. “We’re warriors, not loners. We stay with our Clan.” 

The Sisters exchanged glances, but no cat spoke. 

Bramblestar let his pelt smooth. Around him the Clan cats shifted self-consciously, as though 
suddenly wondering what they were doing here, 1f Squirrelflight and Leafstar didn't seem to be in 
danger. 

Squirrelflight padded to Bramblestar’s side, her heart quickening out of habit as his scent filled 
her nose. She reached her muzzle toward him. Did he feel the same way? Or was he too angry with 
her to feel relieved that she was safe? “I’m glad you came to get us.” 

He pulled away, blinking at her. “Are you okay?” 

"I'm fine.” 

Leafstar limped toward her warriors. 

“Not so fast.” Snow darted from the group and blocked her way. “We haven't said you can leave.” 

“Why keep us now?” Leafstar blinked at her. “Our Clanmates know where your camp is. There”s 
nothing left to hide.” 

“No,” Snow agreed, her pelt rippling along her spine. “But as long as you're our guests, your 
friends will have to respect our boundaries.” 

Squirrelflight looked at her in surprise. “I thought the Sisters didn't have boundaries.” 

“Not permanently," Snow conceded. “But when one of us is ready to kit, we must mark out some 
sort of territory to protect her and her newborn." 

Bramblestar's gaze flitted around the Sisters, stopping as 1t reached Moonlight. He dipped his 
head. “I should have seen that you are expecting kits.” 

Squirrelflight blinked at him. “Do you see why I couldn't let you fight?" 

He ignored her. “But you can't keep Leafstar and Squirrelflight here. They're coming home with 
us now.” 

As he spoke, Tree pushed his way to the front. The SkyClan tom’s eyes were on Moonlight. 
Squirrelflight watched him, alarm sparking in her belly. Why was Tree glaring at the gray she-cat so 
resentfully? 


“Hello, Mother.” 

Squirrelflight blinked. Mother? Had he once been part of this group? She stiffened as another 
thought flashed in her mind. Were they actually mother and son? Tree—small, muscular, thickly 
pelted—looked nothing like the broad, long-furred, bushy-tailed she-cat. And yet there was a dark 
determination in his amber gaze that reminded her of Moonlight. 

Moonlight stared back at Tree, blankness giving way to excitement as she recognized him. 
“Earth!” Sunrise, whose coat was the same shade of yellow as Tree’s, stepped forward, her tail rising 
in excitement, but paused at Tree's next words. 

“Tm not Earth anymore." Anger hardened Tree’s mew. “I named myself Tree after you sent me 
away." 

“Tree.” Moonlight repeated his name, as though testing it. She tipped her head. “I like it. It suits 
you. You were always a strong-minded kit.” 

“Is that why you abandoned me?" 

“Abandoned you?" Moonlight looked surprised. “You were old enough to hunt." 

"Barely." 

“But the Claw Stars were pointing to the sunset. It was time for you to wander." 

“You let the stars dictate my fate." Tree held his mother's gaze scornfully for a moment longer, 
then looked away. 

Squirrelflight glanced around at the Sisters. They shifted uncomfortably. Sunrise was staring 
guiltily at her paws. Perhaps their way of life wasn't as uncomplicated as she'd thought. She saw 
Creek shoot a nervous glance at his mother. Was he anxious about leaving when his time came to 
wander? 

Bramblestar moved beside him. “Tree is one of us now. If he wishes to know you better, that's up 
to him, but he came here for the same reason we did. You are holding our Clanmates against their 
will. Let them go!” He flexed his claws. “You may be carrying kits, but that doesn't mean we won't 
fight to get our Clanmates back." 

As Moonlight hesitated, Squirrelflight saw Plumwillow and Berrynose drop into battle stances. 
Hawkwing and Thornclaw bared their teeth. Her breath caught in her throat. “They only want us to 
stay here until Moonlight's kits are ready to travel," she mewed quickly. 

Bramblestar swung his gaze toward her. *Do you want to stay with them until then?" he growled. 

“Of course not!” Squirrelflight blinked at him. “But they meant us no harm. If we wait, this 
territory will be free for SkyClan to take in a moon or two." 

Bramblestar stared at her coolly. “That is a decision for Leafstar and SkyClan to make.” 

Leafstar whisked her tail. “This 15 good land. I think SkyClan would be happy here." Relief 
washed Squirrelflight's pelt. Leafstar was backing her up. She looked gratefully at her as the SkyClan 
leader went on. “Pm willing to give the Sisters a moon to move on. Two if they need it." She 
switched her gaze to Moonlight. “But they must let us return to our Clans. I’m not staying here another 
day." 

Moonlight dipped her head. “You can go.” She lifted her gaze to Bramblestar. “We*re bigger than 
you, and stronger," she told him. *Any battle between us would be bloody. But there is no need to 
fight if you leave us in peace." 

Bramblestar narrowed his gaze. “Strength doesn't always win battles," he snarled. 

Plumwillow showed her teeth. “You held our leader captive!" 

*She looks wounded," Sagenose growled. 

Did the Clan cats want revenge? Squirrelflight gazed pleadingly at Bramblestar. “Let’s go." 


Larksong padded forward. “If they’re letting Squirrelflight leave, there’s no need to fight. 
Leafstar's wound will heal faster if she returns home right away.” 

Squirrelflight looked at the young tom, grateful for his sense. He was thinking with his head, not 
his claws. Sparkpelt had chosen a good mate. 

“Very well.” Bramblestar signaled with his tail, and the Clan cats began to turn toward the fern 
entrance. 

Squirrelflight lingered, catching Moonlight's eye. “Thanks for sharing your fresh-kill.” 

“I am sorry that we met under such circumstances," the gray she-cat meowed. “If we meet again, I 
hope that 1t will be as friends.” 

Leafstar eyed Moonlight but didn't speak. She was clearly less than grateful for the Sisters” 
hospitality. She nodded curtly and limped after her Clanmates as Squirrelflight dipped her head to 
Moonlight. 

“I hope your kitting goes well.” 

“Thank you.” Moonlight swished her tail. 

“Are you coming?” Bramblestar stopped at the entrance and glared at Squirrelflight, his pelt 
prickling along his spine. 

“I have to go.” Squirrelflight headed toward him, irritated at being called away like a kit. 

Bramblestar waited for her to push through the ferns, then followed her out of camp. Her 
Clanmates wound their way out of the valley. She padded after them, relieved to be heading home. 

“What in StarClan were you thinking?" Bramblestar fell in beside her. 

She dipped her head, bracing herself for the argument she knew must be coming. “Pm sorry.” 

"Going off like that on a hare-brained mission without telling me!" 

She could feel his gaze burning through her pelt. *You'd have stopped me if you'd known," she 
mewed. 

“Of course I would have!” he snapped. “Now look what's happened. You've found a whole new 
group of cats to fight with over territory. As 1f ShadowClan and WindClan weren't enough!" 

“But we don’t have to fight with them," Squirrelflight objected. "They're happy for SkyClan to 
have the land when they're finished with it." She stopped and looked at him. She'd made a mistake 
coming here as she had, but it was obvious she'd found the answer to the Clans’ problems. “Don't you 
see? Pve found SkyClan the land they need! Now the Clans won't have to fight over territory ever 
again." 

“Don't be naive." Bramblestar stared at her. “New territory will probably mean new battles. 
Since when was any Clan satisfied with what they have?" 

“When each Clan has enough, then the fighting will stop.” Why was he being so negative? “We 
haven't gotten the borders right until now. But once SkyClan moves, every Clan will have plenty." 

Bramblestar brushed past her and padded after his Clanmates. 

Squirrelflight caught up to him, irritation spiking her fur. *I had a good idea and I followed it 
through," she snapped. “Leafstar likes the new territory, and now SkyClan will have somewhere they 
can finally make a real home. You just don't want to admit I was right!" 

“Nonsense!” Bramblestar lashed his tail. “I'm Clan leader. I welcome ideas from any of my 
Clanmates, and if it's a good idea, I’m happy to be proved wrong." 

“My idea is a good idea!” Squirrelflight swallowed back frustration. 

"You're only seeing it from your point of view," Bramblestar growled. “Have you really thought 
about what it would be like for SkyClan to move again so soon? To build yet another camp? To learn 
about new territory? How do you know there aren't Twolegs here? Or a family of foxes? Have you 


checked every tail-length of this land? What if one of their kits 1s killed by a snake here? Will you 
take responsibility?” 

“Life is risky!” Squirrelflight ignored the doubt shimmering at the edge of her thoughts. “There 
will be risks wherever SkyClan lives!” 

Bramblestar ignored her. “And how does it make SkyClan look—agreeing to live where the other 
Clans choose again? Do you think the other Clans will treat them as equals once they’ve finished 
pushing them around?” 

“That's not my problem!” Squirrelflight shot back. “It’s up to SkyClan! Leafstar wants to move. 
She knows what she’s doing.” 

“I hope so.” Bramblestar paused and looked along the track as it steepened and disappeared 
among boulders. “Are you sure that, after a few seasons living among these hills, SkyClan won't feel 
like they’ve been pushed outside the Clans again?” 

“Why should they? This land is right next to ours, and ShadowClan’s. And they'll have a strip of 
territory right down to the lakeshore. They'll be as much a part of the Clans as we are.” Squirrelflight 
hurried after him, following the path as 1t snaked into a narrow gorge. Ahead, their Clanmates padded 
beneath overhanging rock. The star-specked sky showed in a narrow band above them. As the trail 
opened into another valley, Bramblestar spoke again. 

“I was worried about you, you know?” His mew was husky. 

“I know.” Guilt rippled beneath her pelt. “I didn’t know I'd be away so long, and I told Sparkpelt 
where I'd gone, just in case." 

“Sparkpelt was worried too," he told her. “More so because you asked her to keep your secret. 
She didn't know whether telling me was betraying you, or remaining silent was betraying me. You 
should never have put her in that position." 

Squirrelflight shrank beneath her pelt. “I know," she mewed softly. “I just wanted to make the 
Clans okay again. How was I to know we'd be taken prisoner?" As she spoke, resentment bubbled in 
her chest. Bramblestar wasn't even trying to understand. Was he enjoying making her feel bad? “But 
we weren't hurt, and it was good to see how other cats live. The Sisters have an interesting way of 
life." 

“And we don't?" 

“That's not what I meant and you know it!” He was acting like a kit! “They treated us well.” 

“What about Leafstar's wound?" 

“She tried to escape." 

“And you didn't?" He shot her a reproachful look. “Did you like the Sisters so much that you 
didn't want to come home?" 

“Don’t be mouse-brained!” 

““Mouse-brained’!” He glared at her. “You force me to lead my Clanmates into hostile territory 
on a rescue mission and you call me mouse-brained. You're Clan deputy, for StarClan's sake! You're 
supposed to be protecting your Clan, not putting them in danger. And you're my mate. If there's 
anyone I should be able to rely on in ThunderClan, it should be you!” 

“You can rely on me!” The ground seemed to shift beneath Squirrelflight’s paws. Didn't he trust 
her anymore? 

“Not when you behave like a reckless apprentice." Bramblestar glared at her. “From now on, I 
want you to run every decision by me. No more going off on your own ridiculous missions. No more 
arguing with me at Gatherings. If a deputy can't support her own leader, perhaps she's not fit to be 
deputy." With that, Bramblestar pulled ahead, his shoulders stiff, and followed his Clanmates as the 


path wound into a wooded ravine. 

Some of the ThunderClan warriors shot Squirrelflight sympathetic glances. It only made her feel 
more wretched. Did my own mate just threaten to replace me as deputy? She trailed behind. What 
was the point of talking to him? He seemed determined to twist her words, and he clearly didn't want 
to admit that her mission might have helped the Clans. Suddenly she missed the amiable calm of the 
Sisters' camp. In her days there, no cat had argued or worried about territory or fussed about whether 
their campmates were following the warrior code. They seemed to take life as it came, without 
judgment or complaint. As they neared the Clan border, Squirrelflight's chest tightened as she felt the 
forest begin to close in on her. 

She could sense that Bramblestar wasn't going to forgive her anytime soon. 





CHAPTER 7 


% 


Flippaw stopped as he crossed the clearing, a bundle of fresh moss for the elders’ den between his 
jaws. He dropped it as he reached Squirrelflight. “I’m glad you're back. Hollytuft said the Sisters 
wanted to keep you captive forever." He blinked at her eagerly. “She said they were twice the size of 
normal cats. Were they scary?" 

Squirrelflight twitched her tail. She'd lost count of the number of times she'd answered questions 
about the Sisters since she'd returned yesterday. “They were nice,” she told him patiently. 

Flippaw looked puzzled. “But they held you hostage." 

“Yes, but they shared their prey with us and took care of Leafstar's wounded paw." Why were her 
Clanmates so surprised that cats could be kind and yet still stand up for themselves? 

Flippaw tipped his head to one side. “Is that why you didn't try to escape?" 

Squirrelflight swallowed back irritation. *Leafstar's injury made it hard to escape, and I wasn't 
going to leave her." 

“But you said they were nice. She would have been okay." 

“It wouldn't have been right to escape by myself." Didn't young cats understand loyalty? 

But Flippaw had moved on. “Were they rogues?" He stared at her intently. “Bristlepaw said they 
used to be part of Darktail's Kin." 

“Of course they weren't." Squirrelflight flicked her tail sharply. She was relieved to see Hollytuft 
padding from the fresh-kill pile. 

The black warrior looked sternly at Flippaw. “Shouldn’t you be cleaning out the elders’ den?” 

His tail drooped. “I wanted to find out about the new Clan." 

“I told you," Hollytuft mewed. “It isn't a Clan. It's just some cats who live near the mountains. 
Squirrelflight was unlucky to run into them." 

“Why were you near the mountains?" Flippaw blinked at Squirrelflight. “Are we moving there? 
Thriftpaw says one of the Clans has to move before leaf-bare or we'll all starve.” 

“No one is going to starve." Hollytuft looked at Squirrelflight apologetically. “Trying to stop 
apprentices gossiping is like trying to stop birds singing." 

Squirrelflight's gaze drifted around the clearing. The whole Clan had been talking about her time 
with the Sisters since she'd gotten back. Now her Clanmates were settling down for a midday meal. 
Whitewing and Honeyfur carried mice from the fresh-kill pile. Larksong dropped a vole at 
Dewnose's paws. Finleap and Twigbranch settled beside the warriors' den, snatching glances at 
Squirrelflight before tucking into a rabbit. Rosepetal blinked at her sympathetically, as though she'd 
just recovered from an illness. 

Graystripe sat beside Millie outside the elders' den. Millie looked gaunt, and Graystripe sat close 
to her. “You must be glad to be back, Squirrelflight," he called across the clearing. “Another cat's 
food never tastes as good as your own." 

“Imagine!” Cloudtail stretched beside him. “A group of cats with no toms. Who's heard of such a 
thing? I hope they didn't give you any ideas." He blinked teasingly at Squirrelflight. *I don't know 
what Graystripe and I would do if Millie and Brightheart threw us out." 

Millie purred roughly. “The den would be a lot neater." 

Graystripe nudged her cheek with his nose. “But you'd miss me, right?" 


Millie nosed him away, her eyes shimmering with affection. “Of course I would, you old fool.” 
For a moment the fragility that had appeared in the old she-cat's face since the start of greenleaf 
vanished. 

Small stones showered from the rock tumble, and Squirrelflight looked up to see Bramblestar 
scrambling down from the Highledge. She looked away to avoid catching his eye. Since she’d 
returned from the Sisters’ camp, he'd been polite but formal. Her heart ached at being kept at tail's 
length, but she understood why he was still angry. She’d caused a lot of worry and disruption in the 
Clan. But she wished he hadn’t told her he was thinking about replacing her as deputy. She’d been 
taken captive by the Sisters only because she had been trying to find a way to keep the peace among 
the Clans. He wanted peace too. Why couldn't he support her plan instead of criticizing her for it? 

“Squirrelflight.” He padded toward her, his gaze cool. 

She dipped her head. “Bramblestar.” 

“Who do you plan to send on dawn patrol tomorrow?" He glanced around the Clan. 

“I haven't decided yet.” 

Bramblestar frowned and padded softly into the shadow of the Highledge. He beckoned 
Squirrelflight closer with a twitch of his tail. “I thought I asked you to let me know in advance of any 
decisions you make as deputy," he mewed, lowering his voice. 

Anger flared in her belly. *I never decide who's going on patrol until the morning," she told him 
icily. “I like to see who's awake. It's no use waking one warrior when another warrior is already 
itching to get out into the forest." 

“That's sloppy. A warrior should know if he's going on patrol and be ready.” Bramblestar's ears 
twitched. “From now on, I want to know who's going out on dawn patrol the night before.” 

Squirrelflight flexed her claws. “Is that how it’s going to be now? Are you going to make up 
mouse-brained rules just to prove you're in charge?" 

*You're my deputy,” he told her. “I need to know that you can follow orders.” 

“Or you'll replace me. I know. I get the message." Squirrelflight glared at him. 

Bramblestar met her gaze evenly. *I need to know I can trust you." 

“Of course you can trust me! I love you and I love my Clan. I would never do anything to hurt you 
or them." The Sisters’ life seemed suddenly appealing. The idea that Moonlight would invent 
pointless rules for Snow and the others to follow seemed ridiculous. Bramblestar was supposed to be 
her mate. Why couldn't he talk to her instead of trying to make her feel small? 

Bramblestar sniffed. “Tm just worried that your judgment is not as sound as it should be.” 

“Not sound?" Squirrelflight stared at him in disbelief. “Because I came up with a plan and tried to 
follow it through?" 

"Because your plan put SkyClan and ThunderClan in danger." He stared at her accusingly. 

“The Sisters aren't a danger to any—" She stopped as she noticed Sparkpelt staring at them from 
the edge of the clearing. 

The orange warrior's gaze flicked anxiously from Bramblestar to Squirrelflight. *Is everything 
okay?" 

“Of course." Squirrelflight forced her fur to smooth and hurried toward Sparkpelt. “We were just 
discussing patrols." 

Sparkpelt looked doubtful. “I wanted to talk to you both," she mewed hesitantly. “But I can come 
back later.” 

“No,” Squirrelflight mewed quickly. 

"You're not interrupting.” Bramblestar padded to join them, his gaze softening as he greeted 


Sparkpelt with the touch of his nose. 

Claws seemed to grip Squirrelflight's heart. She missed feeling close to Bramblestar. 

Sparkpelt looked at them. "There's something I have to tell you." 

Squirrelflight's pelt pricked with unease as she noticed how nervous Sparkpelt looked, and yet 
the young warrior's pelt was glossy and her eyes bright. She'd never looked healthier. What could be 
wrong? 

“Tm expecting kits." Sparkpelt blinked at her. 

“Sparkpelt, that's wonderful." Happiness surged beneath Squirrelflight's pelt. She glanced across 
the clearing to where Larksong was sharing a vole with Dewnose. The young tom was chatting to his 
denmate, his ears pricked, his eyes sparkling. Sparkpelt was going to be a mother, and her mate was a 
kind tom and a good warrior. Sparkpelt and Alderheart were both happy and settled. What more 
could she want? 

And yet grief tugged at her belly. She longed for kits too—and a mate who still loved her. The 
possibility seemed suddenly far away. Her thoughts spiraled. Was she foolish for even wanting it? 
Should she resign herself to spending the rest of her days watching her Clan grow and change around 
her while she simply grew old and died? 

“Squirrelflight?” Sparkpelt blinked at her anxiously. “You are pleased, aren't you?" 

“Of course I'm pleased. And Bramblestar is too.” She glanced at him. 

Bramblestar was staring back at her, sympathy glistening in his eyes. Had he guessed what she'd 
been thinking? As she caught his eye, he looked away and touched his nose to Sparkpelt's head. 
“That's great news, Sparkpelt. We're very happy for you. When are the kits due?" 

“Tm not sure." Sparkpelt was purring, her pelt fluffed with happiness. 

Squirrelflight glanced at the young queen's belly. It was already beginning to swell. “It looks like 
it won't be too long," she mewed warmly. 

Sparkpelt pressed her cheek against Squirrelflight's. *I can't wait to be a mother." She headed 
away. Larksong jumped to his paws and brushed against her as she reached him. 

Squirrelflight turned back to Bramblestar, her feelings hardening once more. Were there any more 
rules he wanted to tell her about? 

He was gazing at her kindly. *I know that must have been difficult," he murmured. 

Squirrelflight stiffened guiltily, ashamed of the grief Sparkpelt's news had triggered. It was worse 
that Bramblestar had seen it. “I’m happy for her. Pm happy for them both." 

“But I know how much you want more kits," he meowed. 

She narrowed her eyes, anger flaring. “And I know how much you don't." She turned her tail on 
him and marched away. With every paw step, her anger melted and guilt took its place. Why had she 
said that? He was only trying to be kind. Overwhelmed, she headed to the medicine den. She needed 
to share her feelings with some cat. She remembered how relieved Leafpool had been when she'd 
returned to camp— surely she would understand. 

She ducked through the brambles and saw Alderheart crouching beside the pool, sorting herbs. 
Leafpool was plucking old moss from one of the nests they kept for sick cats. She looked up as 
Squirrelflight entered, her eyes narrowing as she saw her sister's face. “Is everything okay?" 

“Not really,” Squirrelflight mewed huskily. 

“Come and help me collect herbs," Leafpool mewed. 

Alderheart looked up from his work. “We collected herbs this morning." 

“T know." Leafpool whisked her tail. “But I think we need some more marigold. It won't flower 
forever." She crossed the den and bustled Squirrelflight outside. “What's happened?" she asked as 


they padded into the sunlight. 

“It’s nothing, really.” Squirrelflight hesitated. “Tm probably being oversensitive.” 

Leafpool whisked her onward. “Is 1t Sparkpelt’s news?” She reached the camp entrance and 
ducked through. 

Squirrelflight hurried after her. “How did you know?” 

“T ve learned to tell when a cat is expecting kits.” Leafpool stopped and met Squirrelflight’s gaze. 
“And you've told me how much you want more of your own.” 

Squirrelflight stared at her. “I know I should be happy.” 

Leafpool swished her tail. “Come on. Some fresh air will do you good.” She raced away, heading 
upslope toward the beech grove. 

Squirrelflight followed, relishing the breeze as it streamed through her fur. The thrum of their 
paws on the forest floor was soothing. The familiar sight of the trees and brambles reassured her. 

Leafpool slowed down as the trees opened into a small clearing. Marigold clustered between the 
ferns, and she led Squirrelflight to a splash of orange where the flowers were growing thickly. 
Crouching beside it, the medicine cat tugged out a stalk with her teeth and dropped it on the ground. 
She looked at Squirrelflight. “It’s okay to be sad.” 

“Is 1t?" Squirrelflight blinked at her. 

“It must be hard to hear that Sparkpelt's expecting when you're not.” Leafpool tipped her head 
sympathetically. 

Squirrelflight looked at her paws. “I feel selfish." 

“It’s not selfish to want kits." 

"I'm happy for Sparkpelt.” Squirrelflight looked at Leafpool earnestly. “You know that, don't 
you?" 

“Of course you are." 

Squirrelflight sat down. “It’s just going to be difficult.” Guilt jabbed her again. “Watching my own 
kit have kits. Pm not ready to be that old. I want another chance. I know Sparkpelt deserves to be 
happy, but it's hard watching another cat get what I want so much.” 

“You deserve to be happy too." Leafpool's eyes rounded with sympathy. 

“Bramblestar’s angry with me, and Pm probably going to die without having more kits." 
Squirrelflight could feel herself sinking into self-pity, but couldn't stop. “I don't know if P11 ever be 
happy again." 

Leafstar plucked another marigold stalk out with her teeth. “I’m not sure that’s true.” 

“But it's how I feel." Squirrelflight glanced back toward the stone hollow. “Bramblestar says he's 
wondering whether he should replace me as deputy. And he's making up rules to test me. He doesn't 
trust my judgment anymore." 

“He just needs time to calm down." Leafpool straightened and padded toward Squirrelflight. “He 
was really worried when you went missing. He thought you might be dead." 

"Everything I do seems wrong at the moment. He tried to be kind to me just now, when Sparkpelt 
told us her news, and I snarled at him.” Squirrelflight felt suddenly as heavy as stone. “And he's right. 
I shouldn't have gone off without telling him. But I just wanted to make him see that there's a way to 
stop the Clans fighting over land. And Sparkpelt . . .” Her shoulders sagged. “I hope she didn't see 
that I was upset. I'm happy for her, I really am, but it was hard to hide how I—” 

Leafpool pressed her muzzle against Squirrelflight's cheek. “It’s okay, Squirrelflight. You don't 
have to be perfect all the time." She purred softly, and Squirrelflight felt her pain ease as the warmth 
from Leafpool's cheek seeped into hers. 


Squirrelflight drew away, suddenly appreciating her sister more than ever. She was still 
sympathetic, even after so much loss. “I can only imagine how hard it must have been for you all these 
moons. You’ve had to watch so many Clanmates having kits after you had to give your own away. 
While I was raising Jayfeather, Lionblaze, and Hollyleaf, and loving them as if they were my own, I 
never fully understood how much it must have hurt.” 

Leafpool met her gaze steadily. “I’m grateful you risked so much to make sure I didn't lose my 
place as medicine cat. And in a way, we raised them together. I was always there for them, and I 
could see them and take care of them." 

Squirrelflight thought of Moonlight. We are each mother to all the young. “That's how the Sisters 
raise their kits. Each cat is mother to every kit, and sister to her campmates," she told Leafpool. “In 
the Sisters, no cat would have made you choose between your kits and being a medicine cat. There 
are no rules saying who can and can't have kits." 

“But we're not with the Sisters; we're Clan cats." Leafpool's gaze hardened. “And no cat made 
me choose. I did what I thought was best." Her mew was suddenly brittle, and Squirrelflight knew 
that she'd touched a nerve. There's no point imagining that it could have happened any other way. I 
did what I did, and it's no use regretting it. My bond with StarClan was too strong to think about 
giving it up." She narrowed her eyes. “Do the Sisters share with their ancestors?" 

"[ don't know. Moonlight mentioned ancestors, but I don't think they share with them like we 
share with StarClan. They were descended from kittypets, after all." 

Leafpool huffed. “How can they even begin to understand the bond we have with StarClan and the 
sacrifices we make to honor it? There's more to being a medicine cat than knowing a few herbs or 
how to cure bellyache. I doubt these Sisters know what a prophecy is, and, from what you say, they 
are too busy living in the moment to think about what lies in their past or their future." She sniffed. “I 
wouldn't ever want to live like that." 

Squirrelflight dipped her head. “Pm sorry. I shouldn't have said anything. It was just strange to 
see other cats living so differently." Squirrelflight couldn't help feeling that it might be nice to live in 
the moment, instead of being weighted down with rules and ancestors and traditions. She shook out 
her fur. “But the Sisters will move on soon, and SkyClan can have their land." 

“If StarClan approves," Leafpool meowed sharply. 

“Of course." Didn't Leafpool ever feel restricted by Clan rules and traditions? “Have you shared 
with them yet?" 

Leafpool’s gaze darkened. "They're still quiet.” 

"Perhaps they're okay with SkyClan moving." 

"Perhaps." Leafpool looked unconvinced. “But until we have word, it's best that SkyClan doesn't 
make any decisions." 

“Even if it means peace within the Clans?" 

“StarClan knows best." Leafpool returned to the marigold patch and plucked out another stalk. 
Squirrelflight saw her ears twitching. She was clearly unnerved by StarClan's silence, and talk of the 
Sisters hadn't helped. 

If only StarClan would share with her. They could let her know that it would be good for SkyClan 
to move to new territory. They might even know 1f Squirrelflight was destined to have more kits. 
Leafpool's words flashed in her mind. Don t rush so much, Squirrelflight. Stop trying to sort out 
every problem at once. Perhaps her sister was right. If she just waited, Bramblestar would get over 
his anger and they'd have more kits together, the Sisters would move on and SkyClan would find a 
new home, and the Clans would live in peace. 


It was pointless trying to guess what the future held, because no cat knew. Squirrelflight looked up 
through the branches at the afternoon sky. Does StarClan know what will happen? A shiver ran down 
her spine. If they did, they weren't giving anything away. 





CHAPTER 8 


Se 


Larksong slid past Squirrelflight and lifted his gaze, his mouth open. "There's a squirrel nest up 
there." 

Branches twitched overhead, and leaves flickered in the sunshine that streamed through the 
canopy. Squirrelflight pricked her ears as she saw gray fur flash high in an oak. A fluffy tail bobbed 
along a branch, followed by another. 

Blossomfall stopped beside her, following her gaze. She swished her tail. “It’s too high up.” 

“I see it" Mousewhisker looked into the branches, his pelt fluffing with excitement. 

Larksong padded closer and peered up the trunk. “Itd be simple to climb.” Sturdy branches jutted 
from the trunk of the oak tree. The bark was gnarled, easy to sink claws into. 

"Let's leave the climbing to SkyClan." Squirrelflight beckoned Larksong back with a flick of her 
tail. She didn't want Larksong to risk such a long climb. Sparkpelt was with them, and she'd be 
uneasy seeing her mate hunting prey high overhead. 

In the days since Sparkpelt had told her parents she was expecting kits, she and Larksong had 
been inseparable. Larksong had come to Squirrelflight, asking to be assigned to the same patrols as 
Sparkpelt. Squirrelflight was touched by their protective love for each other, but it made her feel the 
loss of Bramblestar's affection even more. 

She still shared Bramblestar's den and followed him up to the Highledge each night, settling self- 
consciously into the nest beside his. Without speaking, they both knew the importance of hiding the 
depth of the rift between them. The Clan must not know how divided their leader and deputy were, 
although Squirrelflight couldn't help thinking it must be obvious; she and Bramblestar hardly spoke to 
each other, and were formal when they did, and they never patrolled or hunted together anymore. 

“Squirrelflight.” Larksong's mew jerked her back to the present. “I can smell something strange.” 
The black warrior's pelt was bristling along his spine. “It smells familiar, but Pm not sure what it is." 

“It's a rogue!” Mousewhisker uncurled his claws. Blossomfall glanced around the forest. 
Larksong moved closer to Sparkpelt. 

Squirrelflight tasted the air, stiffening as a scent she knew well bathed her tongue. The Sisters. 
What were they doing on ThunderClan territory? “Wait.” She nodded to Mousewhisker, hoping she'd 
find the Sisters first. Surely they hadn't come to fight? Padding quickly ahead, she scanned the trees, 
her tail twitching as she glimpsed white fur moving through ferns. She hurried toward it, recognizing 
the pelt. "Snow?" 

Snow turned her blue eyes on Squirrelflight. Squirrelflight could see panic sparking in the she- 
cat's gaze. 

“Who is it?" Blossomfall stopped beside Squirrelflight. 

“It’s Snow,” she told her. *She's one of the Sisters." 

Mousewhisker caught up to them. *What are you doing on ThunderClan land?" he snarled at 
Snow. 

Blossomfall cut in. “She shouldn't be here.” The tortoiseshell flattened her ears as Larksong and 
Sparkpelt reached them. 

Sparkpelt blinked at Snow in surprise, then looked at Squirrelflight. “Why’s she here?" 

"She's trespassing on our land,” Blossomfall growled. 


Squirrelflight looked at Snow. “Why have you come here?” she asked gentl y. 

“I was looking for you,” Snow mewed. “You said you have medicine cats. They might know what 
to do. Sunrise needs help. She’s been wounded.” 

Squirrelflight tensed. “Is 1t bad?” 

"It's not our problem.” Blossomfall curled her lip. 

Snow kept her gaze fixed on Squirrelflight. “Can one of your medicine cats come and see her? 
She”s not far from here.” 

Why had Sunrise been wounded so close to their territory? Squirrelflight shifted her paws 
uneasily. Blossomfall’s fur was already bristling. She wouldn't be pleased if Squirrelflight treated 
this trespasser too kindly. “I’m not sure there's anything I can do.” 

“But your medicine cat might know, right?” Snow looked at her imploringly. 

Squirrelflight hesitated. What would Bramblestar say 1f she helped the Sisters? Surely he 
wouldn't deny help to a wounded cat. And yet he’d been so angry that she’d found the Sisters in the 
first place. If he knows Snow was looking for me, he might accuse me of bringing them here. 

“Let's just take a look at the wounded cat.” Larksong padded to Squirrelflight's side. “It might not 
be as serious as Snow says. We can patch her up and send them on their way without bothering the 
rest of the Clan." 

She looked at him, wondering. If they could fix this themselves, it would save questions about 
why the Sisters had been on their land. She frowned. But Bramblestar was bound to find out. The 
patrol would have no reason to keep this a secret. And yet she couldn't turn her back on an injured 
cat. She flicked her tail. “Show us where she is," she told Snow. “If I think she needs help, ГІІ send 
for our medicine cat." 

“It might be a trap!” Blossomfall’s hackles lifted. 

Squirrelflight turned on her. “I know these cats well enough to know they won't hurt us." 

Mousewhisker narrowed his eyes. “Are you sure? They held you captive, don't forget.” 

“They didn't harm me." Squirrelflight nodded to Snow. “Let's go.” 

Snow led the way past the ferns and followed a rabbit trail through brambles. She crossed a dried 
streambed and ducked beneath a juniper. On the other side, she halted. 

Squirrelflight scanned the forest ahead. Where was Sunrise? “I don't see her." 

Sparkpelt and Larksong stopped beside her, glancing nervously between the trees. 

Mousewhisker padded toward the bushes, which lined the slope ahead, and sniffed them warily. 
They quivered, and he recoiled in surprise, arching his back as Sunrise, Tempest, and Hawk slid out. 

Blossomfall darted to his side, teeth bared. “I told you it was a trap!" Even with her pelt bushed, 
the Sisters were far bigger than her. 

Tempest blinked at her in surprise. “Why would we trap you?" 

“How should I know?" Blossomfall bristled. 

Tempest ignored her and looked hopefully at Squirrelflight. “Have you come to help?" 

“If we can." Squirrelflight could smell blood and saw that Sunrise was leaning heavily on Hawk. 
The yellow fur on her flank was stained red. 

Larksong padded around the Sisters, his ears twitching. “What happened?" 

“We got into a fight with some toms." As Hawk spoke, Sunrise collapsed to the ground. 

Alarm sparked through Squirrelflight's pelt. There was no way they could fix this themselves. 
Sunrise needed a medicine cat. 

“Should we fetch Alderheart?" Mousewhisker blinked at her. 

“It would take too long," Squirrelflight told him. This was more serious than she'd imagined. 


“Let’s carry Sunrise back to camp.” She nodded to Snow, Hawk and Tempest. “You can go home. 
We'll take care of her.” 

Snow stiffened. We're not leaving her.” 

Sparkpelt looked anxiously at her mother. “We can't let them all come to the camp.” She leaned 
closer, lowering her voice so the others couldn't hear. “Bramblestar wouldn't be happy. He already 
thinks you're too quick to defend the Sisters.” 

“And he's right to be cautious." Blossomfall fluffed out her fur. “Don’t forget what happened 
when ShadowClan took Darktail and his friends in." 

“Darktail had always planned to destroy the Clans. He wasn't wounded when ShadowClan found 
him," Mousewhisker pointed out. “This cat really needs our help." 

“Her friends aren't wounded," Blossomfall argued. “Why do they need to come?" 

“To make sure our campmate is okay,” Snow mewed. We've met your Clanmates, remember? 
They weren't exactly friendly." 

“We’ll take care of her," Larksong promised. 

Tempest lifted her chin. We're coming with her.” 

Sparkpelt whispered in her mother's ear. “Bramblestar won't like it." 

Squirrelflight pulled away, her heart quickening as blood spread wider over Sunrise's flank. “We 
have to help them." Flesh showed where the wound opened. She couldn't let a cat die. She'd deal 
with Bramblestar later. After all, things couldn't get any more strained between them, surely. It was a 
risk she'd have to take. *You'll have to carry her," she told Hawk and Tempest. She nodded to 
Larksong and Mousewhisker. “You can help." 

She stood back as the toms ducked down and tucked their shoulders beneath Sunrise. Hawk and 
Tempest jerked their campmate up with their muzzles. Sliding beneath her, the four cats heaved 
Sunrise onto their backs and then, pressing together, began to head for camp. Sparkpelt walked close 
to Larksong's side, while Blossomfall circled the group uneasily as it made its way toward the 
streambed. 

Squirrelflight padded ahead, scanning the forest to find the easiest route. Snow fell in beside her 
as she led the way up a gentle rise where the trees grew so thickly that the brambles had died away. 
She looked back as she reached the top. Tempest and Hawk walkedslowly, their gazes dark with 
concentration as they carried their campmate. Mousewhisker and Larksong pressed close, matching 
the Sisters’ steps paw for paw. Sunrise lay limply across their backs. “We have to hurry." 

As Squirrelflight picked up the pace, Sparkpelt caught up to them. “Sunrise is still breathing, but 
only just." 

Squirrelflight kept her gaze on the trail. “We’ll get her home in time." She hoped it was true. 

“Alderheart will know what to do," Sparkpelt mewed. 

“I didn't know if you would help." Snow blinked gratefully at Squirrelflight. “But I had to do 
something. We were so far from home." 

“What were you doing here?" Squirrelflight returned her gaze. “You уе never trespassed on Clan 
land before." 

Snow’s eyes darkened. “You’re not the only Clan cats who are suddenly interested in the land 
we're using." 

Squirrelflight's belly tightened. “What do you mean?" 

“Yesterday, we smelled Clan scent on our side of your border," Snow explained. “Hawk thought 
you'd sent a patrol back, but you'd promised to leave us alone. Then Moonlight noticed that it was a 
different Clan scent and sent me, Tempest, Hawk, and Sunrise to investigate." 


Sparkpelt pricked her ears. “Do you know which Clan it was?” 

Snow shrugged. “Warriors all smell the same to me. We followed the scent into the pine forest 
that borders yours.” 

“ShadowClan!” Sparkpelt glanced at her mother. Why were they suddenly interested in the 
Sisters’ land? Squirrelflight’s pelt prickled uneasily. Had her suggestion at the meeting woken 
ShadowClan’s curiosity about the land outside their border? Perhaps they wanted to check the land 
out for SkyClan too. Foreboding dropped like a stone in Squirrelflight’s belly. Were they planning to 
take the land for themselves? 

Sparkpelt blinked at Snow. “Is that how Sunrise got injured? Fighting with ShadowClan?” 

Snow nodded. “We tracked two toms across the border and followed them into their territory. We 
stopped them and asked them what they were doing there. They attacked us.” 

Squirrelflight flicked her tail nervously. How would she explain to ThunderClan that Sunrise had 
been hurt fighting Clan cats? She pushed the worry away. The Sisters” fight had been with 
ShadowClan, not ThunderClan. Until a few moons ago, ShadowClan had been their enemy. Why 
should ThunderClan defend them? 

“We hurt them pretty good,” Snow meowed with obvious satisfaction. “But one of them— 
Stonewing, I think that’s what the other cat called him—managed to slice open Sunrise's flank before 
they ran away." 

Sparkpelt's eyes glittered with alarm. “Should we help cats who hurt ShadowClan?" 

Squirrelflight lifted her chin defiantly. "We're not ShadowClan’s protectors. Besides, the Sisters 
were defending themselves." 

“But Tigerstar won't be pleased if he finds out.” 

“Why should we behave without honor just to suit Tigerstar?" Squirrelflight returned Sparkpelt's 
gaze. 

“Is that what Bramblestar would say?" 

"Sunrise could die from this injury. If Bramblestar is more interested in pleasing ShadowClan 
than saving another cat's life, then he's not the cat I thought he was." Squirrelflight could see the camp 
in the distance. She glanced back at the others. We're nearly there.” 

As she spoke, the bracken rustled ahead. Rosepetal and Bristlepaw burst out. They pulled up a 
tail-length from Squirrelflight, their eyes widening. 

“What's going on?" Rosepetal looked past her to the Sisters. 

“We found a wounded cat in the forest," Squirrelflight told her. “She needs our help." 

Bristlepaw's pelt bushed. *Rogues!" 

Snow dipped her head to the young she-cat. “We”re the Sisters.” 

“The Sisters!” Bristlepaw stared at her. “What are you doing on our land?" 

Squirrelflight pushed on. “Pll explain later.” She padded down the slope toward the hollow and 
ducked through the tunnel into camp. “Jayfeather! Leafpool! Alderheart!” She called to the medicine 
cats as Larksong, Tempest, Hawk, and Mousewhisker carried Sunrise into the clearing and laid her 
down on the sunbaked earth. 

Alderheart hurried from the medicine den, Leafpool at his tail. Jayfeather followed, his nose 
twitching. “Who’s bleeding?" The blind medicine cat paused, his hackles lifting. “What are rogues 
doing here?” 

“They’re not rogues.” Squirrelflight swept her gaze around the camp. Thornclaw was staring in 
amazement from beside the fresh-kill pile. Below the Highledge, Berrynose and Birchfall were 
sharing a rabbit. They blinked at the Sisters, hostility glittering in their gaze. Outside the warriors’ 


den, Twigbranch and Finleap climbed warily to their paws. Hollytuft waved Flippaw back with her 
tail as the apprentice arched his back and hissed at Snow. Graystripe pushed away the mouse he was 
eating and narrowed his eyes. Squirrelflight ignored the tension sparking in the camp. “One of the 
Sisters needs our help.” 

Stones clattered on the rock tumble. “What's going on?” Bramblestar leaped down from 
Highledge. He stopped beside Squirrelflight and glared at her accusingly. 

“Sunrise is injured," Squirrelflight told him. “She needs a medicine cat.” 

Sparkpelt moved closer to her mother. “Squirrelflight was scared Sunrise might die.” 

Bramblestar narrowed his gaze. 

“ГИ fetch cobwebs.” Leafpool turned back toward the medicine den. 

“Stop!” Bramblestar yowled with a flick of his tail. 

Leafpool froze. 

Squirrelflight stared at him. *Aren't you going to help her?" 

He thrust his muzzle closer. “Why are you putting me in this position?” he hissed, so low only she 
and Sparkpelt could hear. “I thought I told you to run decisions past me first.” 

“Squirrelflight just wanted to help,” Sparkpelt told her father earnestly. 

“It's okay, Sparkpelt.” Squirrelflight was grateful to her daughter, but this wasn't Sparkpelt’s 
fight. She jerked her nose toward Sunrise, who lay unmoving in the clearing, her blood staining the 
ground. “I didn't think there was time for a meeting,” she growled icily. 

Bumblestripe padded forward. You're going to help her, right?" 

Thornclaw lashed his tail. “Why should we? We’ve only just rescued our Clanmates from these 
cats. We owe them nothing.” 

“But she”s hurt.” Finleap stared at the dark warrior in surprise. 

Leafpool blinked at Bramblestar. “I can't stand by and watch her suffer.” 

Alderheart padded to her side. “That’s not the medicine-cat way.” 

“We can't let her die." Mousewhisker gazed around his Clanmates. His pelt was stained with 
Sunrise's blood. 

Blossomfall glared at him. *Didn't you hear Hawk say they attacked a ShadowClan patrol?" 

Mousewhisker narrowed his eyes. “ShadowClan invaded their territory.” 

“Two warriors doesn't make an invasion!” Blossomfall hissed back. “The ShadowClan cats were 
outnumbered. These Sisters shouldn't have attacked them." 

Thornclaw lashed his tail. “We can't treat rogues who attack warriors." 

Hollytuft puffed out her chest. “The Sisters took our deputy captive and invaded ShadowClan 
land. They're no better than Darktail’s Kin were. If we treat this cat, we'll make our enemies 
stronger." 

Tempest blinked at her in surprise. ^We're not your enemy." 

“You held Squirrelflight hostage," Hollytuft shot back. 

*You attacked ShadowClan," Birchfall snarled. 

“Send them back to where they came from," Thornclaw yowled. 

“Get them out of our camp!" Blossomfall chimed. 

Squirrelflight's throat tightened. How could her Clanmates turn away such a gravely injured cat? 
She felt Sparkpelt move nervously beside her. Did her daughter want to send Sunrise away too? 

Twigbranch padded forward. “It doesn’t matter what they've done. Sunrise might die if we send 
her away." 

“ThunderClan mustn't have another cat's blood on their paws," Finleap meowed in agreement. 


His Clanmates glanced uneasily at each other, as though they were unconvinced. 

“What will Tigerstar say if he finds out we've taken her in?” Birchfall nodded toward the Sisters. 

“Since when do we let Tigerstar dictate how we act?” Mousewhisker flicked his tail angrily. He 
looked at Bramblestar. “We can't let this cat die.” 

Bramblestar looked around his Clan. Anger flared in Thornclaw”s eyes. Birchfall’s ears twitched 
menacingly. Twigbranch and Finleap stared at him. “StarClan must decide,” Bramblestar announced 
with a jerk of his muzzle toward Jayfeather. “Take Alderheart to the Moonpool and share with our 
ancestors. They will tell us what to do.” 

Squirrelflight blinked at him in surprise. “What does StarClan have to do with this? Do we need 
them to tell us how to be honorable?” 

Bramblestar gazed back at her coldly. “These cats have threatened you and attacked ShadowClan. 
They clearly don't care who they harm or how. If we treat this cat, we show them we can be pushed 
around. And we might make an enemy of Tigerstar forever. StarClan has already told us that the Clans 
must stand together. For all we know, helping the Sisters might be no better than helping Darktail. We 
need StarClan’s guidance. Jayfeather and Alderheart will travel to the Moonpool.” 

Hawk blinked at him. “Is the Moonpool far?” 

Tempest padded closer. There's no time to consult with ancestors." Panic edged her mew. 

“We have no choice.” Bramblestar turned to Jayfeather. “Be as quick as you can.” 

Squirrelflight could hardly believe her ears. Was Bramblestar going to risk this cat’s life? He 
should act, not question. “We have to help,” she breathed. 

Bramblestar didn't look at her. Instead he blinked at Leafpool. “Can you keep Sunrise alive until 
Alderheart and Jayfeather return?” 

Leafpool stared anxiously at the bleeding cat. “ТП do my best.” 

As Jayfeather and Alderheart hurried toward the camp entrance, she ducked into the medicine den 
and returned with a thick wad of cobweb between her jaws. 

Squirrelflight followed her to where Sunrise lay unconscious and hardly breathing. “Don't let her 
die,” she whispered. 

Leafpool began to draw the edges of ће wound together. “If I can stop the bleeding—" 

Squirrelflight hardly heard her. “How could Bramblestar let this happen?" 

“He has to listen to his warriors.” Leafpool wadded cobweb along the gash. 

“Even when they're wrong?” Squirrelflight remembered how tenderly the Sisters had treated 
Leafstar’s wound. Her heart seemed to twist inside her chest. Suddenly there seemed more honor 
among the Sisters than among her Clanmates. If Sunrise died because of ThunderClan's fox- 
heartedness, she wasn't sure if she'd be able to forgive them. 





CHAPTER 9 


Se 


Leafpool sat back on her haunches. “Pve stopped the bleeding for now.” 

Anxiously, Squirrelflight sniffed the cobwebs wadded around the gash on Sunrise”s flank. The 
blood there was growing stale. But Sunrise was still not moving; her eyes were closed and her 
breathing was shallow. The clearing beneath her was still damp with her blood. 

Leafpool went on. “I need to make an ointment to keep infection at bay." She glanced toward the 
medicine den and then at Bramblestar. 

The ThunderClan leader had padded to the entrance, where Alderheart and Jayfeather had 
disappeared a few moments earlier. He met Leafpool’s gaze. 

“May I fetch herbs?" she asked. 

Please say yes. As Squirrelflight blinked at him hopefully, a growl rumbled in Thornclaw’s 
throat. The warrior was glaring at the Sisters, who pressed close together at the edge of the clearing. 
His gaze flicked accusingly at Leafpool. “We’re waiting for word from StarClan.” 

Blossomfall fluffed out her pelt beside him. “We can't do anything until they tell us it’s okay.” 

Squirrelflight stared at them, shocked by their coldness. “But she might die while we’re waiting. 
What if StarClan says we can treat her then? We won't be able to treat a corpse.” 

Bramblestar crossed the clearing and stopped beside Leafpool. “Just keep her alive until 
Jayfeather and Alderheart return.” 

Leafpool straightened. “The Moonpool is a long way. They won't be back before moonhigh. The 
only way I can keep her alive is to stop infection forming in the wound.” As she spoke, Sunrise 
stirred. She slowly opened her eyes and, with a flick of her tail, tried to lıft her head. 

Bramblestar whisked his tail. “She looks strong,” he growled. *She'll be okay.” 

“She won't be unless I put ointment on the wound." Leafpool's fur twitched anxiously along her 
spine. 

Snow crept closer to Sunrise. Fear showed in the she-cat's eyes. “Keep still," she breathed to her 
wounded campmate. “You’ll reopen the wound.” 

Bramblestar glared at her. “Get back with the others." 

As Snow flattened her ears and backed away, anger flared in Squirrelflight's belly. Was 
Bramblestar going to deny Sunrise even the comfort of her campmates? The Sisters had been far 
kinder to her when she'd been in their camp. 

Outside the warriors’ den, Mousewhisker shifted his paws. “Should we move her to the medicine 
den?" 

Larksong lifted his tail hopefully. “We could carry her there.” 

*She'll be more comfortable out of the sun," Sparkpelt mewed. 

Bramblestar glanced at them. *She'll stay where we can see her until Jayfeather and Alderheart 
bring word from StarClan." 

Finleap padded forward. “Can we at least make her more comfortable?" 

“I can fetch ferns,” Twigbranch offered. 

Bramblestar nodded, his gaze hard. “Very well.” He turned away as they hurried out of camp. 

Squirrelflight wanted to go with them, to make sure they picked the softest leaves, but she couldn't 
leave Sunrise. Someone had to fight for her. 


The thorn tunnel shivered, and Hollytuft and Dewnose ducked into camp. Flippaw and Thriftpaw 
padded at their heels. They stopped as they saw the Sisters. 

Hollytuft's eyes widened. “What's going on?" She looked at Sunrise. 

“This cat has been hurt," Bramblestar told her. “Leafpool is taking care of her until we get word 
from StarClan." 

“Word?” Hollytuft looked confused. “About what?" 

Thornclaw crossed the clearing and stopped beside Bramblestar. “About whether we should treat 
her wounds." 

Dewnose tipped his head. *Why do you need StarClan to decide?" 

“These cats attacked a ShadowClan patrol," Blossomfall grunted. 

Flippaw frowned. “I thought the Sisters never strayed onto Clan land.” 

Thriftpaw's hackles lifted. “Perhaps they think they can go where they like now." 

"Rest," Leafpool breathed, touching her nose to Sunrise's cheek. She looked at Bramblestar again. 
“Can I get her poppy seeds?" she meowed. “She”s in pain. Let me help—" 

Thornclaw cut her off. “Why should we share our herbs?" 

“I can't watch her suffer." Leafpool blinked at him. 

As Thornclaw held her sister's gaze, Squirrelflight felt sick: Why had she brought the Sisters 
here? She'd trusted her Clanmates to take care of them. How could she have been so wrong? 

“Poppy seeds can wait" Bramblestar flicked his tail briskly. “Flippaw and Thriftpaw,” he 
meowed. “Go and help Finleap and Twigbranch find ferns." He nodded to Blossomfall. “Take 
Hollytuft and Mousewhisker hunting. We have extra mouths to feed. Rosepetal and Bristlepaw can 
help Birchfall strengthen the walls of the nursery." His gaze swept the Clan. *We can't ignore our 
duties just because we have visitors." 

Thornclaw narrowed his eyes. ^Are we sharing our fresh-kill with them?" He eyed Hawk and 
Tempest resentfully. 

Tempest lifted her chin. “We can catch our own prey," she meowed. 

Birchfall bristled. “Do you think we'd let you hunt on our land?” 

Bramblestar looked suddenly weary. “They must eat, and since they can't hunt here, they must 
share our prey." 

Squirrelflight couldn't help feeling a jab of pity for him. Every Clanmate seemed to want 
something different. How could he please them all? Guilt pricked momentarily beneath her pelt. Was 
she judging him too harshly? 

Rosepetal and Bristlepaw headed toward the nursery, Birchfall at their heels, while Blossomfall 
led Hollytuft and Mousewhisker out of camp. 

“Go with the hunting patrol," Bramblestar ordered, nodding to Larksong. 

Larksong hesitated. “Pd rather stay with Sparkpelt." 

Bramblestar stiffened. “Your patrol needs you." 

“Can Sparkpelt come with me?" Larksong asked. “Squirrelflight let us join the same patrols. Now 
that she's expecting kits, I don't like to be away from—" 

Squirrelflight flinched as Bramblestar swung his muzzle toward the black tom. 

“I don't care what Squirrelflight did,” he hissed. “Sparkpelt will be safe here with her Clan. Go 
join your patrol, as I ordered." 

Sparkpelt blinked reassuringly at Larksong. “P11 be okay,” she promised. 

As Larksong dipped his head and hurried away, Squirrelflight glared at Bramblestar. How long 
was he going to keep trying to prove that he made the rules in ThunderClan, not her? 


He stared back. “I want to speak with you in my den. You need to explain why your patrol brought 
the Sisters here.” 

Squirrelflight’s paws pricked. Did he want another argument, even while a cat lay dying in the 
clearing? As he leaped up the rock tumble, she looked at Leafpool. “Will you be okay here?” 

“Yes.” Leafpool was watching Sunrise. “P1 do what сап.” 

Squirrelflight straightened and headed for the rock tumble. 

"I'm coming too." Sparkpelt's mew surprised her. “I was part of the patrol.” 

“No.” Squirrelflight felt a surge of affection for her daughter. “The decision was my 
responsibility.” 

Sparkpelt stuck out her chin. “I said I’m coming with you.” 

Squirrelflight dipped her head. She didn’t want to argue with Sparkpelt too. She scrambled up the 
rock tumble, stones crunching beneath her paws. Sparkpelt followed and ducked after her into 
Bramblestar’s den. 

Bramblestar sat in the shadowy cave, his gaze icy. His ears twitched as he saw Sparkpelt. “I 
didn't ask to speak with you.” 

Sparkpelt met his gaze. “You said you wanted an explanation,” she mewed evenly. “I was on the 
patrol. I can help.” 

Bramblestar grunted and flicked his gaze to Squirrelflight. “Why in StarClan did you bring them 
here?” Anger hardened his mew. 

Squirrelflight bristled, pulling up short. “What did you want me to do? Leave Sunrise to die in the 
woods?” 

“What would they have done if you hadn’t found them?” Bramblestar didn’t wait for her answer. 
“They would have taken their wounded home where they belong instead of making their problem our 
problem.” 

“But I did find them.” Squirrelflight defended herself. She was not going to let him make her feel 
bad for trying to save a cat's life. “I couldn't turn my back on them.” 

Sparkpelt blinked at Bramblestar. “You couldn't have expected us to walk away.” 

“You could have taken them to the border and let their campmates take care of them.” 
Bramblestar's fur spiked along his spine. *Did you know they'd attacked a ShadowClan patrol when 
you brought them here?" 

“Snow told me on the way to camp," Squirrelflight told him. *ShadowClan had been on their 
land. They were only trying to find out why. They didn't go looking for a fight." 

“Do you think that's how Tigerstar will see 1t?" Bramblestar's gaze darkened. “How will he react 
when he finds out we're protecting them?" 

Squirrelflight could hardly believe her ears. “Since when do you care what Tigerstar thinks?" 

“Since StarClan told us there must be unity among the Clans!” 

“So you'd let a cat die because Tigerstar might be upset?" 

“I thought you wanted to keep the peace. Do you think this will help?” 

Squirrelflight lifted her chin. “The Clans will understand when they find out what happened. We 
all follow the same code, and that code says nothing about letting cats die." 

“It does say something about protecting your Clan," Bramblestar spat back. “How can you think 
that bringing a bunch of rogues into our camp is protecting ThunderClan?" 

"They're not rogues!” 

"They're not loners or warriors." Bramblestar curled his claws into the sandy floor of the cave. 
“What were you thinking when you decided to bring them into our camp?" 


Frustration surged in Squirrelflight’s chest. “I was trying to save a cat’s life. And they’re not 
rogues! They’re the Sisters! There are more ways to live than being a warrior or a rogue!” 

Bramblestar lashed his tail. “You spend two days in another camp and suddenly you’re 
questioning our beliefs?” 

“Tm not questioning our beliefs. I’m just pointing out that there are other ways to live." 

“And how does that solve the problem that we are sheltering ShadowClan's attackers? How does 
that bring unity to the Clans?" 

“Not everything is about the Clans!” Anger burned beneath Squirrelflight's pelt. There seemed so 
much more at stake here than whether the Clans were united. “What about the warrior code? What 
about honor and integrity? What about doing the right thing?" 

“So you're the only cat who knows what's right?" 

Squirrelflight felt Sparkpelt press against her. 

“Please don't—" Her daughter's mew turned into a gasp. With a jerk, Sparkpelt dropped into a 
crouch. 

Heart lurching, Squirrelflight twisted toward her. “Sparkpelt? What's wrong?" 

“Cramp.” Sparkpelt's eyes were glittering with pain. “My belly! The kits." Fear edged her mew. 

Squirrelflight forced her fur to smooth. “Take a breath," she mewed. She lapped at Sparkpelt's 
shoulder, trying to calm her as she'd done when Sparkpelt was a kit. Her thoughts whirled. Were the 
kits coming? It was too early. She caught Bramblestar's eye. 

He was leaning toward Sparkpelt, anxiety sparking in his gaze. “Fetch Leafpool.” 

“Wait.” Sparkpelt blinked at her father. “It will pass. It's happened before. When I get upset." 

Guilt seared Squirrelflight's pelt. Had she and Bramblestar caused this? “It’s okay, Sparkpelt.” 
She pressed closer. “We won't argue anymore. The kits will be fine.” 

“Will they?" Sparkpelt looked at her with round, anxious eyes. 

“Of course." She remembered her own pregnancy. “I used to get cramps too. Usually when I'd 
eaten too much fresh-kill. It doesn't mean there's anything wrong." 

Bramblestar was staring at her. “Should I fetch Leafpool?" 

“Is the cramp easing?" Squirrelflight blinked at Sparkpelt. 

“Yes.” Pain still showed in her daughter's gaze, but her body was relaxing. 

"Leave Leafpool with Sunrise for now," Squirrelflight mewed softly. She touched her nose to 
Sparkpelt's ear. “Cramps are normal. You just need to make sure you rest and don't get upset. In the 
days before Alderheart and you were born, I used to run to Jayfeather every night, certain the kits 
were coming too soon. He'd check me over, tell me there was nothing wrong, and send me back to the 
nursery. When the kits finally came, Daisy had to drag him out of his nest. He kept waving her away, 
telling her that I was just imagining the pain." She purred, the memory washing away her fear. “Can 
you imagine his surprise when he arrived to find you already born and Alderheart on the way? He 
stomped around the camp for a quarter moon, grumbling about queens who couldn't tell the difference 
between birth pains and indigestion." 

A pang of longing tugged at her belly. If only she could have kits again. As the memory of her first 
litter filled her heart, she glanced at Bramblestar. He was listening, his gaze soft for the first time in 
days. He caught her eye and she saw love there. For a moment, it was as if they'd never quarreled. 
They'd been so happy together for so long that it seemed dumb to be arguing. 

She blinked at him hopefully. If he was softening, was he ready to change his mind about the 
Sisters? “Please will you let Leafpool treat Sunrise?" 

His gaze hardened in an instant. “Why don't you understand?" he snapped. “I can't help an enemy 


of the Clans without StarClan's blessing." 

As he looked away, pain tightened its grip on Squirrelflight’s heart once more. He wasn’t ready to 
see sense. 

He nodded curtly. “Td better check to see that the Clan's okay.” Stalking past them, he padded 
from the den. 

“Don’t worry." Squirrelflight brushed her cheek against Sparkpelt's. “It’s all going to be fine.” 
She wondered who she was reassuring, herself or Sparkpelt. “Stay here and rest. I'll go and see if 
he's all right. And ГІІ send Leafpool to check on you when she can." 

Sparkpelt blinked at her gratefully and touched her nose to her mother's. *Be kind to him." 

Squirrelflight flinched. / wish he'd be kind to me. 

Bramblestar was talking with Thornclaw, their heads bent, as Squirrelflight scrambled down the 
rock tumble. She hesitated beside them, but they turned away and carried on talking. Disappointed, 
she walked on and stopped beside Leafpool. Thriftpaw and Twigbranch were gently tucking fern 
leaves around Sunrise. The wounded Sister hardly moved as they tried to make her comfortable. Pain 
glazed her eyes. “She needs poppy seeds," Squirrelflight whispered to Leafpool. 

“And marigold." Leafpool touched a paw to Sunrise's flank. “I don't like how hot she's getting. It 
might be the beginning of infection." 

Snow, who was watching from the edge of the clearing, leaned forward. “Why don't you do 
something?" 

Leafpool glanced at Bramblestar. “I have to obey him," she whispered to the white she-cat. 

Snow stared at her. “Can't you think and act for yourselves?" Frustration edged her mew. “First 
you have to consult with dead cats to see if you can treat her, and now you don't dare help a suffering 
cat because a tom tells you not to." 

“He’s our leader," Leafpool told her. 

As she spoke, Thornclaw lifted his gaze and glared at Snow. “Stop talking,” he hissed. 

Squirrelflight's pelt prickled with anger. Had Thornclaw forgotten what it was like to need help? 
She shifted as Twigbranch nosed her softly aside and pressed a fern beneath Sunrise's shoulder. 
"Thank you." She blinked gratefully at the young warrior, relieved that not all her Clanmates were 
acting like fox-hearts, and leaned closer to Leafpool. “Can you check on Sparkpelt? She's in 
Bramblestar's den. She had some cramps. They've passed now, but I think she needs reassuring.” 

Leafpool nodded toward Sunrise. “Can you keep an eye on her?" 

“Of course." Squirrelflight settled beside Sunrise, pressing her flank along the wounded cat’s 
spine. Her heart ached as she watched her sister pad wordlessly past Bramblestar and climb the rock 
tumble. When had Bramblestar become so heartless? Did he really believe that Clan unity was worth 
paying for in another cat's blood? 


Squirrelflight could see stars twinkling through the leafy canopy. The moon was high, and her 
Clanmates sat stiffly around the clearing, murmuring softly to one another, their gazes never straying 
for long from Hawk, Tempest, and Snow. She pressed closer to Leafpool. Beside them, Sunrise's 
breath had quickened and grown shallow. 

Surely Jayfeather and Alderheart must return soon. Had StarClan given an answer? Squirrelflight 
sent another desperate prayer toward the glittering sky. Please let us treat her. Sunrise had slipped 
into unconsciousness as the sun had slipped below the trees. At least it won t hurt now, Squirrelflight 
had thought. 

Leafpool had settled Sparkpelt into the nursery, where Daisy could keep an eye on her and 


reassure her if necessary. Larksong was there too. He’d hurried to check on Sparkpelt as soon as he’d 
returned with the hunting patrol. 

Squirrelflight fluffed her pelt against the evening chill. “Shouldn’t Jayfeather and Alderheart be 
back by now?" she whispered to Leafpool. 

"They'll be here soon," Leafpool murmured. 

As Bramblestar paced beneath the Highledge, Thornclaw sat motionless, eyes glinting like quartz 
in the moonlight. Birchfall, Blossomfall, Hollytuft, and Flippaw had gathered around the old warrior, 
and they sat close, staring with undisguised hostility at the Sisters. 

Bramblestar had kept his word and shared the patrol's catch with their visitors, but the Sisters had 
eaten little. They had edged nearer to Sunrise, close enough now to breathe in her scent, which had 
grown hotter and sourer as the evening had drawn in. 

“I pray StarClan will let us treat her," Leafpool murmured. “The wound is festering already. She 
needs those herbs." 

Squirrelflight's heart quickened. Even she could see the swelling around the gash on Sunrise's 
flank. The cobweb was soggy now and couldn't hide the fiery red flesh beneath. 

She pricked her ears as paw steps sounded outside the stone hollow. Bramblestar halted as the 
Clan shifted nervously around the edge of the clearing. Thornclaw got to his paws as Jayfeather led 
Alderheart into camp. Squirrelflight jumped up, straining to read Alderheart's expression. His round 
amber eyes gave nothing away. 

“Well?” Bramblestar crossed the clearing to meet the two medicine cats. “What did StarClan 
say?" 

Alderheart frowned. *We're not quite sure." 

Bramblestar's pelt rippled along his spine. “But you're medicine cats! You must know. Did they 
say anything?" 

“I had a vision,” Jayfeather told him. “I spoke to Hollyleaf.” 

Squirrelflight held her breath. Surely StarClan must have told him they could treat Sunrise! 
Perhaps Jayfeather hadn't understood their message. “What did she say?" 

The medicine cat turned his blind blue gaze on her. “She said that clouds from the mountains will 
make it difficult to tell friend from enemy. But if the Clans stay united, the way forward will be 
clear." 

Thornclaw grunted. “Clouds from the mountains . . .”” He stared at the Sisters. “I think the 
message is clear. These cats bring trouble. We must send them away." 

“No!” Squirrelflight hurried forward. “The message doesn't say they are the enemy, only that 
clouds will make it hard to tell who the enemy is.” 

Bramblestar frowned. “But they say the Clans must stay united. If we treat this cat, Tigerstar will 
see it as betrayal." 

“You don't know that!” Squirrelflight flicked her tail angrily. “Sunrise needs herbs. Her wound is 
infected. StarClan would not ask us to let her die. And if they did, perhaps we shouldn't be listening 
to them." Silence gripped the Clan, and a chill ran beneath her pelt. 

Bramblestar looked at her in disbelief. “If we turn our tails on StarClan, then we might as well 
turn our tails on the whole warrior code." His gaze hardened. “We might as well live like them." He 
flicked his muzzle toward Tempest, Hawk, and Snow. “Or would you prefer that?" 

“Of course I wouldn't prefer that, but I can't stand by and let you decide to let a cat die. It's 
wrong!" 

Thornclaw's ears twitched. “And what if the future of the Clans depends on it?" 


Mousewhisker padded forward. “No future is decided by a single life!” 

“We can't ignore StarClan!” Blossomfall called. 

“We can't sit by while a cat suffers,” Twigbranch countered. 

Murmuring spread among the watching cats, as ears flattened and pelts prickled. 

Squirrelflight looked imploringly at Bramblestar. “You have to decide! You have to save this cat!” 

Bramblestar returned her gaze, his eyes glistening with doubt. “I can only try to do what's best.” 

Tempest started forward. We'll take her home. She can at least die among friends.” 

“You should never have brought her here in the first place!” Thornclaw spat. 

As Hawk and Snow clustered protectively around their campmate, Leafpool got to her paws. 
“You can argue until dawn for all I care." She turned toward the medicine den. “All I know is that 
StarClan hasn't told us to let this cat die. Pm fetching herbs to treat her. I will not sit vigil for a cat I 
could have saved." She began to head across the clearing. 

“No!” Bramblestar leaped in front of her, squaring his shoulders as he stared at her. Leafpool 
froze, her eyes wide. 

Squirrelflight's paws seemed rooted to the ground. Was Bramblestar going to fight her sister to 
stop her treating a wounded cat? As she blinked in disbelief, Sunrise let out a low groan. She was 
dying! Energy surged beneath Squirrelflight's pelt. She crossed the clearing and pushed in front of 
Leafpool, meeting Bramblestar's fierce gaze with her own. “Let her go," she growled. 

Bramblestar stared at her miserably. ^We can't keep doing this," he whispered only loud enough 
for her to hear. Desperation edged his mew. “If you keep undermining my authority, you could destroy 
the whole Clan." 

Squirrelflight held her ground. “I have to do what I think is right.” 

“Even if it costs you your Clan?” 

“ThunderClan is stronger than that,” Squirrel flight spat. “At least I hope it is. If our future depends 
on letting a cat die, then it’s not the Clan I thought it was.” 

Bramblestar stared at her. Uncertainty glittered in his gaze. “Why are you doing this to me?” His 
words pierced her heart. “You”re my deputy. You're my mate. You're supposed to support me.” 

“Being a good deputy doesn’t mean blindly following orders.” Squirrelflight didn’t move. “It 
means standing up for what I believe, and this time, I believe I’m right.” The camp seemed to swim 
around her. She knew she was hurting him. But she had to convince him. As the Clan watched her 
silently, their eyes round in the moonlight, Bramblestar backed away. 

His gaze flicked to Leafpool. “If you insist on treating Sunrise, go ahead. But take her to the 
medicine den. If she’s out of sight, perhaps the Clan will feel less angry.” He nodded toward the 
Sisters. “They can stay in the elders’ den. Berrynose and Bumblestripe will stand guard tonight. Move 
Millie, Brightheart, Cloudtail, and Graystripe to the nursery.” Around him, the Clan got to their paws. 
Mousewhisker and Twigbranch helped Tempest and Hawk lift Sunrise. Leafpool nosed her way into 
the medicine den. Bramblestar narrowed his eyes, his face like stone. Squirrelflight tried to drag her 
gaze from his, her heart cracking as he curled his lip. “StarClan wanted unity among the Clans,” he 
snarled. “Thanks to you, there’s not even unity in ThunderClan anymore.” 





CHAPTER 10 


* 


Soft waves swished against the pebbles at the edge of the lake. A bright full moon dappled the water. 
Squirrelflight gazed toward the island as she padded along the shore toward the Gathering. Would 
Harestar and Tigerstar bring up the question of borders again? She glanced at Bramblestar beside her. 
“What are you going to tell them?" Would he mention that the Sisters were still in the ThunderClan 
camp nearly a quarter moon after they'd arrived? 

“Nothing.” He nodded toward the patrol of SkyClan cats in the distance, waiting to cross the tree- 
bridge. "Let the others do the talking. I have nothing to say." 

They had hardly spoken in the past few days, not even trying to hide the rift between them from the 
Clan. Squirrelflight had grown used to keeping her thoughts to herself. From time to time, she missed 
the closeness she had once shared with Bramblestar, with a pang of grief that startled her. But tonight 
there seemed to be an unspoken agreement between them that, in front of the other Clans, they would 
pretend that nothing had changed. The ThunderClan patrol followed quietly, murmuring to one 
another. In the days since the Sisters had come to the camp, the Clan had been tense. At least Sunrise 
was healing thanks to Leafpool's treatment. Leafpool had remained in camp tonight to watch over her. 
Hawk, Tempest, and Snow were still in the elders' den. 

“What do we tell the other Clans if they ask about the Sisters?" Thornclaw's terse mew sounded 
behind her. 

Bramblestar glanced back at the tabby warrior. There's no need for them to ask. As far as we 
know, the other Clans don't know that they are staying with us." 

Hollytuft flicked her tail irritably. “But what if they ask if we've seen them? ShadowClan is 
bound to mention the attack on their patrol." 

“We tell them we know nothing." Bramblestar jerked his muzzle forward, the fur prickling 
uneasily along his spine. 

“You want us to lie?" Thornclaw frowned. 

“Yes.” Bramblestar kept his gaze ahead. 

“We should have sent them home already," Bristlepaw growled. 

Alderheart glanced at the young she-cat. “Sunrise needs more time to heal properly." 

"The others aren't wounded," Bristlepaw shot back. The she-cat's gray pelt bristled. “They 
should have left days ago." 

Irritation sparked in Squirrelflight's pelt. "They wanted to stay with their campmate." 

Thornclaw huffed. “Who cares what they want? Did they care what we wanted when they held 
you captive? Who knows what they'd have done to you 1f we hadn't turned up and threatened to shred 
them!" 

Alderheart lifted his chin. “Sunrise will be able to travel in a few days. Then they can all leave 
and things can go back to normal." 

Squirrelflight's paws felt heavy. She wasn't sure things could ever go back to normal—for her 
and Bramblestar, at least. They'd argued too much over the past moon. So much had been said that 
couldn't be taken back. Her heart ached as she wondered if they'd ever be close again. She quickened 
her pace, eager to reach the island and let the clamor of voices and scents wash over her and crowd 
out her sense of loss. 


SkyClan had disappeared into the long grass on the far shore by the time she reached the tree- 
bridge. She waited for Bramblestar to cross first, then followed, leading her Clanmates onto the 
island. She nosed her way through the grass and emerged into the clearing. WindClan and 
ShadowClan moved silently to make room for ThunderClan, their gazes solemn. RiverClan watched 
stiffly from the edge of the clearing while SkyClan clustered at the base of the Great Oak, their wary 
gazes flitting around at the other cats. 

Tigerstar's gaze swung toward the ThunderClan cats and fixed darkly on Bramblestar. 
Squirrelflight tensed. Did the ShadowClan leader know that they were sheltering the Sisters? 

Bramblestar crossed the clearing and leaped onto the low branch of the Great Oak. He gazed 
expectantly at the other leaders. There would be no time for gossip tonight. 

Squirrelflight took her place on the arching roots of the oak. Hawkwing settled beside her as 
Crowfeather, Reedwhisker, and Cloverfoot joined them. Above them, Tigerstar sat beside 
Bramblestar. Mistystar followed, Harestar and Leafstar at her tail. The Clans drew closer, crowding 
beneath the oak's spreading branches, its shadow darkening their pelts. 

Bramblestar lifted his muzzle. “Prey is running well in ThunderClan’s forest—” 

Tigerstar interrupted. “There are more important matters to discuss than prey." His dark gaze 
swept over the Clans. “We have a new enemy at our border. We need to react." 

Murmurs of agreement rippled through the ShadowClan cats. WindClan's warriors were nodding 
solemnly. RiverClan cats exchanged knowing glances. 

Squirrelflight's belly tightened. “What enemy?" she called, though she was afraid she knew 
exactly who he meant. 

Tigerstar glared back at her. “You of all cats should know. They held you hostage, along with 
Leafstar. And now they have attacked and permanently wounded one of ShadowClan’s finest 
warriors." 

The fur lifted along Squirrelflight's spine. Permanently wounded? 

Bramblestar blinked innocently at Tigerstar. “What happened?" 

“The Sisters came onto ShadowClan land and attacked a patrol," Tigerstar told him. 

Squirrelflight's paws prickled with indignation. ShadowClan had gone onto the Sisters’ land first, 
surely. The Sisters had only tracked them to find out why they'd come. That was what Snow had told 
her. With a sickening feeling, she wondered which version of the story was true. 

Tigerstar went on. “They shredded Strikestone's ear. The wound was so deep that the infection 
was hard to treat. He will never hear in that ear again." 

Squirrelflight stiffened. She didn't realize Strikestone had been so badly injured. Growls of anger 
rose from the Clans. 

"Fox-hearts 

"They're no better than badgers!” 

Harestar leaned forward. “The Sisters are clearly a threat to the Clans." 

Tigerstar nodded. “We need to drive them away.” 

Squirrelflight stared at him. “There aren't enough of them to threaten us." 

Leafstar nodded. ^We outnumber them countless times." 

“They are big cats, and dangerous." Tigerstar stared at the SkyClan leader. “You saw that for 
yourself.” His gaze switched to Squirrelflight. “They could easily cross the border and pick off our 
patrols one by one." 

“They’d never do that!” Squirrelflight's ears twitched with indignation. “They are peaceful." 

“They don't look for fights," Leafstar chimed. 


“Tell that to Strikestone.” Tigerstar lashed his tail. 

Yowls erupted from the ShadowClan, WindClan, and RiverClan cats. 

“The Sisters must go!” 

“Drive them out!” 

Thornclaw watched them, satisfaction glittering in his gaze. Twigbranch and Molewhisker 
exchanged uneasy glances. 

Squirrelflight blinked helplessly at Hawkwing. “Why is he picking on the Sisters?” she 
whispered. “They couldn’t hurt us. They don’t want to hurt us!” 

Hawkwing met her gaze. “They permanently wounded one of his warriors,” he murmured through 
the yowling of the Clans. “He has to react. And don’t forget, ShadowClan nearly fell apart only a few 
moons ago. Tigerstar needs an enemy to unite his Clan behind him.” 

Squirrelflight blinked at him as she began to understand. “And if StarClan wants the Clans to be 
united, he has to pick a fight with outsiders.” 

"Exactly." Hawkwing's eyes glittered with unease. 

“You don’t think we should fight them, do you?” Squirrelflight was unnerved by the support of the 
other Clans for Tigerstar’s plan. 

“Why fight?” Hawkwing shrugged. **They'll be gone in a moon.” 

Above them, Bramblestar shifted on the branch. His tail swished ominously behind him as he 
stared out at the crowd. Gradually WindClan, RiverClan, and ShadowClan fell silent. Macgyver and 
Sandynose blinked up at him warily from among their Clanmates. ThunderClan's warriors moved 
closer to one another, avoiding the gazes of ће other Clans. 

“There 1s no need for war,” Bramblestar yowled. “The Sisters have promised to leave soon. Why 
fight a retreating enemy? It's better to let them go." 

Tigerstar flattened his ears. “It’s just like ThunderClan to defend the enemies of ShadowClan.” 

"Are you sure they're your enemy?" Bramblestar challenged. 

“They attacked us. They captured Leafstar." 

Leafstar's ears twitched. “We were trespassing on their land—" 

Tigerstar pressed on. “They took your deputy hostage. They should be your enemy too." Tigerstar 
stared at Bramblestar, then flicked his gaze toward the ThunderClan cats gathered below. “And yet 
ThunderClan is silent tonight. The Sisters were last seen heading for your territory. Their scent was 
detected on your border.” He narrowed his eyes as he looked back at Bramblestar. “Do you know 
something about the Sisters that we don't?" 

“Of course not." Bramblestar lashed his tail. 

Squirrelflight saw Thornclaw look away. Beside him, Molewhisker dropped his gaze as 
Bramblestar went on. 

“We haven't heard from the Sisters since they returned Leafstar and Squirrelflight to us 
unharmed.” 

Squirrelflight flinched. She hated hearing Bramblestar lie. 

Leafstar fluffed out her fur. “I’m not sure you need to declare war on them. They treated us kindly 
while we were with them.” 

Squirrelflight nodded eagerly, relieved that Leafstar was defending the Sisters. “They fed us and 
treated Leafstar’s wound.” 

Tigerstar huffed. “They caused Leafstar’s wound!” 

A breeze ruffled Harestar’s pelt. “WindClan agrees with ShadowClan,” he yowled. “StarClan has 
decreed that the Clans be united. So we stand with ShadowClan to honor our ancestors and strengthen 


our alliance.” 

Mistystar nodded slowly. “We stand with ShadowClan too. Leafstar has agreed to move to new 
territory—” 

Leafstar bristled. “That decision isn’t final!” 

“And yet it would solve all the Clans’ problems,” Mistystar countered. “We need the fishing land 
we gave to ShadowClan. WindClan needs their moorland back.” She blinked at the SkyClan leader. 
“The sooner we move the Sisters from your new territory, the sooner the Clans can reestablish their 
rightful borders.” 

Squirrelflight’s heart filled with dread. Three leaders were determined to fight the Sisters. And 
she could see by the excited murmuring of the watching cats that they had the full support of their 
Clanmates. How could she expect any cat to resist the promise of a return to their traditional borders? 
She looked helplessly at Bramblestar. Surely he could find a way to stop them! She searched his gaze 
expectantly. Was he going to defend the Sisters, despite everything? 

“We have a Clan mediator.” Bramblestar lifted his chin. “Why not use him?” 

Leafstar pricked her ears. “Tree.” She scanned the crowd, her gaze settling on the yellow SkyClan 
warrior. Tree blinked back at him, pelt bristling in surprise. “Could you go to the Sisters and 
persuade them that it is in everyone’s best interests for them to leave?” 

Tree’s gaze glittered with unease. “I mediate between the Clans, not with outsiders.” 

Mistystar narrowed her eyes. “But they’re not outsiders to you,” she told Tree. “They’re kin. 
Moonlight’s your mother, right?” 

Tree’s hackles lifted. “I barely know her. She forced me out when I was a kit.” 

“Tn that case you won’t mind asking her to leave,” Mistystar shot back. 

Tree looked away for a moment, then turned back to face Mistystar, clearly uncomfortable. “She 
won't listen to me,” he said finally. “Pm happy to be a Clan cat; I’m happy to do my duty by 
mediating between the Clans. But please, if it's all the same to you, I would like to be left out of this. I 
much prefer my life without Moonlight or the Sisters in it.” 

Squirrelflight stared at the yellow tom in surprise. She heard murmurs of sympathy, and some 
shocked exclamations. 

“So you want to be a Clan cat until we ask you do to something you’d rather not?” she heard 
Crowfeather mutter. 

Squirrelflight raised her voice. “I think we should listen to Tree,” she said, shooting Leafstar a 
glance. “Leafstar and I have seen the tension between him and Moonlight. Perhaps we should wait 
until we have no other voice.” 

Leafstar nodded at Squirrelflight, then raised her voice above the din. “Very well, Tree,” she said. 
“We’ll consider other options . . . for now. But if your connection to Moonlight might help—" 

“It won't,” Tree interrupted. 

Bramblestar heaved a sigh. “Let's move on,” he said. “In terms of moving the Sisters, I believe 
we must do nothing without the counsel of StarClan.” 

Hope flashed beneath Squirrelflight’s fur. Perhaps that would stall them. 

“StarClan has been silent lately," Harestar pointed out. “They must feel we can make our own 
decisions.” 

Squirrelflight saw Bramblestar hesitate. He pricked his ears, as though ready to speak, but said 
nothing. She wanted to call out for him, But StarClan isn t silent! They had shared with Jayfeather. 
But how could she tell them without giving away the secret of the Sisters” presence in the 
ThunderClan camp? Worse, if the Clans knew StarClan’s message, with its talk of enemies, it might 


convince them that StarClan wanted war against the Sisters. 

It was better to say nothing. 

Bramblestar dipped his gaze for a moment, then lifted it to meet Harestar’s once more. “They 
won't be silent on a matter of war,” he growled. “And there is no unity among the Clans in this plan. 
SkyClan isn't with you.” He glanced at Tigerstar. “And ThunderClan will not agree to any action 
against the Sisters without the approval of StarClan.” 

Squirrelflight felt a rush of pride. How could any leader argue with him? She watched as 
Tigerstar eyed Bramblestar ominously. 

Then the ShadowClan leader dipped his head. “Very well.” He exchanged glances with Harestar 
and Mistystar. “We will wait to hear from StarClan. Until then, we must all be vigilant. Who knows 
when the Sisters will strike again? And next time it might cost a cat more than their hearing.” As he 
leaped from the branch, his Clanmates gathered around him, eyeing ThunderClan and SkyClan 
defiantly. 

Mistystar and Harestar scrambled down the trunk, and Leafstar jumped after them. The SkyClan 
leader nodded politely to Squirrelflight as she passed. Squirrelflight nodded back, longing to know 
when she would make the final decision to move her Clan onto the Sisters’ territory. Suddenly she 
found herself hoping Leafstar would delay it. As long as she wasn’t sure she wanted the Sisters’ land, 
it would weaken the other Clans’ support for Tigerstar’s plan. 

Squirrelflight’s Clanmates were heading for the long grass. She watched them trail after the other 
Clans. 

“Trust Tigerstar to find an excuse to turn this into a war,” Jayfeather grumbled as he passed. 

Alderheart padded beside the blind medicine cat, nervously twitching his whiskers. “Do you think 
any of the Clans suspected?" 

“Hush!” Bumblestripe fell in beside him. “Let's wait until we get clear of the island before we 
say anything." 

Fur brushed Squirrelflight's flank. Bramblestar was beside her, staring after their Clanmates. His 
ears twitched uneasily. “Гуе made liars out of my whole Clan," he murmured. He looked accusingly 
at Squirrelflight. “Are the Sisters worth sacrificing our honor and our pride for?" 

Guilt wormed beneath Squirrelflight's pelt. She knew that asking his Clanmates to lie must have 
wounded Bramblestar deeply. “We couldn't have told the truth." She blinked at him. “Who knows 
what Tigerstar would have done?" 

“I warned you he'd react badly.” 

“We can't live in fear of what Tigerstar might do.” 

“But what Tigerstar does matters, whether you like it or not.” 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws uneasily. “He seems determined to drive the Sisters off their land." 

“Would it be such a bad thing if he did?" Bramblestar stared at her darkly. 

Squirrelflight blinked back at him, shocked. “Moonlight’s expecting kits," she gasped. “We have 
to protect them." 

Exasperation seemed to flash in his gaze. Was he irritated that she was still worrying about kits? 
“And who will protect Sparkpelt's kits if Tigerstar finds out we're sheltering his sworn enemy?" 

Squirrelflight's heart lurched. “He won't find out!” 

“We won't give him the chance." Bramblestar watched their Clanmates disappear into the long 
grass. “Sunrise and her campmates must leave our territory tonight.” 





CHAPTER 11 


Se 


Squirrelflight leaped down from the tree-bridge and headed along the shore. She could see the 
shapes of ShadowClan and WindClan, moving like shadows over the stony beach as they trekked 
back to their territories. RiverClan had already crossed the shore and disappeared into the marshes. 
Her paws pricked. How was she going to break the news to the Sisters that they had to leave now, in 
the middle of the night? 

Pebbles crunched behind her as Alderheart hurried at her heels. 

She glanced at him as he fell in beside her. *Do you think Sunrise is well enough to travel?" she 
asked. 

"She'll be okay if her campmates help her." Alderheart gazed across the lake as though his 
thoughts were elsewhere. “And she can rest once she's home." 

“Do you think it's fair?" Squirrelflight's tail twitched. 

“Do I think what's fair?" Alderheart looked at her. 

“To make them leave. Now. Before they're ready?" 

Alderheart returned her gaze steadily. “I think it's for the best." 

“For whose best?" Squirrelflight asked crossly. 

“Every cat’s.” Alderheart's hopped over a rotting branch that had washed onto the shore. “The 
Sisters will be safer on their own territory. And our Clanmates will be happier knowing they're gone. 
If Tigerstar wants war, it's dangerous having them in camp." 

Squirrelflight looked away. She knew Alderheart was right, but she wished the Sisters could have 
seen ThunderClan at its best. Her Clanmates hadn't always been so unwelcoming and defensive. The 
Sisters had come at a bad time. 

The patrol trailed behind them, murmuring to one another. Bumblestripe and Honeyfur walked 
side by side. Hollytuft shadowed Jayfeather while Bristlepaw and Thrifipaw padded behind. 
Bramblestar hung back with Thornclaw. As they neared camp, Squirrelflight's heart quickened. She 
wanted to break the news to the Sisters before Bramblestar ordered them out of camp. She turned and 
called to Bramblestar. “I’m going ahead to tell Leafpool that Sunrise has to leave.” 

Bramblestar narrowed his eyes. “Okay.” He nodded to Bumblestripe. “Go with her.” 

Squirrelflight stiffened. Was he sending Bumblestripe to keep her safe, or because he didn't trust 
her? What did he think she would do? Hole up in the medicine den and fight for the Sisters to stay? 

She nodded politely and pulled away from the patrol, breaking into a run. Bumblestripe fell in 
beside her and matched her, paw step for paw step, as she zigzagged between ferns and veered onto 
the rabbit trail that would bring her out close to the camp entrance. It was too narrow to run side by 
side here, and she slipped into the lead, speeding up as she neared home. She ducked first through the 
thorn tunnel and hurried into camp. 

The clearing was hidden in shadow. The Clan must be asleep. Only Whitewing's pelt showed on 
the far side of the clearing, bright in the moonlight. She hurried forward as she saw Squirrelflight. 
*Did ShadowClan know the Sisters are here?" she whispered anxiously. 

“No.” Squirrelflight flicked her tail as Bumblestripe followed her into camp. “Bumblestripe will 
tell you what happened." As Whitewing turned away Squirrelflight padded quickly to the elders' den. 
She stuck her head through the entrance. The scent of the Sisters bathed her muzzle and she blinked, 


adjusting to the darkness. “Snow? Are you awake?" 

The white she-cat lifted her head and blinked sleepily in the shadows. “What's happened?” 

“You have to leave tonight,” Squirrelflight told her. 

Tempest jerked her head up. “Right now?” Alarm glittered in the tabby’s bright gaze. 

“As soon as Bramblestar gets back,” Squirrelflight told her. “He wants you to leave tonight. He’s 
following with the rest of the patrol. They'll be here soon.” 

Hawk scrambled to her paws. “Is Sunrise well enough to travel?" 

“I hope so. I'm going to see Leafpool now," Squirrelflight blinked at her. **She'll know what to 
do." She ducked out of the elders' den, sensing Bumblestripe's gaze as she crossed the clearing. She 
ignored it and nosed her way through the brambles that draped the entrance to the medicine den. 

Leafpool was sitting beside Sunrise's nest, her face hidden in shadow. She pricked her ears as 
Squirrelflight slid inside. “Was the Gathering okay?" 

Sunrise shifted in her nest. “Did ShadowClan make trouble?" Anxiety glittered in her gaze. 

Squirrelflight crossed the den. “ShadowClan wants to declare war against the Sisters. Leafstar 
and Bramblestar convinced them to hold off until we hear from StarClan." She gazed evenly at 
Sunrise. “But Bramblestar says you have to leave here tonight." 

Leafpool’s pelt prickled. “Tonight?” She glanced anxiously at Sunrise's wound. Squirrelflight 
guessed what she was thinking. The gash had closed, but a mistimed jump or a fall could reopen it. 
And the infection had sapped the she-cat's strength. 

“Гуе warned Snow.” As Squirrelflight spoke, the white she-cat pushed her way into the den, 
Tempest and Hawk at her heels. They crowded inside, appearing bigger than ever in the tight hollow. 

Snow blinked at Leafpool. *Is she well enough to travel?" 

Leafpool shifted her paws. "She'll have to be. If ShadowClan is talking war, it’s too dangerous 
for you to stay." 

“War?” Hawk asked, her eyes wide. “You didn't mention that before. Do you really think the other 
cats would attack because you've helped us?" 

“You attacked their warriors," Leafpool replied evenly. “They would see it as defending their 
own." 

“But we were only defending our own," Tempest meowed. 

Leafpool's ear twitched irritably. “We could argue about who was in the right all day. What 
matters is that you must leave if we want to avoid violence." She caught Squirrelflight's eye 
nervously. 

Does she think I'm going to argue? Squirrelflight felt uneasy about sending Sunrise home while 
she was still weak, but she realized Alderheart had been right, and Leafpool clearly felt the same way 
—Af ShadowClan, WindClan, and RiverClan were ready to start a war with the Sisters, they wouldn't 
be safe here, and their presence would put ThunderClan in danger. 

Leafpool flicked her tail. “ГІІ make up a bundle of herbs for you to take.” She padded toward the 
cleft in the rock at the back of the den where the herbs were stored. “I hope you can find more when 
you get home." She crouched and began tugging leaves from the shadowy crack. *Use marigold, and 
goldenrod if you can find it. That wound will need to be kept clean until it's fully healed." 

Snow dipped her head. “We are grateful for your care, Leafpool. Sunrise would have died 
without you." 

“Alderheart and Jayfeather would have taken care of her if I hadn't," Leafpool meowed briskly as 
she pulled out a wad of thyme. 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws. Would they have? Jayfeather and Alderheart had helped treat 


Sunrise’s wound, but she'd felt their unease at having a cat some of the Clan considered an enemy in 
their medicine den. She suspected they’d be relieved when the Sisters left. 

Sunrise shifted in her nest, her face taut with pain. 

Hawk stiffened. “Are you sure she can travel?” 

Leafpool wrapped the herbs in a leaf and carried them to Sunrise’s nest. She opened the bundle 
and, with her pad, dabbed at a patch of poppy seeds pooled between the leaves. “Swallow these.” 
She lifted her paw to Sunrise's mouth, and the yellow she-cat ducked to lick them off. “They’ll help 
with the pain. There's more in the bundle for when you get home, but you'll have to find your own 
once they’re gone.” 

Tempest was frowning. “Do the Clans always turn a fight into a war?” 

Squirrelflight looked at her. “What do you mean?” 

“Sunrise was hurt in a border fight,” Tempest meowed. “Is that any reason to start a war?” 

“Tensions are running high at the moment,” Squirrelflight explained. “We changed borders 
recently, and 1t's not working out as well as we’d hoped. And the fight permanently damaged 
Strikestone’s hearing. I didn’t realize when we brought Sunrise back here that a Clan cat had been so 
badly hurt.” 

“Nor did we.” Tempest's gaze darkened. “We didn't mean to harm him.” 

Snow lifted her muzzle. “We were defending ourselves.” 

Leafpool rerolled the bundle. “What's done is done.” She pushed it toward Hawk. 

“They’re back.” Squirrelflight blinked anxiously toward the den entrance as paw steps sounded in 
the clearing. 

The brambles shivered and Bramblestar pushed his way in. “Are they ready?” He gazed darkly at 
the Sisters. 

Snow nodded. 

“T ve given them herbs to take with them,” Leafpool told him. 

Bramblestar narrowed his eyes. “Our herbs?" 

Leafpool met his gaze. “Ill pick fresh herbs to replace them.” 

Bramblestar flicked his tail toward the entrance. “It’s time they were going.” He nodded toward 
Snow. “Try not to be seen. And stay away from ShadowClan's borders. I don't want them picking up 
your scent.” 

"I'm going to escort them," Squirrelflight told him. “I can make sure they stay away from Clan 
borders.” 

Bramblestar looked at her suspiciously. “I’m sure they can manage by themselves." 

"They'll manage better with a guide.” Squirrelflight returned his gaze evenly. She wanted to check 
on Moonlight. Was the Sisters’ leader close to kitting? “ShadowClan mustn’t know they’ve passed 
through our territory.” 

Bramblestar frowned. “If you must go, I’m sending Bumblestripe with you." 

“Let him sleep," Squirrelflight mewed quickly. “It’s late.” She tipped her head to one side. “Or 
don't you trust me to do this alone?" 

Bramblestar stared back at her, then shook out his pelt. *Go with them if you must," he growled. 
He nodded quickly to the Sisters and nosed his way out of the den. 

“He doesn't sound pleased with the idea," Snow observed. 

"These days, he's not pleased with anything I do." Squirrelflight watched the brambles swish 
back into place, her heart heavy. 

"There's no time to worry about that now." Leafpool helped Sunrise to her paws. As the wounded 


cat climbed unsteadily out of her nest, Hawk and Tempest hurried to support her. They pressed against 
her on either side, guiding her to the entrance. Snow picked up the bundle of herbs and followed them 
out. 

Leafpool watched them go. “Don’t travel too fast,” she warned Squirrelflight. “Sunrise is very 
weak.” 

“ГИ make sure she gets home safely,” Squirrelflight promised. 

Outside, Bramblestar hung back in the shadow of the Highledge, his eyes glittering in the 
moonlight. Thornclaw and Hollytuft watched from the fresh-kill pile as the Sisters moved slowly past 
them. 

Larksong padded to the edge of the clearing and dipped his head to Tempest. His black pelt was 
no more than a shadow in the darkness. “Take care," he mewed. 

“PI look after them.” Squirrelflight told him. 

Larksong looked surprised. “Are you going with them?" 

Squirrelflight lifted her chin. “I brought them here. P11 see them home.” 

Sparkpelt padded to her mate's side, her gaze shimmering with worry as she blinked at her 
mother. “Will you be okay?" 

“PII be among friends," Squirrelflight reassured her. 

A low growl rumbled in Thornclaw's throat. Squirrelflight ignored it and followed Tempest and 
Hawk as they steered Sunrise through the thorn tunnel. 

In the forest, Snow fell in quietly beside Squirrelflight. She held the bundle of herbs between her 
jaws, staying close as Squirrelflight led the Sisters toward the abandoned Twolegplace. 

The journey was slow, and they stopped from time to time to let Sunrise rest. The wounded cat 
made no fuss, but Squirrelflight could see from the bright pain in her eyes that she was struggling. An 
owl hooted in the trees, staying with them as they made their way through the forest, as though curious 
about their presence. Foxes screeched in the distance, and everywhere Squirrelflight could hear the 
rustle of prey in the undergrowth. 

At the edge of Clan territory, Squirrelflight relaxed a little. From here, she wouldn't have to keep 
glancing over her shoulder for prying Clan eyes. She halted as Tempest and Hawk helped Sunrise 
across the border; then she let Snow take the lead. The white cat knew this territory better than she 
did. Tiredness was beginning to tug at her bones, and she was relieved when at last she recognized 
the trail that led into the Sisters’ secluded valley. 

She opened her mouth and, through the dank night air, tasted the scent of their camp. Moonlight. 
She smelled the she-cat's scent, feeling at home at once. Pricking her ears, she listened for movement. 
This late into the night, the Sisters must be sleeping. 

At the fern entrance, Tempest lifted her muzzle and yowled. Instantly, dens rustled and paw steps 
pattered over grass. 

“Snow? Is that you?" Moonlight's call sounded from the camp. 

Squirrelflight fought the urge to race ahead, letting Tempest and Hawk ease Sunrise through the 
ferns before she followed them into the camp. 

“You're home." Moonlight stood outside her den, her eyes shining. “Sparrow brought your 
message." Her gaze flitted toward Sunrise. “It looks like Squirrelflight's medicine cat managed to 
help." 

Flurry hurried to her mother’s side. “Hawk!” She rubbed her cheek against her mother's. “I’m 
glad you’re back.” 

Sparrow wove around them, purring. “You were gone for ages. Moonlight was about to send a 


search party.” 

Squirrelflight was relieved that the gray she-cat hadn't. What would Bramblestar have said if 
even more Sisters had turned up on their land? 

Sunrise sank down into the grass with a weary groan. 

"Are you still sick?" Furze darted toward her. 

“Г т recovering,” Sunrise told her. “Slowly.” 

Snow dropped the herb bundle beside Sunrise. “Squirrelflight’s campmates gave us these herbs to 
treat her." 

Moonlight hurried across the clearing and stopped beside Snow. Squirrelflight eyed her swollen 
belly. *I'm glad you're safe." Her gaze flashed toward Squirrelflight, surprise lighting her face as 
though she'd only just realized Squirrelflight was with the returning patrol. *I must thank you for 
taking care of my campmates.” 

Squirrelflight’s pelt prickled uneasily. What would Moonlight say when she heard that 
ThunderClan had considered turning Sunrise away, even if it meant she died? “It was risky," she 
mumbled. She needed to explain. “Sunrise was injured in a fight with ShadowClan. Sheltering her 
was dangerous." 

Moonlight dipped her head. “I’m sorry my campmates put your Clan in such a difficult position. 
Has it caused you trouble?" 

“Not really." Squirrelflight told her. “ShadowClan doesn't know we helped her. But they are 
ready to declare war on you because of the fight with their patrol. One of their warriors lost his ear, 
and his hearing." 

Moonlight tipped her head to one side. “Do they know we'll be moving on once my kits have been 
born?" 

“Yes,” Squirrelflight met her gaze apologetically. “But Tigerstar doesn't want to wait that long, 
and RiverClan and WindClan are willing to fight with him." 

Moonlight blinked at her. “And your Clan?" 

“Bramblestar is stalling them. He says we must have the permission of StarClan." 

"They're your ancestors, yes?" 

Squirrelflight nodded. 

"And they live up there?" Moonlight looked into the sky. Pale blue was showing on the horizon, 
but the stars were still glittering in blackness overhead. “It seems a long way to travel. Perhaps that's 
why some choose to stay here." 

Squirrelflight frowned. “What do you mean?" 

Snow pricked her ears. “Don't you see them?" 

“See who?" Squirrelflight shifted uneasily. The Sisters were staring at her as though she'd grown 
rabbit ears. 

“The dead," Moonlight told her. 

Cold wormed beneath Squirrelflight's pelt. “Only medicine cats share with StarClan." 

Moonlight looked puzzled. “Don't the rest of you see them?" 

Squirrelflight hesitated, remembering suddenly the great battle against the Dark Forest. “Once, 
many moons ago, our ancestors fought beside us." Her belly tightened. *But those days are over. 
Since then, the warriors of StarClan only show themselves to our medicine cats." 

Moonlight met her gaze. “Perhaps it is simpler that way. The dead are all around us. They seem 
younger and sleeker than they did in life, as though death brings them peace." 

“Do you speak to them?" A memory stirred at the edges of Squirrelflight's thoughts. 


“Sometimes,” Moonlight told her. 

Tree! Squirrelflight caught hold of the memory. The loner that SkyClan had taken in was able to 
see the dead. He’d brought dead warriors from the shadows to speak with their living Clanmates. “Of 
course! Your son Tree sees the dead too!” 

“Cats born of the Sisters have this skill." Moonlight gazed at her. “It keeps us connected to our 
ancestors.” 

“We all see the dead,” Furze told her. “Sometimes they talk to us; sometimes they don't. 
Sometimes I'm not sure they even see me." 

“I often see the same cat,” Tempest told her. “If she wants to, she speaks to me; if not, she ignores 
me." 

Squirrelflight wondered if the Sisters’ dead had the same powers of prophecy as StarClan. “Do 
they ever tell you what will happen in the future?" 

Tempest narrowed her eyes. “How would they know?" 

“Our dead move among us,” Moonlight explained. “They have no power to see what we cannot." 

Squirrelflight glanced at the sky, frustration pricking in her paws. What use were the dead if they 
couldn't help the living? Dawn was creeping closer. She needed to get home. “Tell your dead friends 
to watch out for the Clans," she warned Moonlight. “Bramblestar has stopped ShadowClan for now, 
but once Tigerstar gets an idea, it’s hard for him to let go.” 

Moonlight swished her tail. “We are bigger and stronger than Clan cats.” 

Squirrelflight gazed at her solemnly. “Maybe, but you're heavily outnumbered. Even rats are 
dangerous when they come in swarms." 

Tempest and Furze exchanged nervous looks. Hawk shifted closer to her kits. 

Moonlight held Squirrelflight's gaze. “You may be right,” she conceded. “But we won't be here 
for long. Try to persuade the Clans to wait. We mean no harm to them, but my kits must be born here." 

Squirrelflight dipped her head. *I will do what I can." Even as she promised, doubt gnawed at her 
belly. Maybe once, with Bramblestar on her side, she could have persuaded the Clans to keep their 
claws sheathed, for a while at least. But their experience with Darktail had made the Clans more 
wary. His Kin had posed as a harmless group of rogues, too— but then they'd infiltrated ShadowClan 
and eventually taken it over. Before he was done, they'd taken RiverClan's land as well, and horribly 
mistreated the cats in their care. Many cats died in the battle to defeat him, and ShadowClan was 
nearly destroyed. All the Clans had become more hostile to outsiders and less open to reason as a 
result. She knew the Sisters were no threat, but she wasn't sure that she could convince the Clans to 
leave them in peace. 





CHAPTER 12 


Se 


“Stay with me.” Squirrelflight nudged Ivypool with her nose, waiting while Twigbranch and Finleap 
checked the clearing. She wanted to give the two young warriors a chance to guide the hunt. 

In the days since the Sisters had left the camp, she”d volunteered for every patrol. She wanted to 
keep busy. She was leading a hunting patrol now. They hadn’t had much luck so far, finding prey 
scarce around the beech grove, but as they headed closer to the edge of the forest, prey-scents were 
becoming thicker. Ivypool paused beside her and watched Twigbranch and Finleap sniff their way 
through the ferns that pooled in a patch of sunlight. 

Twigbranch lifted her head and called over the browning fronds. “There are squirrel scents here, 
but they’re stale.” She looked into the canopy. “Prey must be busy today building nests for leaf-bare.” 

Ivypool padded forward, pushing between the ferns. “They have to come out to find fresh 
bedding, just like we do.” 

Twigbranch shrugged. “If they do, they're not looking for it here.” 

Squirrelflight nodded toward the edge of the forest, where bright sunshine lit the trunks. “We 
could check the land beyond the stream.” 

“The moorland?" Ivypool looked unconvinced. 

Finleap pricked his ears hopefully. “Moorland prey might be less shy.” As he swished through the 
ferns, heading for the light, Twigbranch hurried after him. 

“T don’t see the point of hunting on the moorland.” Ivypool fell in beside Squirrelflight as they 
followed the younger cats. “We’ll be giving it back soon.” 

“Only if SkyClan agrees to move,” Squirrelflight told her. “And even then, we have to wait for the 
Sisters to leave their camp.” 

“Not 1f Tigerstar goes ahead with his plan to chase them off,” Ivypool reminded her. 

Squirrelflight’s belly tightened. “He promised to wait for word from StarClan.” Bramblestar 
hadn’t sent Jayfeather and Alderheart to consult with StarClan yet, and she guessed he was delaying 
on purpose. He didn’t want any news that would encourage Tigerstar to start a war with the Sisters. 
Besides, Bramblestar already knew what StarClan thought. Clouds from the mountains will make it 
difficult to tell friend from enemy. But if the Clans stay united, the way forward will be clear. She 
wasn't surprised he hadn’t shared the message with the other Clans. It could too easily be interpreted 
as an order to move against the Sisters. 

Had the other Clans sent medicine cats to the Moonpool? Would StarClan give them the same 
message? Squirrelflight couldn't help but consider what that might mean: What if StarClan does want 
us to attack the Sisters? But how could that be? Squirrelflight knew many of the cats in StarClan; 
they were her own kin and Clanmates, good cats at heart. Why would they want the Clans to attack 
these harmless cats? For now, she decided, she was choosing to believe that wasn't what StarClan 
meant. 

Judging from the silence from beyond ThunderClan's borders, Squirrelflight guessed that no 
message had been shared. But waiting was making her nervous. How long would Bramblestar resist 
the call to war against the Sisters 1f StarClan sent word to the other Clans? 

She was heartened that he hadn’t done more than send the Sisters back to their camp. He clearly 
wasn't prepared to push them farther away. Not yet, at least. Squirrelflight fluffed out her fur. He’d 


behaved with similar restraint in their relationship. Bramblestar kept his distance, eating and hunting 
with others, only speaking to her about Clan business, but he hadn’t asked her to leave his den. They 
both slept there each night, in separate nests, sharing the silence. 

Watching Sparkpelt's belly swell and her pelt grow glossier had sharpened Squirrelflight's grief 
at not having her own kits. The hope that she might have another litter with Bramblestar seemed to 
grow more remote with each passing day. 

Sunlight bathed her face, jerking her from her gloomy thoughts. She and Ivypool had reached the 
edge of the forest. Twigbranch and Finleap were already crossing the stream. 

Ivypool opened her mouth to let air bathe her tongue. The silver tabby's eyes brightened. “I smell 
rabbit." She hurried after Twigbranch and Finleap. 

Squirrelflight followed, jumping from stone to stone across the stream and landing lightly on the 
far bank. WindClan scents rolled from the high moor as a warm wind ruffled her pelt. Ahead, Finleap 
dropped into a hunting crouch. Twigbranch and Ivypool froze. Heart quickening, Squirrelflight 
followed her Clanmates’ gaze. Brown fur flashed between the heather bushes. The rabbit! 

She held her breath as Finleap's stumpy tail swished eagerly over the earth. The heather quivered. 
Finleap shot forward. As he plunged through the bushes, Twigbranch and Ivypool dived after him. 
Squirrelflight darted through a gap 1n the heather. Branches scraped her pelt. Bushes crowded on 
either side, blocking her view, but she could hear paws thrumming and smell the rabbit's acrid fear- 
scent. Zigzagging between the stems, she tracked the patrol, breathing fast as she glimpsed Ivypool's 
silver tail-tip flashing. She chased after it, excitement sparking through her pelt. 

A moment later, she slammed into Ivypool's hindquarters. The silver tabby had stopped without 
warning. Surprised, Squirrelflight fought to keep her balance as she stumbled to a halt. “What's 
wrong?" 

Ivypool was staring through the heather, her pelt bristling. “Look.” 

Twigbranch and Finleap were backing toward her. Her pelt bristled with alarm as she smelled 
WindClan scent. Breezepelt. The black warrior was advancing on the ThunderClan patrol. His eyes 
were narrowed to hostile slits as he pushed through the heather. 

Squirrelflight straightened and met his gaze as Ivypool, Twigbranch, and Finleap pressed around 
her. “What are you doing here?" 

Breezepelt glared at her without answering. 

Doubt tugged at Squirrelflight's belly. This was still ThunderClan land, wasn't it? For a moment, 
Squirrelflight wondered if they'd crossed the border by accident. She glanced around, her view 
blocked by the heather, then pushed her way out and padded onto the grass. The line of gorse that 
marked the border was a tree-length away. They were still inside ThunderClan territory. 

Ivypool, Twigbranch, and Finleap followed her out, looking confused. 

Ivypool eyed Breezepelt angrily as he slid from the heather. “What in StarClan do you think 
you're doing?" she snarled at him. 

Finleap's hackles lifted. “You scared off our prey!” 

*Your prey?" Breezepelt growled scornfully. 

“Yes!” Finleap took a step closer to the WindClan warrior, unsheathing his claws. 

Squirrelflight glimpsed pelts moving through the stretch of heather. Hootwhisker, Nightcloud, and 
Sedgewhisker were heading toward them. “Wait, Finleap," she warned. 

Finleap lashed his tail. *But he scared off our prey." 

"[ don't want to start a fight." Squirrelflight shifted her paws uneasily as the other WindClan 
warriors neared. *I want to know what WindClan's warriors are doing here." As Finleap backed 


toward her, she caught Breezepelt’s eye. “This isn’t your territory,” she told the black tom. “Why have 
you disturbed our hunt?” 

Breezepelt met her gaze, his eyes flashing dangerously. “This land is wasted on ThunderClan,” he 
growled. “You said so yourself at the Gathering.” 

Squirrelflight bristled. “That was an informal gathering between leaders and deputies. We never 
formally agreed to change the borders.” 

“And yet you said 1t," Breezepelt pressed. 

“Harestar said the land was wasted on ThunderClan,” she corrected him. 

“But you agreed." Breezepelt stood motionless as his Clanmates reached him and fanned out on 
either side, their hostile gazes fixed on the ThunderClan warriors. 

Squirrelflight's ears twitched nervously. He was using her words against her. Harestar must have 
put him up to it. The black warrior hadn't been at that gathering. None of the warriors had. Only 
leaders and deputies. “I said we hadn't been using the moorland as much as we could," she growled. 
“But we're using it now." 

Hootwhisker nodded toward the forest. “Why not hunt in the woods? It's what you're used to, and 
there's enough prey for you there." 

Nightcloud's gaze flicked over the ThunderClan patrol. “You certainly don't look hungry." 

“Hunger has nothing to do with it!” Finleap flattened his ears. “This is our territory, and we can 
hunt here whenever we want." 

"You're trespassing,” Ivypool snarled. 

Squirrelflight kept her gaze on Breezepelt. “The leaders have agreed that the new borders will 
remain until SkyClan has made a decision. So I suggest you leave our land until our leaders agree to 
restore the old borders." Her pelt pricked nervously. Were the WindClan warriors looking for a fight? 

Breezepelt's tail twitched. He leaned toward Nightcloud and whispered in her ear. The black she- 
cat looked at him, then jerked her muzzle toward Squirrelflight. *I suggest you discuss this with 
Bramblestar. He may have a clearer view on what 1s best for the Clans." 

The insult jabbed Squirrelflight's belly like claws. “I will discuss this with Bramblestar,” she 
growled. “But he won't allow borders to be ignored any more than I will. Without borders, there can 
be no unity among the Clans." She stared deep into Breezepelt's gaze, hoping he understood the 
implication. In crossing the ThunderClan border so blatantly, WindClan was disregarding StarClan's 
command for peace. 

Breezepelt held her gaze for a moment, then looked away. He signaled to his patrol with a flick of 
his tail. *Let's head back to the high moor." 

Without a word, his Clanmates turned and headed into the heather, climbing the slope toward the 
border. A low growl rumbled in Ivypool's throat. Twigbranch flexed her claws angrily. As the 
WindClan patrol crossed the line of gorse, Squirrelflight turned back toward camp. “We should go 
tell Bramblestar." 


Squirrelflight made the journey back in silence, unease rippling through her pelt. Behind her, 
Ivypool, Finleap, and Twigbranch muttered angrily to one another. As they reached camp, 
Squirrelflight ducked first through the thorn tunnel. Bramblestar was sitting on the Highledge. She 
beckoned him with a flick of her tail. 

His eyes widened and he leaped down the rock tumble and stopped as Ivypool, Finleap, and 
Twigbranch gathered around her. He searched Squirrelflight’s gaze, his ears pricking anxiously. 
“What's happened?" 


“WindClan,” Finleap answered first, his tail flicking angrily behind him. “They say our moorland 
belongs to them.” 

Twigbranch growled. 

Squirrelflight watched Bramblestar, looking for outrage to flare in his amber eyes. But he only 
blinked. “I will speak with Harestar. Today.” He nodded to Squirrelflight. “Will you come with me?" 

Squirrelflight's eyes widened as surprise sparked inside her. Was this how he was going to 
defend the borders he’d agreed to? “What are you going to say to him?” 

Bramblestar lifted his chin. “Pm going to try to come to an agreement. If Harestar believes land is 
being wasted strongly enough to fight for 1t, then we need to listen to him.” 

Ivypool bristled. “Are you thinking about giving the moorland back?” She sounded shocked. “If 
we give land to WindClan and SkyClan, we won't have enough prey to make it through leaf-bare." 

Bramblestar looked at her. “I won't let my Clan go hungry," he promised. “Trust me." 

Ivypool held his gaze for a moment, then looked away. Flicking her tail, she beckoned Finleap and 
Twigbranch away. “I don't know what ThunderClan's coming to," she muttered as she led them 
around the clearing. “Protecting rogues and giving land away to any Clan that wants it.” 

“Thornclaw won't be happy, either, 1f you let WindClan take our land." Squirrelflight blinked at 
Bramblestar. The ThunderClan warrior had been sullen ever since Bramblestar had agreed to let 
Leafpool treat Sunrise. 

“Thornclaw is just one warrior," Bramblestar grunted. 

“But he speaks for others. Birchfall, Blossomfall—" 

Bramblestar cut her off. “Pm only going to speak with Harestar. There must be a way to divide 
Clan land so that none is wasted." 

“Not 1f we have to make space for SkyClan," Squirrelflight pointed out. 

“Then it might be time to find a new space for SkyClan.” Bramblestar shook his head. “Pm sorry, 
Squirrelflight, I know I've fought you on this. But perhaps you're right. There's no other way to solve 
the dispute fairly." 

Squirrelflight stared at her mate, surprised. Relief washed over her like a warm breeze in 
newleaf. *I... Thank you." 

Bramblestar nodded, his expression softening, and headed toward the entrance. “Let's speak to 
Harestar now. Waiting will only make tempers worse." 

Squirrelflight followed him, pricking her ears. The warmth she'd felt at Bramblestar's admission 
suddenly faded as a new concern occurred to her. Was Bramblestar really ready to admit that her plan 
to wait for the Sisters to move on could solve the border conflict? Or was he coming around to 
Tigerstar's plan to drive the Sisters off their land? “So you think SkyClan should move to the 
mountain territory?" She ducked through the thorn tunnel after him. 

“Yes.” He padded into the forest, taking the trail that led toward the moor. 

Anxiety tightened Squirrelflight’s belly. “When?” 

Bramblestar glanced at her as she fell in beside him. *As soon as Leafstar is ready to make the 
decision to go.” He turned his gaze ahead. “Not before. It must be SkyClan's decision. No Clan must 
pressure them into moving." 

Squirrelflight's ears twitched. What if Leafstar made the decision tomorrow, or in a quarter moon, 
before Moonlight's kits were born? She tried to push the thought away. Surely Leafstar wouldn't 
knowingly endanger Moonlight or her kits. But what if she did? She glanced at Bramblestar. *Would 
you drive the Sisters away before they're ready to leave?" 

“ГИ try to keep the peace as long as I can, but the Clans’ interests must come first.” 


Squirrelflight’s pelt sparked with anger. Did Bramblestar really believe that the impatience of 
warriors was more important than the Sisters’ needs? “Why?” 

“Do you think we should put the comfort of rogues before ourselves?” 

Squirrelflight bristled. “The Sisters aren't rogues!” 

He looked at her, puzzled. “How are they different?” He didn’t wait for an answer. “I can't let my 
Clan go hungry so that the Sisters can eat.” 

“No cat is going without food!” Squirrelflight stared at him. Bramblestar was twisting the 
argument. “We don't have the right to take land just because we want 1t.” 

“We need it,” Bramblestar insisted. “And the Sisters have proved that they pose a threat to the 
Clans.” 

“What threat?” Squirrelflight’s hackles lifted. 

“They’re willing to attack Clan cats and hold them hostage. I call that a threat.” 

“They were just defending themselves,” Squirrelflight argued. 

“And we”re just defending ourselves.” 

“So why are you holding Tigerstar back?” Squirrelflight's paws pricked with frustration. “Why 
not just let him start his war against the Sisters now?" She didn't want an answer. “You told him that 
we had to wait for word from StarClan. But we've had word from StarClan. Tigerstar could easily 
twist what Hollyleaf told Jayfeather into an excuse for war. Why not tell him what StarClan said and 
let him attack the Sisters?" She fixed his gaze, her heart aching. She wanted him to say that it was 
because he knew it was wrong to steal land, that he had pity for Moonlight and her unborn kits. 

Bramblestar looked at her coldly. “There’s no need for war with the Sisters until we know for 
sure that SkyClan wants their land." 

Squirrelflight's heart sank. She knew that Bramblestar was being honorable in his own way. He 
was putting the needs of the Clans first, as a leader should. And if he hadn't cared about the Sisters at 
all, he would have already shared StarClan's message and let ShadowClan start the war. Still, the 
coldness of his reasoning irked her. Couldn't he see that the Sisters deserved respect too? A 
warrior's way of life wasn't the only way to live. 

Her tail drooped as she matched Bramblestar's paw steps. Around them, birds chattered and 
sunshine dappled the forest floor. There was no point in wishing Bramblestar were different. She was 
ThunderClan's deputy. She needed to focus her thoughts on what was best for her Clan. The 
confrontation with Breezepelt had been close to an open declaration of war. She must support 
Bramblestar now. If he could come to a compromise with Harestar at this meeting, they could 
maintain the uneasy peace among the Clans while still delaying the invasion of the Sisters’ territory. 
Whatever was decided in the WindClan camp this afternoon might give Moonlight the chance to have 
her kits in the birthing den the Sisters had built for her. 

At the WindClan border, they waited for a patrol. The wind in the heather covered the silence 
between them. Squirrelflight stared across the moor, relieved when she saw Larkwing, Slightfoot, and 
Oatclaw on the hillside. 

“Slightfoot!” Bramblestar whisked his tail. 

Slightfoot's pelt bristled. Larkwing narrowed her eyes. The patrol headed toward them, eyeing 
them warily. 

“I want to talk to Harestar," Bramblestar told them as they neared. 

Slightfoot looked unsurprised. WindClan must have heard about the encounter between Breezepelt 
and Squirrelflight by now. His stony gaze flitted over Bramblestar and Squirrelflight. “We’ll take you 
to him." 


He stepped asıde, inviting them over the border with a nod of his head. Squirrelflight followed 
Bramblestar nervously between the gorse bushes. She’d known these WindClan warriors their whole 
lives, remembered their first Gathering as apprentices, and yet the hostility in their eyes made her 
keenly aware that she was treading on enemy territory. StarClan might demand that the Clans unite, 
but could the wishes of StarClan really undo countless moons ofrivalry and suspicion? 

Bramblestar stayed close to her as they followed Larkwing along the hillside, cutting through 
swaths of heather and winding between stiff bracken stems. She felt comforted by the brush of his fur 
against hers as Slightfoot and Oatclaw padded close at their tails. 

At last they reached the tall gorse wall of the WindClan camp. Larkwing led them around it, then 
ducked through a tunnel hardly visible among the prickly branches. Bramblestar followed, and 
Squirrelflight hurried after, her pelt prickling anxiously as they emerged onto a wide stretch of uneven 
grass. Hummocks poked up here and there, and, around the clearing, gorse dens had been woven into 
the camp walls. Featherpelt, her sides heavily rounded, and Gorsetail were sharing a piece of prey 
near the edge of camp. The she-cats lifted their gaze as Squirrelflight and Bramblestar entered and 
stared at the ThunderClan cats through narrowed eyes. Kestrelflight padded from his den. He caught 
Bramblestar's eye and greeted him with a respectful nod. Nightcloud got to her paws at the edge of 
the clearing as Slightfoot turned to Bramblestar. 

“Wait here,” he meowed. The WindClan warrior hurried toward a tightly woven den at the end of 
the clearing. Harestar was already sliding out, his nose twitching as the wind lifted his fur. He saw 
Bramblestar and Squirrelflight at once. 

“Bring them here,” he called. 

As Slightfoot hurried to Harestar's side, Oatclaw nudged Squirrelflight forward. 

She shrugged him away. “I can find my own way across a clearing,” she snapped. 

Bramblestar gave her a warning look. “This is WindClan’s camp,” he told her. “We follow their 
orders.” 

She shook out her pelt and fell in beside him as he crossed the clearing, ignoring Larkwing and 
Oatclaw padding on either side. 

As they reached the WindClan leader, Crowfeather nosed his way from the leader’s den, his eyes 
glittering with interest. 

Harestar met Bramblestar’s gaze. “You wished to speak with me?" 

“Breezepelt brought a patrol onto our territory today,” Bramblestar meowed evenly. 

Squirrelflight glared at the WindClan leader. “You sent him, didn't you?” 

Harestar didn’t answer. 

Bramblestar narrowed his eyes. “Are you trying to reclaim our stretch of moorland?” 

“ThunderClan has no use for it,” Harestar answered. “Your scent floods the hillside like dog 
stench without the forest to disguise it. On open moor, prey can smell you coming. It flees to our side 
of the border and becomes our prey anyway. Why waste your time? Return our land to us." 

“It's our land. We all agreed to the new borders." Bramblestar’s pelt ruffled along his spine. 
“Don’t forget we gave a lot of our territory to SkyClan." 

“You could have your SkyClan land back if you wanted." Harestar shifted his paws. “You're the 
one who's delaying their move. You can be the one to suffer the consequences." 

Squirrelflight glanced at Bramblestar. Was this demand for land WindClan's way of persuading 
ThunderClan to agree with ShadowClan's war on the Sisters? 

Bramblestar's tail swished ominously. *While greenleaf lasts, there are no consequences to 
suffer," he told Harestar. “There is enough prey in the forest to feed ThunderClan. The Sisters will be 


gone by the time leaf-bare comes, and we can rethink our borders then.” 

“If you have enough prey, why should WindClan wait to reclaim our territory?” Harestar's gaze 
didn’t waver. Crowfeather shifted closer to his leader, his hackles rising. 

Bramblestar gazed silently at the WindClan leader for a moment. Squirrelflight wondered what he 
was thinking. It would be hard to argue with Harestar’s logic. Bramblestar dipped his head. “Very 
well,” he growled. “You may hunt on our stretch of moorland until SkyClan makes a decision. Our 
border will remain where it is, and we will mark it regularly. But we will share the land for the next 
couple of moons.” 

Crowfeather frowned. “Why should we let ThunderClan mark a border on our land?” 

“It won't be for long.” Harestar’s mew was ominous. He met Crowfeather's gaze. The two cats 
seemed to exchange a single thought; then Harestar turned back to Bramblestar. “Very well.” 

Oatclaw’s tail quivered. “What will Tigerstar say?” 

Squirrelflight looked at the young warrior in surprise. “Who cares? This has nothing to do with 
Tigerstar.” 

Bramblestar’s gaze darkened. “Oatclaw has a point,” he murmured. “When RiverClan hears that 
we’ve given WindClan hunting rights on their old land, they might insist on the same for the land they 
gave to ShadowClan.” 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws nervously. She nudged Bramblestar aside, lowering her voice. “Tf 
RiverClan takes its land back from ShadowClan, it might start a Clan war.” 

He frowned. “But Tigerstar knows StarClan wants peace.” 

“Then he'll try to take the Sisters’ land and give it to SkyClan so he can have his old territory 
back.” Squirrelflight blinked at him. Bramblestar might not be ready to defend the Sisters, but she 
knew he was ready to defend SkyClan. “I thought you didn’t want Tigerstar telling SkyClan where 
they should live.” 

Bramblestar’s gaze clouded with thought. He turned back to Harestar. “We have to keep this 
agreement secret from the other Clans.” 

“Tf that’s what you wish.” Harestar dipped his head. 

Squirrelflight saw Crowfeather’s eyes narrow. She stiffened. Was the WindClan deputy planning 
to make trouble by spreading word of this agreement? 

Bramblestar must have been wondering the same. “Peace in the Clans depends on this remaining 
between us.” His gaze burned into Crowfeather. Squirrelflight felt a rush of hope. This agreement 
with WindClan might give the Sisters the time they needed, as long as Tigerstar didn’t find out. 





CHAPTER 13 


% 


Squirrelflight shivered as gray drizzle washed the clearing. It had been two days since she had 
visited the WindClan camp with Bramblestar. The weather had grown chilly, and she could taste leaf- 
fall in the air. Around her, the Clan had settled down to share a midday meal. Larksong was eating 
hungrily beside the fresh-kill pile. Bramblestar shared a squirrel with Birchfall and Hollytuft. 
Bristlepaw dragged a vole into the apprentices' den, where Thriftpaw and Flippaw were sheltering 
from the rain. 

Squirrelflight pushed the remains of the shrew she'd been sharing with Millie toward the deaf old 
she-cat. “You finish it,” she mewed loudly. 

"Are you sure?" Millie blinked at her. 

"Sure." 

Graystripe nosed his way out of the elders' den and glanced up at the overcast sky. He fluffed out 
his fur. “I’m hungry." He looked toward the fresh-kill pile, where a few mice lay in the mud, and 
wrinkled his muzzle. “I think ГЇЇ wait to see what this afternoon's patrol brings in.” 

Millie hooked the half-eaten shrew toward him. “Do you want this?" 

As Graystripe examined it, paw steps thrummed beyond the thorn tunnel. He lifted his muzzle and 
glanced toward the entrance. 

“Bramblestar!” Finleap charged, breathless, into camp. 

Squirrelflight's pelt bristled in alarm. The young tom looked scared. He stood panting in the 
clearing, rain dripping around his face. She hurried to meet him as Bramblestar scrambled to his 
paws. “What's happened?" she asked. 

“Tigerstar!” Finleap struggled to catch his breath. “He’s on the border with Scorchfur and 
Berryheart. Mistystar's with them—" 

Squirrelflight blinked at him. “Tigerstar and Mistystar?” Her belly tightened. Had they found out 
about the agreement with WindClan? 

Finleap went on. “Mistystar brought Owlnose and Havenpelt with her.” 

Bramblestar stopped beside her. Anxiety darkened his gaze. “Two warriors each. It must be 
serious," he growled. 

“Twigbranch and Thornclaw are escorting them here,” Finleap puffed. “Iran ahead to warn you." 

“Thanks, Finleap." Bramblestar waved him away with a nod of his muzzle and glanced around the 
camp. Bristlepaw blinked from the apprentices' den. Larksong left the mouse he'd been eating and 
padded closer, his hackles lifüng. Birchfall and Hollytuft narrowed their eyes as Bramblestar 
addressed the Clan. ‘“We’re about to have visitors," he told them. “Be polite, but be on guard.” 

As his Clanmates exchanged anxious glances. Bramblestar looked gravely at Squirrelflight. “I 
hope they haven't found out about the border." 

Squirrelflight wished she could reassure him, but she felt sure that their short moment of peace 
was at an end. “Why else would they come?" 

“They brought two warriors each," Bramblestar mused, hardly listening. “Enough for a show of 
strength." 

“Not enough to start trouble," Squirrelflight pointed out. 

Bramblestar looked at her. *Not yet." 


As he spoke, the thorn tunnel shivered, and Twigbranch and Thornclaw led Tigerstar, Mistystar, 
and their warriors into the camp. 

Squirrelflight hung back as Bramblestar met them in the middle of the clearing; then she padded to 
his side. Tigerstar fluffed his damp pelt out against the rain. Mistystar stood beside him, her gaze 
stony. 

“What brings you here?" Bramblestar asked evenly. 

Tigerstar twitched his tail. “You know what brings us here." Behind him, Scorchfur and 
Berryheart exchanged glances. Owlnose and Havenpelt moved closer to Mistystar. 

“Don’t pretend you can't guess,” the RiverClan leader growled. 

Tigerstar flexed his claws. “You’ve reestablished your old border with WindClan.” 

“The new border still remains," Bramblestar told him calmly. “We mark it every day.” 

“But you let WindClan hunt on your stretch of moorland," Tigerstar accused. 

Mistystar lifted her chin. “Which is the same as having no border at all." 

Squirrelflight moved closer to Bramblestar. “Our agreement with WindClan is ThunderClan 
business." 

"We've discussed this." Tigerstar glared at her. “It becomes my business when Mistystar demands 
that we return RiverClan's marshland." 

“We don't control what RiverClan does," Bramblestar replied stiffly. “WindClan and 
ThunderClan came to a peaceful agreement. There's no reason why you and RiverClan can't sort this 
out yourselves." 

“Is that all you have to say?" Tigerstar's ears twitched angrily. “ThunderClan cats usually can't 
stop themselves telling other Clans what to do." 

Bramblestar held his gaze. *Do you want me to tell RiverClan you won't give their land back?" 

“No!” Tigerstar lashed his tail. “ShadowClan can fight its own battles.” 

“Then why are you here, disturbing our peace?" Bramblestar's ears twitched. 

Squirrelflight looked at him. If he was going to refuse to get involved, she'd follow his lead. 
“What can we do?" 

“Defend your border with WindClan so we can defend ours." Tigerstar growled. “We need the 
marshland.” 

Mistystar snorted. “ShadowClan was never going to do more with that land than catch a few frogs 
and butterflies. We can fish there,” she snapped. “The borders are better this way.” 

“They might be better for you!” Tigerstar met her gaze, his hackles lifting. “RiverClan didn't give 
half its land to SkyClan.” 

“ThunderClan gave land to SkyClan too," she shot back. “They don't seem to mind." 

Tigerstar swung his muzzle toward Bramblestar. “ThunderClan enjoys stirring up trouble in other 
Clans. I’m asking you to put an end to it now." 

“The situation is difficult,” Bramblestar conceded. “But StarClan wants unity. Pm not going to 
fight over borders. Not with you, or with WindClan. They can keep the hunting rights to our stretch of 
moorland." 

Tigerstar narrowed his eyes. “Then perhaps we should take our land back from SkyClan." 

Squirrelflight's chest tightened. “You can't! They need territory, too." 

Tigerstar swished his tail slowly. *Or you could help us drive the Sisters off their land so that 
SkyClan can move and we'll all have enough land. ShadowClan has to eat.” 

Alarm sparked through Squirrelflight's pelt. She glanced helplessly at Bramblestar. He mustn't let 
Tigerstar push him into war against the Sisters. 


Bramblestar hesitated, his pelt ruffling along his spine. His gaze flitted from Tigerstar to 
Mistystar. “The border between RiverClan and ShadowClan has nothing to do with us. I suggest you 
settle your dispute yourselves.” His gaze fixed on Tigerstar. “Pd think twice about threatening 
SkyClan. Leafstar ıs still deciding whether she wants to move. Intimidation may make her dig her 
claws in. And ThunderClan will stand with her. SkyClan has been chased away too many times 
before. This time we won't sit by and watch. ShadowClan may find itself in a war it cannot win.” 

Tigerstar narrowed his eyes. “Is that a threat?” 

Mistystar peered curiously at Bramblestar. “Have you been making secret alliances with SkyClan 
as well as WindClan?” 

“ThunderClan hasn’t made alliances with any Clan,” Bramblestar growled. 

Tigerstar’s ears twitched. “And yet WindClan hunts on your land.” He nodded to Scorchfur and 
Berryheart. “Come on,” he told them. “We’re wasting our time here.” He turned away, flicking his tail 
across Mistystar’s muzzle. 

She ducked, snarling. “Let's go,” she told Owlnose and Havenpelt. “Bramblestar clearly doesn’t 
care about any cat’s borders except his own.” 

Squirrelflight stifled a shiver as the RiverClan cats barged past Tigerstar and marched out of 
camp. Growling, Tigerstar, Scorchfur, and Berryheart followed them. She turned to Bramblestar. “Do 
you think they'll fight?" 

Bramblestar stared after them darkly. “If they do, it's not our problem." 

“But we have to do something." 

“Like what?" 

Squirrelflight blinked at him nervously. “If they don't turn on each other, they might turn on 
SkyClan." 

“I know,” he answered bluntly. “But until Leafstar makes a decision, we can only tread carefully.” 

Squirrelflight's thoughts whirled. *What if there's a Clan war?" 

“I wish I had an answer for you." Bramblestar looked at her hopelessly, then turned away. He 
padded back to where he'd left his squirrel and settled heavily beside it. Bending his head, he began 
to chew on the bedraggled carcass as rain streamed from his whiskers. 

Squirrelflight's heart sank. Was there no solution that didn't involve war? 

“Squirrelflight.” Daisy called from the nursery entrance. 

She stiffened. Sparkpelt had moved to the nursery, sharing a nest there with Larksong until the kits 
were born. She hurried across the clearing. “Is Sparkpelt okay?" 

“Sparkpelt’s fine," Daisy mewed brightly. “She felt the kits move and she wanted to tell you." 

Squirrelflight purred, relieved to hear good news. 

“Tm going to get some food," Daisy told her, and headed toward the fresh-kill pile. Squirrelflight 
padded to the nursery and squeezed through the brambles into the warm den. She shook out her pelt 
before heading for Sparkpelt's nest. 

Sparkpelt lay among the ferns, her belly round with kits. She purred as she saw Squirrelflight. 
“Feel this." She glanced at her flank. 

Squirrelflight touched her nose to Sparkpelt's belly. Happiness flashed beneath her fur as she felt 
the kits stir beneath her daughter's pelt. But longing surged in her chest. She wanted to feel her own 
kits moving inside her. 

Sparkpelt blinked at her, alarm flashing in her eyes. “Is something wrong? You can feel them 
moving, can't you?" 

“Yes.” Squirrelflight reassured her quickly. Should she explain to Sparkpelt about her grief? 


“You’re going to be a wonderful mother,” she murmured. “I still remember how happy I was when 
you and Alderheart were born. I was so proud, even prouder of you than I was of my Clan. I miss 
feeling that way. I wish—" 

The entrance shivered as Larksong pushed his way into the nursery. He looked tired, his eyes dull, 
his fur slicked by the rain. He brightened as he saw Sparkpelt. *How are you?" He slid past 
Squirrelflight and pressed his nose to his mate's cheek. 

“I'm fine.” She purred happily and licked his ear. 

Larksong sat back on his haunches and burped. 

Sparkpelt’s whiskers twitched teasingly. “I hope you're not going to teach our kits those 
manners." 

“Sorry.” Larksong looked chastened. “I shouldn't have had that extra mouse. But nobody else 
seemed to want it, and the hunting patrol will bring fresh prey later." His mew was husky. Did he 
have a chill? He dipped his head to Squirrelflight, as though suddenly realizing she was there. “I 
promise I'll be the perfect father to your daughter's kits.” 

Squirrelflight purred. “I’m sure you will be." Sparkpelt was lucky to have such a good mate. “I 
think you're going to be very happy." Her heart ached with fondness, and she wondered how she had 
even considered telling Sparkpelt how much she wanted kits of her own. Let her enjoy this, she told 
herself. She doesn t have to deal with your problems. She Ill have enough to occupy her once the 
kits are born. 

Larksong shivered. “I was coming to lie down. I’ve been feeling tired all morning. I don't know 
why. l've only been on dawn patrol." He looked puzzled. *I don't seem to be able to catch my 
breath." 

“It's probably the wet weather," Squirrelflight suggested. She blinked at him playfully. “You’re 
going to have to get fit before the kits arrive. They'll keep you on your paws day and night." 

Larksong purred. “Don”t worry about that. I plan to make sure they have everything they need.” He 
got to his paws. “I can't wait to give them their first badger ride." Padding up and down the den, he 
glanced over his shoulder. “Can you imagine them up there on my back?" He stopped suddenly. 

Alarm sparked in Squirrelflight's fur as Larksong's gaze froze. Pain glittered in his eyes, as 
though he'd been swiped across the muzzle with powerful claws. 

Sparkpelt must have seen it too. *Larksong?" Fear edged her mew. 

Larksong's eyes grew suddenly dull. They rolled back as his paws buckled and he dropped to the 
ground. 

“Larksong!” Sparkpelt darted to his side, bristling with horror. Squirrelflight pressed beside her, 
terror hollowing her belly. Larksong wasn't moving. His flanks were still. Не 5 not breathing! 

“Stay with him,” she told Sparkpelt. “Pll fetch a medicine cat.” 

She pelted from the den, rain spraying her face as she raced for the medicine den and burst inside. 
“Help!” 

Alderheart looked up sharply from the herbs he was mixing. “What 1s 1t?" 

“Larksong! He’s collapsed in the nursery.” Squirrelflight fought back panic as Alderheart pelted 
past her, out of the den. She hurried after him. 

Bramblestar looked up from his squirrel. “What's happened?" 

“It's Larksong! He’s sick!” Squirrelflight pushed her way into the nursery after Alderheart. Fear- 
scent flooded the den. 

Alderheart pressed his ear to Larksong's chest, 

Sparkpelt stared at him, her pelt spiked. “Is he okay?” Her mew came as a sob. 


“His heart is beating.” Alderheart sat up. “But we have to get him started breathing again.” 

Sparkpelt seemed to freeze. “Will he die?” 

Squirrelflight slid in beside her. “Alderheart will do what he can.” 

“What's wrong with him?” Sparkpelt was trembling. 

Squirrelflight pressed against her. “Breathe,” she told Sparkpelt. “You don't want this to affect the 
kits.” 

Bramblestar had pushed his way into the den. He stared, his eyes wide. 

Alderheart glanced at him. “Fetch Leafpool. She’s in the elders” den with Millie. Tell her to come 
quickly. I need help. Now!” 

Bramblestar raced out as the dark ginger medicine cat pressed his paws onto Larksong's flank and 
began pumping his chest. 

Squirrelflight's paws seemed to freeze as she watched. 

Sparkpelt was stiff beside her, gulping juddering breaths as Alderheart worked on Larksong. 
“Don’t let him die," she sobbed. “Please don’t let him die.” 

Squirrelflight felt time slow as she watched Alderheart press harder and harder, pumping at 
Larksong's chest as though trying to shock him into life. He mustn't die now. He had to see his kits. 
He'd been so excited. They mustn't grow up without a father. Suddenly, Larksong gasped. A spasm 
seemed to grasp him and shake him into a long, trembling breath. Then he lay still. Squirrelflight 
heard blood roaring in her ears. “Is he alive?" 

Alderheart bent his head to Larksong's chest. 

Even before he sat up, Squirrelflight saw Larksong’s chest moving. “He's breathing,” she 
whispered. Relief swamped her. She looked at Sparkpelt. "He's alive!” 

Sparkpelt slumped against her. As Squirrelflight moved, her daughter slid to the ground, staring at 
Larksong with wide, desperate eyes. 





CHAPTER 14 


Se 


Squirrelflight glanced anxiously at Sparkpelt. Her daughter was calmer now that they’d moved 
Larksong to the medicine den, but her eyes were still shadowed with fear as she watched over her 
mate, who lay unconscious in one of the nests at the edge of the small hollow. 

Leafpool paced as Alderheart leaned over Larksong, wiping away the dark liquid pooling at the 
side of the warrior’s mouth. Jayfeather rummaged quickly through the herb store once more. 

“Should we give him more yarrow?” Alderheart asked the blind medicine cat. 

Jayfeather shook his head. “He”s too weak, and besides, we're not sure this is caused by 
something he ate.” 

Sparkpelt's pelt ruffled along her spine. “There must be something you can try.” 

Jayfeather tore open a bundle of chervil. “We could see if he can swallow a few of these leaves.” 

Leafpool stopped beside Squirrelflight. “Let's talk outside,” she murmured. 

Squirrelflight's belly tightened as Leafpool guided her toward the entrance. “Is Sparkpelt all 
right?" As concerned as she was about Larksong, she was more afraid for Sparkpelt's kits. 

"She's fine and so are the kits." Leafpool nosed her way through the brambles. 

“But she's so upset." Squirrelflight followed her through. The drizzle had eased, but raindrops 
still dripped from the canopy into the clearing. 

“I can feel the kits moving," Leafpool told her. “And Sparkpelt hasn't had any cramps. I’ve given 
her thyme to help with the shock. She's strong and sensible. She'll be okay." Her gaze darkened. “I 
just wish we knew what was wrong with Larksong. His breathing has steadied, but it's still shallow. 
And his heartbeat is weak." 

Squirrelflight fought back fear. “Have you seen anything like it before?" 

“No.” Leafpool gazed toward the trailing brambles. “Even Jayfeather is baffled. He says he's 
never smelled a sickness like this. And we've never seen a sickness that stopped a cat breathing so 
suddenly." 

“Could it be contagious?" Squirrelflight's heart lurched. Larksong had nuzzled Sparkpelt before 
he collapsed. 

“We don't know." Leafpool looked at her helplessly. *He's bringing up bile, which makes us think 
that the sickness is in his belly. But that's all we know." She looked toward the clearing. Bramblestar 
sat at the edge with Thornclaw and Finleap. Twigbranch and Birchfall stood nearby. Outside the 
elders’ den, Millie and Graystripe eyed the medicine den anxiously, while Hollytuft paced beside 
them. Leafpool called to Hollytuft. “You were on patrol with Larksong this morning. Did you see 
anything unusual while you were out?" Leafpool called. 

Hollytuft twitched her tail. “Nothing out of the ordinary. We caught a squirrel, but we put it on the 
fresh-kill pile when we got back." 

Leafpool glanced toward the pile. There was nothing left but the few bedraggled mice Graystripe 
had turned his nose up at earlier. “What did Larksong eat before he got sick?" 

Squirrelflight frowned. “He said he'd had two mice before he came to the nursery." 

Bramblestar got to his paws. “Check the prey," he told Hollytuft. “But be careful.” 

As Hollytuft hurried toward the fresh-kill pile, Twigbranch glanced at it nervously. *Do you think 
it was something he ate?" the young warrior asked. 


“The prey might have been rotten,” Finleap suggested. 

“But we only caught it this morning,” Thornclaw pointed out. “It was fresh.” 

“Perhaps he ate sick prey,” Twigbranch mewed. 

Squirrelflight narrowed her eyes. “Surely he would have smelled the sickness before he ate it?” 

Outside the elders’ den, Graystripe pricked his ears. “He might have been too hungry to notice.” 

Millie sniffed beside him. *No cat is too hungry to smell sickness in prey. Even a kit would know 
that kind of sourness." 

Bramblestar fluffed out his fur. “If it’s a new sickness, we wouldn't recognize it." 

Hollytuft sat back on her haunches beside the fresh-kill pile. “It all smells fresh and healthy to 
me," she told Bramblestar. 

“We should get rid of it anyway," Bramblestar answered. 

“PII see to it." Squirrelflight wanted something to keep her busy. She headed toward the pile. 

“Help her, Hollytuft." Bramblestar nodded toward the black she-cat, then glanced toward the 
apprentices’ den. Flippaw and Bristlepaw were watching anxiously from the entrance. “You two can 
help, too," he told them. 

They hurried out eagerly, as though relieved to be given something to do. 

Squirrelflight beckoned them with a flick of her tail and sniffed the mice. “Let's take them out of 
camp and bury them in the forest.” She caught Hollytuft’s eye. “We can dig a hole between the 
brambles at the top of the slope." 

Hollytuft nodded. “We’ll need to dig it deep to stop foxes finding them.” 

Flippaw blinked at her. “Why do we care if foxes get sick from this prey?" 

“Sickness harms everyone,” she told him. “Do you want a fox carcass rotting near the camp?" 

Bristlepaw looked warily at the prey. “What if we get sick from carrying it?” 

“We’ll carry it carefully." Squirrelflight rolled one of the mice closer with her paw. “Let me show 
you." She nodded to Hollytuft. “Take Flippaw and start digging," she ordered. “We’ll bring the prey.” 

As Hollytuft and Flippaw headed away, Squirrelflight touched the back of the mouse's neck with 
her paw. “This part is like a kit's scruff,” she told him. “The skin’s tougher here so its mother can 
carry it.” 

Bristlepaw blinked at her. “I never thought about prey having mothers." 

“Everything has a mother." She pressed her paw into the mouse's scruff. “You can pick it up using 
your teeth, but hold it gently. Because the skin is tougher here, it's less likely to bleed. Draw your lips 
back and keep your tongue out of the way. You don't want to swallow any fur or blood." 

Bristlepaw leaned down and took the mouse's neck gingerly between her jaws. She lifted it up, 
glancing uncertainly at Squirrelflight. 

“That's good,” she told her. “Now take it to Hollytuft. Be careful not to let it swing too much. The 
skin might tear." 

As Bristlepaw padded slowly away, Squirrelflight picked up another mouse and headed after her. 
It had been a while since she'd trained an apprentice, and she'd forgotten the satisfaction of teaching 
warrior skills to young cats. Was she being selfish in wanting kits of her own? Being part of a Clan 
was what made warriors strong, not only having kin. Perhaps it was enough to pass her skills to the 
next generation, no matter whose kit it was. She thought of the Sisters and how they raised their young 
together. The Clans weren't so different. Surely her Clanmates were enough like family for her not to 
need more kin of her own? 


Squirrelflight left Hollytuft and Flippaw scraping earth over the hole they'd buried the mice in 


and headed back toward camp. Her paws were muddy from digging and her muscles ached. 
Bristlepaw sat back on her haunches, looking pleased with her work. 

Hollytuft called after her. “Should Itake Flippaw and Bristlepaw hunting to find fresh prey?” 

Flippaw and Bristlepaw pricked their ears eagerly. 

“Good idea,” Squirrelflight called back. “But don’t hunt where you hunted earlier.” She’d need to 
find out where today's prey had been caught before she organized tomorrow's patrols. If it was prey 
that had made Larksong sick, ThunderClan would have to be careful about the fresh-kill they brought 
into the camp. 

She hurried through the thorn tunnel and crossed the clearing. Twigbranch and Finleap were 
laying rain-washed ferns over the bloody patch of earth where the fresh-kill pile had sat. Thornclaw 
and Birchfall murmured together, their muzzles close. Honeyfur, Berrynose, and Whitewing glanced 
anxiously at the medicine den. 

The brambles at the medicine den's entrance shivered, and Sparkpelt pushed her way out. Her 
eyes were clouded with tiredness, her pelt ruffled and unwashed. Leafpool followed her out and 
began to guide her toward the nursery. Squirrelflight hurried to meet them. “How”s Larksong?" she 
asked Sparkpelt, searching her daughter's gaze for a flash of hope. Sparkpelt looked back at her 
blankly. 

“Larksong’s still unconscious," Leafpool told her. “But he’s stable for now. I'm taking Sparkpelt 
back to the nursery to rest." 

“I want to stay with Larksong,” Sparkpelt whispered. 

“He’s in good paws,” Leafpool promised. “You need to rest. Away from all the fuss. You have to 
think about your kits." 

“I guess.” Sparkpelt's tail dragged as she padded toward the nursery. 

Leafpool lowered her voice. “I wish I could give her hope, but we still don't know what's wrong 
with Larksong." 

“Go back to the medicine den." Squirrelflight ignored the fear sparking in her chest. “Pll look 
after Sparkpelt." She hurried to follow her daughter into the nursery. 

Inside, Daisy blinked from the shadows. The pale queen’s eyes were round with worry. “Any 
news?" 

Sparkpelt shook her head and slumped into her nest. 

“Leafpool, Alderheart, and Jayfeather are doing everything they can," Squirrelflight told Daisy. 

“Do they know what caused it?” 

"They're not sure." 

As Squirrelflight spoke, Sparkpelt lifted her head sharply. Anger flashed in her eyes. “It was 
something he ate!" She heaved herself to her paws and glared at Squirrelflight. *He said he felt tired 
after eating so much; then he collapsed and stopped breathing. It has to be the food! We should be 
doing something about it!" 

Squirrelflight blinked at her. ““We’ve cleaned out the fresh-kill pile. We can't do more than that.” 

“This should have never happened!" Sparkpelt was bristling. 

“Of course not,” Squirrelflight agreed. 

“Т?П be okay,” Daisy soothed. 

“I don't know why nobody is saying what's obvious!” Sparkpelt’s whiskers trembled. 
“ShadowClan poisoned the fresh-kill pile! They were in the camp this morning, weren’t they?” 

“How could they have?” Squirrelflight stared at her in surprise. “We were watching them the 
whole time.” 


“SkyClan watched them too,” Sparkpelt shot back. “But they still managed to poison 
Sparrowpelt.” 

Squirrelflight remembered how Juniperclaw, ShadowClan”s former deputy, had nearly killed a 
SkyClan warrior by leaving prey laced with deathberries on SkyClan’s fresh-kill pile. The act had 
driven Leafstar to lead SkyClan away from the lake and had nearly destroyed the Clans. Surely they 
wouldn't do it again? 

She realized that Sparkpelt was still staring at her. “This isn’t deathberry poisoning. Leafpool 
would know if it were. Besides, when Juniperclaw poisoned Sparrowpelt, he acted alone,” she 
argued. “And he’s dead now. Tigerstar would never let such a thing happen again.” 

“Really?” Sparkpelt looked unconvinced. 

“Of course not.” Squirrelflight’s heart quickened. 

“Even when ThunderClan keeps bullying him?” Sparkpelt glared at her. “We won't let Tigerstar 
get even with the Sisters after they hurt one of his Clanmates. Why did you have to bring them here in 
the first place?” 

“T didn’t mean to,” Squirrelflight mewed defensively. “I was trying to help SkyClan.” 

Sparkpelt wasn't listening. “Now we've made a secret alliance with WindClan. For all we know, 
Tigerstar”s found out that we sheltered the Sisters too. That would be enough to make him want to hurt 
us. Bramblestar keeps making decisions that make life hard for ShadowClan. Is he trying to make 
Tigerstar angry?” 

“This isn't Bramblestar's fault.” Squirrelflight lifted her chin. “Your father 1s just doing what he 
thinks is right.” 

“And he doesn't care who gets hurt!” 

Daisy padded tentatively forward. “Bramblestar would never hurt any cat.” 

“He just wants peace,” Squirrelflight chimed. “That’s why he's trying to appease WindClan, and 
why he won't join a war against the Sisters.” 

Sparkpelt flattened her ears. “So it's okay 1f Larksong dies, as long as WindClan and the Sisters 
are happy!" 

“No!” Frustration scorched Squirrelflight's pelt. Sparkpelt didn't know what she was saying. 
“Larksong’s not ill because of what Bramblestar has done." 

“I don't believe you!” Sparkpelt hissed. “If Bramblestar hadn't gone against Tigerstar so many 
times, Larksong would be fine now!” 

The brambles rustled at the entrance. “What's going on?" Bramblestar nosed his way in, anxiety 
glittering in his gaze. “I heard yowling." 

Daisy looked at him anxiously. “Sparkpelt’s upset, that's all. She's had a difficult day.” 

Sparkpelt snarled at him. “Do you admit it?” 

“Admit what?” He looked taken aback. 

“If you hadn’t done everything you could to make Tigerstar angry, Larksong would be fine now!” 
Sparkpelt’s eyes narrowed into slits. 

Bramblestar stared at her, his pelt ruffling along his spine. “I don’t understand.” He glanced 
questioningly at Squirrel flight. 

“She’s worried that ShadowClan might have poisoned the fresh-kill pile when they visited the 
camp earlier.” Squirrelflight shifted uneasily. She was angry with Bramblestar, but he didn’t deserve 
this. He had enough worries already. And yet Sparkpelt was clearly suffering. Please don t argue. 

Bramblestar tipped his head to one side and blinked at Sparkpelt. “How could they have poisoned 
the prey? We were all here watching them.” 


“They’ve done it before!” Sparkpelt hissed. 

Daisy looked anxiously from father to daughter. “Juniperclaw did that, and he’s dead now,” she 
repeated. 

“All ShadowClan cats are the same.” Sparkpelt flexed her claws. “They’d poison their own 
mothers for more territory.” 

“That’s not true.” Squirrelflight edged closer to Sparkpelt. She had to calm her down. This 
couldn't be doing the kits any good. “ShadowClan cats are warriors just like us. They wouldn't break 
the warrior code.” 

Sparkpelt held her ground. “They would if they were pushed far enough, and Bramblestar has 
done nothing but get in Tigerstar's way.” She glared accusingly at her father. 

“Bramblestar’s been doing what's best for the Clans," Squirrelflight argued. 

“Why are you sticking up for him?" Sparkpelt stared at her. *He's hardly spoken to you in days. 
He's been treating you like an apprentice. And you're defending him! Why are you being such a 
mouse-heart?" 

Bramblestar's hackles lifted. “Don’t talk to your mother like that!” he hissed. “I don't care how 
upset you are. Hurting cats who love you isn't going to help Larksong. It's just going to make 
everyone as miserable as you are. I’m sorry Larksong is ill, and we'll do everything we can to make 
sure he gets well again, but don't accuse your mother of being a mouse-heart. She's one of the bravest 
warriors I know. And I am doing everything I can to keep peace among the Clans. I have to stand up to 
Tigerstar, or he'll push SkyClan around forever.” Hurt glittered suddenly in the ThunderClan leader’s 
gaze. “It's hard standing up for what you believe in, and it's even harder when the cats who are 
supposed to support you undermine you instead." 

As his gaze flashed from Sparkpelt to Squirrelflight, claws seemed to pierce Squirrelflight's 
heart. Bramblestar’s tail swept the ground. “I’m trying to lead a Clan! How can I expect my warriors 
to follow me if my own kin challenge me at every turn?" Growling, he pushed his way out of the den. 

Daisy shifted her paws. “It's been a difficult day for everyone." She gazed sympathetically at 
Squirrelflight. “Why don't you get some air, and ГІІ make sure Sparkpelt rests.” 

Sparkpelt was staring after her father, her eyes hollow with grief. “I’m sorry.” She dragged her 
gaze to Squirrelflight. 

"It's okay,” Squirrelflight murmured. “I know you're upset." She felt suddenly weary. You'll feel 
better in the morning. And I'm sure Leafpool will have found a way to help Larksong by then." She 
touched her nose to Sparkpelt's head, then headed out of the den, relieved to leave her daughter in 
Daisy's care for a while. She crossed to the medicine den. Had Leafpool, Jayfeather, and Alderheart 
come up with a cure? She ducked inside, disappointment dropping like a stone in her belly as she saw 
Leafpool and Jayfeather murmuring, heads close together at the back of the cave. They looked as 
worried as ever, and Alderheart was wiping another drop of bile from Larksong's lips. 

Lilyheart, Larksong's mother, sat beside the nest, her eyes round with worry. She blinked at 
Squirrelflight when she saw her. “What could have caused this?" 

Squirrelflight shook her head. “We don't know." 

"Could it be deathberry poisoning?" Lilyheart fretted. 

“There are no deathberries in the camp," Squirrelflight meowed, irritated. 

*ShadowClan might have brought some. We know Puddleshine uses them." 

Leafpool looked up. “This isn't deathberry poisoning. We don't recognize these symptoms." 

Lilyheart's pelt bristled. “They might have found another poison!” 

Squirrelflight fixed Lilyheart's gaze with her own. “ShadowClan had nothing to do with this.” She 


mustn’t let rumors about ShadowClan's involvement in Larksong’s illness take hold. There was 
enough tension among the Clans already. “Larksong’s illness is a shock and a tragedy. He's always 
been a strong, healthy warrior, and it’s frightening to see him get so sick so quickly. But we’re going 
to find out what caused it.” She eyed Leafpool desperately. “And we’re going to find out how to cure 
it.” Fear wormed in her belly as Leafpool’s gaze darkened. She was making Lilyheart promises they 
might not be able to keep, but she had to give the small, dark tabby hope. This sickness had come 
from nowhere. It could have been caused by anything. Larksong might be only the first cat to be struck 
down by a sickness the Clans had never experienced before. And if 1t spread, hope might be all that 
ThunderClan had. 





CHAPTER 15 


Se 


“I’m coming with you.” Squirrelflight squared her shoulders as she faced Jayfeather. 

Jayfeather narrowed his eyes. “This is between medicine cats." 

Alderheart shifted beside the blind tom. We're going to talk to Puddleshine, to see if he has seen 
anything like Larksong's sickness in ShadowClan." 

"[ have to put the Clan's minds at rest," Squirrelflight insisted. Through the night, rumors that 
ShadowClan had been the cause of Larksong's sickness had spread like fleas through the Clan. By 
morning, as the rain clouds cleared from above the camp, her Clanmates had barely listened to her 
orders for the day's patrols. 

Lionblaze had paced the clearing with ruffled fur. *We should send a patrol to ShadowClan." 

“They can't get away with poisoning a second Clan," Cinderheart had agreed. 

Around them, Poppyfrost, Cherryfall, and Molewhisker had nodded, murmuring their agreement. 

Bramblestar had scrambled down from the Highledge and stood beside Squirrelflight. “We don't 
have any proof that ShadowClan caused this. And there's so much tension among the Clans that an 
accusation like this might lead to war." 

The warriors had backed down and, grumbling, gone on patrol. But Squirrelflight was convinced 
that the rumors would rumble on unless some cat investigated the claims of poisoning. 

Now she blinked hopefully at Alderheart and Jayfeather as they prepared to leave for the 
ShadowClan camp. “11 tell ShadowClan I’m escorting you. ГЇЇ tell them that we're worried about 
the threat from the Sisters." Guilt pricked at her belly. The Sisters weren't a threat to any cat. But she 
had to get into the ShadowClan camp and find proof that ShadowClan was innocent. 

Jayfeather's tail twitched impatiently. “You ought to ask Bramblestar's permission," he grunted. 
“We can't accuse ShadowClan without proof.” 

“Tm not going to accuse anyone," Squirrelflight told him. “I just want to see how ShadowClan 
acts when I tell them about Larksong. ГІІ be able to tell if they're guilty.” 

Jayfeather snorted. “ShadowClan is always guilty of something.” 

Squirrelflight held her ground. *I have to come with you." 

Alderheart met her gaze nervously. “ShadowClan might take offense 1f we bring a warrior to their 
camp. You should get Bramblestar's permission." 

Squirrelflight swallowed her frustration. *Bramblestar is out hunting," she reminded them. “I 
can't ask him now." 

“We can't wait." Alderheart glanced anxiously toward the medicine den. 

“If Puddleshine knows of a way to help Larksong, we need to hear it as soon as possible," 
Jayfeather chimed. 

Squirrelflight gazed at them desperately. She was Clan deputy. If she wanted to travel with them, 
she could. And yet she knew they were right. Tensions with ShadowClan were already high. If her 
visit to their camp made things worse, ThunderClan could find itself facing battle. She needed 
Bramblestar's support for her mission. And, she realized, she needed his support as her mate. She 
was always better with him behind her. She should have realized that from the start. “Let's find him,” 
she suggested. 

“He could be anywhere," Jayfeather objected. 


“He said he was going to hunt near the beech grove,” she told him. “It’s not far out of the way. We 
could stop and get Bramblestar’s permission.” 

Jayfeather’s ear twitched. “I guess we could,” he conceded. “But I’m not going to wait around 
while you search the area. If we find him, great. If we don't, you ought to return home.” 

"Okay," Squirrelflight agreed reluctantly. She would respect her medicine cat's wishes. 

She let Jayfeather and Alderheart lead the way through the thorn tunnel, relieved to be out of camp 
as they headed into the forest. She couldn't help Larksong, but hopefully she could put her Clanmates’ 
minds at rest by proving that ShadowClan wasn't involved. 

Jayfeather followed a rabbit trail into the swaths of blueberry bushes that covered the forest floor 
around the hollow. Alderheart followed, his gaze darting here and there as though looking for prey. 

"Are you hoping to hunt?" Squirrelflight called to him as she padded behind them. 

“I’m looking for herbs," he called back. “New patches appear at the end of greenleaf. They'll be 
too young to harvest, but it's useful to notice where they'll appear again in newleaf.” 

Pride warmed Squirrelflight's pelt. She remembered Alderheart as a kit, hardly able to tell a good 
piece of prey from a bad one. He'd been a terrible warrior apprentice, but he'd found his feet as a 
medicine cat. Now he could recognize every herb in the forest. He's grown up now, she thought with a 
pang of grief. He doesn t need me anymore. She pushed away the longing as she imagined a nest of 
newborn kits. 

The forest sloped. She pricked her ears. The beech grove was beyond the next rise. Opening her 
mouth, she let the air bathe her tongue, searching for Bramblestar's scent. What if he wasn't there? If 
she had to turn back, would Jayfeather and Alderheart be able to tell whether ShadowClan had been 
involved in Larksong's sickness? They hadn't known them as long as she had. She scanned the woods. 
Thick brambles crowded between the beeches. The forest was lighter here. Sunshine glimmered 
through delicate leaves. She felt its warmth on her pelt and slowed, narrowing her eyes as she 
searched for a sign of Bramblestar's hunting party. 

Jayfeather, who was hurrying ahead, turned his face toward her, his blind blue gaze flashing 
through the green undergrowth. “We can't slow down,” he told Squirrelflight. “Larksong is depending 
on us." 

Alderheart pushed through a stand of ferns. *Bramblestar's not here." His eyes glittered with 
worry. *Are you going to head back?" 

"We're not out of the beech grove yet.” Squirrelflight padded onward, her breath shallow as she 
scanned the forest desperately for some sign of Bramblestar's patrol. 

Jayfeather shrugged and pushed on, his tail flicking behind him. 

Squirrelflight could see the shadows ahead where the beeches gave way to oak and pine beyond. 
She pricked her ears, listening for paw steps. Ahead, the brambles thinned, and Jayfeather padded 
softly into a clearing. As he crossed it, Squirrelflight's heart sank. He isn t here. Her paws tingled 
with the urge to keep moving, to go anyway, but in her heart she knew that wouldn't work. Between 
Jayfeather's objections and Bramblestar's possible reaction, it could have terrible results . . . and she 
just couldn't do that to Bramblestar again. So she wouldn't be able to visit ShadowClan after all. 
““Alderheart.” She ducked from beneath a bramble. 

He blinked at her. “What?” 

“Will you ask Puddleshine whether the poison might have come from ShadowClan?” 

His pelt ruffled. “I can’t accuse his Clanmates.” 

“But you'll try to find out as much as you can,” Squirrelflight pressed. 

Jayfeather stopped in the clearing. “If Larksong’s sickness has anything to do with ShadowClan, 


we'll find out,” he promised. “But we're not going to start a fight. We're healers, not warriors." 

“T know.” Squirrelflight’s paws pricked with frustration. She stopped as they headed toward the 
border, watching them disappear among the brambles on the far side of the clearing. Her heart sank. 
She hated feeling so powerless. As she turned back to camp, paws thrummed the ground. A squirrel 
shot from the brambles beside her and cut across her path. It disappeared into the bracken on the other 
side. Excitement flashed beneath her pelt. As she turned to chase it, a cat exploded from the brambles. 
Ginger fur blazed past her. Cherryfall! A second warrior burst from the brambles, then a third. 
Berrynose and Dewnose were on Cherryfall’s heels, their pelts fluffed as they plunged into the 
bracken. 

“Squirrelflight!” Bramblestar’s mew made her jump. She turned as he scrambled to a halt beside 
her. His tail was bushed and his eyes shone. “What are you doing here?” 

“Looking for you.” 

“Why?” Bramblestar was out of breath. 

Squirrelflight nodded toward the brambles where the medicine cats had disappeared. “Jayfeather 
and Alderheart are going to consult with Puddleshine about Larksong,” she explained quickly. “I want 
to go with them.” 

“To question ShadowClan about the sickness?" Bramblestar narrowed his eyes. 

"[ wasn't going to question them, but I want to see how they react when I tell them about 
Larksong. There are too many rumors in ThunderClan. I need to tell our Clanmates that I saw for 
myself that ShadowClan has nothing to do with this." 

"Are you afraid some of our warriors will take revenge?" 

“T just think there's enough tension on the border at the moment." She searched Bramblestar's 
gaze. Was he going to send her back to camp? 

He whisked his tail. “I think it’s a good idea.” 

“You do?” Surprise fizzed beneath her pelt. She could hardly remember the last time they’d 
agreed. 

“There’s no harm in warning ShadowClan that there might be sickness or infected prey around.” 
Bramblestar looked toward the ShadowClan border. “And if you find any suggestion that 
ShadowClan might have been involved, at least we'll know the worst and be able to prepare.” 

She blinked at him. “So I can go?” 

“I think you should hurry.” Bramblestar peered through the trees. “Jayfeather’s probably at the 
border by now.” 

Squirrelflight lifted her tail. “Thanks, Bramblestar.” She broke into a run, racing along the route 
Jayfeather and Alderheart had taken. The scent of pines bathed her nose as she neared the border. She 
could see Jayfeather’s gray pelt, pale in the shadows. Alderheart paced beside him. 

They looked around, blinking as she crashed through a patch of ferns and pulled up beside them. 

“I found Bramblestar,” she puffed. “He thinks it’s a good idea if I come with you.” 

Jayfeather flicked his tail and turned his muzzle back toward the border, tasting the air. “You made 
it just in time. Here comes a ShadowClan patrol.” 

Squirrel flight pricked her ears, listening for the sound of paw steps. 

Alderheart stretched his muzzle forward, scanning the pines. “Where?” 

As he spoke, pelts showed in the shadows. Squirrelflight recognized Snowbird’s white pelt 
moving between the trees. Snaketooth and Cinnamontail were with her. 

Snowbird’s eyes narrowed as she headed toward the border, her hostile gaze fixed on Jayfeather. 
“What do you want?” she asked sharply as she reached them. 


“We need to speak with Puddleshine,” Jayfeather told her. 

“There’s sickness in our camp,” Alderheart added. “We need his advice.” 

“And to warn Tigerstar,” Squirrelflight mewed quickly. 

“Warn him?” Snowbird narrowed her eyes. “About what?" 

“ГИ tell that to him,” Squirrelflight meowed pointedly. 

“Tigerstar’s out hunting,” Snaketooth grunted. 

“I can speak to Cloverfoot,” Squirrelflight told him. Would ShadowClan's deputy know as much 
as their leader? 

Snowbird’s nose twitched warily. “How do we know you're not bringing the sickness with you?" 

"We're fine," Jayfeather promised. “A medicine cat would never knowingly spread illness.” 

Snowbird eyed him, then nodded. “Okay.” She sniffed his pelt as he crossed the border. 
Alderheart followed. Squirrelflight glanced at Snaketooth and Cinnamontail, then padded after her 
Clanmates. 

The ShadowClan warriors kept their distance as they escorted the ThunderClan patrol to the 
ShadowClan camp. Snaketooth and Snowbird exchanged glances but didn't speak until the camp wall 
loomed between the trees. 

*Go straight to Puddleshine's den," Snowbird told Jayfeather as she ducked through the entrance 
tunnel. 

*Why would I want to go anyplace else?" Jayfeather padded after her. 

Squirrelflight followed, Alderheart at her heels. 

Acrid ShadowClan scent filled her nose as she emerged into the clearing. Sparrowtail and 
Whorlpelt were dragging old bedding from a den. Yarrowleaf and Berryheart sorted through the 
fresh-kill pile. Outside the elders' den, Lightpaw and Pouncepaw were practicing battle moves in 
front of Oakfur and Ratscar. The apprentices paused as they saw the ThunderClan patrol, turning their 
heads to stare as Jayfeather and Alderheart crossed to Puddleshine's den. 

Puddleshine ducked out, his eyes lighting as he saw Jayfeather and Alderheart. “It’s good to see 
you." He stretched his nose forward, greeting them warmly, and led them inside. 

“Can I speak with Cloverfoot now?" Squirrelflight asked Snowbird. 

Snowbird swished her tail. “Wait here." As she headed across the clearing, Ratscar sat up and 
stared at Squirrelflight. Hostility sharpened his gaze. Sparrowtail and Whorlpelt uncurled their 
claws. Yarrowleaf pushed a vole to one side and padded closer, her hackles lifting. 

Squirrelflight forced her pelt to stay smooth. ShadowClan clearly wasn't pleased to see her. They 
must resent the agreement ThunderClan had made with WindClan as much as their leader did. She felt 
their stares burning though her pelt as she waited for Snowbird to return with Cloverfoot. 

Snowbird disappeared into a den at the far end of the camp. She emerged a few moments later, 
Cloverfoot at her heels. The ShadowClan deputy stared curiously at Squirrelflight, pausing for a 
moment before crossing the clearing. 

Squirrelflight padded to meet her, stopping short as Cloverfoot fluffed out her gray tabby pelt, her 
gaze hardening into anger. 

“What are you doing here?" Cloverfoot asked icily as she reached Squirrelflight. 

"[ came to warn you that one of our warriors is very sick." Squirrelflight dipped her head 
politely. 

Cloverfoot frowned. “Why should we care?" 

*We don't know what caused his sickness." Squirrelflight watched Cloverfoot carefully. Would 
the ShadowClan deputy give anything away? “He might have eaten tainted prey or picked up an 


illness in the forest. I thought ShadowClan should know, because we share borders and your warriors 
might be exposed to whatever made Larksong sick.” 

Cloverfoot narrowed her eyes. “Thank you for letting us know.” 

“Have any of your cats become ill?” Squirrelflight glanced around the camp, quickly reading the 
expressions of the other ShadowClan cats. She couldn't see guilt there, only curiosity. 

“No.” Cloverfoot whisked her tail. “Did you say Larksong might have eaten tainted prey?” 

“He might have,” Squirrelflight told her. “We’re not sure yet.” Cloverfoot wasn't showing any 
sign that ShadowClan might be responsible. *He's the only cat who's sick. So we're hoping it's an 
isolated incident." 

“T hope so too." Concern flashed for a moment in Cloverfoot’s eyes. She blinked it away. “I think 
you should leave now and take your medicine cats with you." 

“But they want to consult with Puddleshine about Larksong's symptoms." Had they had enough 
time to probe for clues about ShadowClan's involvement in their Clanmate's sickness? 

"They've had long enough." Cloverfoot grew brisk. “There are injured cats trying to rest in the 
medicine den." 

"Injured cats?" Squirrelflight pricked her ears. Was ShadowClan in trouble? Another fight with 
the Sisters? Her chest tightened. 

“A dispute with RiverClan border patrol," Cloverfoot told her. “Since they found out about your 
agreement with WindClan, they've been pushing their border farther and farther, trying to reclaim 
their marshland." Anger ruffled her pelt. 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws self-consciously. “I’m sorry to hear that.” 

“You caused it," Cloverfoot snapped. 

The camp wall shivered. Squirrelflight stiffened as Tigerstar padded into camp. Dovewing, 
Strikestone, and Scorchfur followed at his heels. He glared at her. *What are you doing here?" 

Cloverfoot answered for her. *Squirrelflight's come to report a sick cat in ThunderClan." 

"There are wounded cats here thanks to ThunderClan." Tigerstar padded toward her, his hackles 
lifting. 

“Tm sorry RiverClan is causing trouble,” Squirrelflight said, forcing her fur to remain flat. “But 
we can't be held responsible for borders that don't belong to us.” 

Tigerstar glared at her. “Even when you caused the dispute?" 

“We don't control RiverClan." Relief washed Squirrelflight's pelt as Jayfeather and Alderheart 
padded from Puddleshine's den. They should leave. Tigerstar seemed ready for a fight. Quick. She 
beckoned them with a flick of her tail. 

Tigerstar kept his gaze fixed on her. “How can you be so arrogant?" Anger hardened his mew. 
“You stop us finding new land for SkyClan—" 

Squirrelflight interrupted him. “SkyClan hasn't agreed to move yet.” 

Tigerstar snorted. “Everyone knows that Leafstar thinks the mountain territory would make a 
perfect home for SkyClan.” 

“But moving there is SkyClan's choice, not yours," Squirrelflight insisted. “Besides, the Sisters 
still live there. In a moon, the Sisters will be gone and Leafstar will have made a decision." 

“A moon!” Tigerstar lashed his tail. “How many warriors will have been injured in a moon?" 

“None, if you and RiverClan agree to wait.” 

"Like you and WindClan agreed to wait?" Tigerstar spat. *How can we expect anything but 
hostility from RiverClan now that you've given WindClan their moorland back?" 

"Perhaps you should think about giving RiverClan their marshland back—" 


Tigerstar cut her off. “How dare you?” he hissed. “You tell me that SkyClan must make their own 
decision, then tell me I should give RiverClan our land!” 

“Pm just trying to help.” Heat burned Squirrelflight's pelt. She could understand Tigerstar’s 
frustration. But for the sake of the Sisters, he had to wait. 

Jayfeather flicked his tail impatiently. “The last argument didn't solve this, and neither will this 
one." He turned his blind blue gaze on Squirrelflight. “We should get back to camp. Leafpool might 
need our help." 

A growl rumbled in Tigerstar's throat. “Your medicine cat is right. Leave." He nodded to 
Dovewing and Scorchfur. *Escort them to the border." 

“We know the way," Squirrelflight told him, bristling. 

“I want to make sure you go." Tigerstar eyed her darkly. 

As Squirrelflight stalked past him, he called after her. “Tell Bramblestar that if our border dispute 
goes on much longer, we won't wait for StarClan to decide whether we can take the Sisters' land, or 
for Leafstar to make her decision. We'll take the land ourselves. RiverClan might even help us, for the 
sake of peace." 

She ignored him, but her belly churned with fear. The Sisters were impressive and powerful cats, 
but could they defend themselves against the aggression of two Clans? 

Alderheart fell in beside her, his gaze flitting anxiously around the camp. From all sides, 
ShadowClan cats were glowering at them menacingly. 

Jayfeather padded behind, his tail twitching as Dovewing and Scorchfur followed. “Warriors,” he 
grumbled. “All they think about is borders." 

As they ducked out of the camp, Dovewing and Scorchfur fanned out. Scorchfur stared ahead, his 
pelt bristling along his spine. 

Dovewing glanced nervously at Squirrelflight. “Tigerstar has a point," she murmured. 

Squirrelflight looked at her, surprised. Dovewing had been raised in ThunderClan. She had kin 
there and had been a loyal ThunderClan warrior until she'd joined ShadowClan to be with Tigerstar 
so they could raise their kits together. 

Dovewing dropped her gaze. “I just mean I can see ShadowClan's point of view now." 

“T know they've lost territory,” Squirrelflight conceded. “But if they just wait a moon—" 

“It's not that.” Dovewing moved closer, lowering her voice. “It’s the way ThunderClan does 
things," she murmured. “I can see why the other Clans get irritated. ThunderClan cats only seem to be 
able to see their point of view. It's like they think they're better than everyone else. And Bramblestar 
always acts like he knows best, when he doesn't know any more than any other leader." 

“But he's smart,” Squirrelflight argued. 

“So 1s Tigerstar," Dovewing shot back. “And Mistystar and the others. They can see that moving 
SkyClan to new land would solve everyone's problems, but Bramblestar is hung up on making sure 
SkyClan's feelings don't get hurt. Tigerstar is right—the mountain territory would be great for 
SkyClan. It would be great for any Clan." 

Alarm sparked in Squirrelflight's pelt. *But what about the Sisters?" 

“Who cares about the Sisters?" Dovewing blinked at her. “They're just a bunch of rogues who 
don't even want the land. They were planning to move on anyway; we just want them to do it a little 
sooner. It's not like chasing a Clan from their home." 

Jayfeather sniffed beside them. “She has a point.” 

“No, she doesn't." Squirrelflight swished her tail crossly. “Being a warrior is more than being 
practical. It’s about doing what's right. Bramblestar is only trying to make sure that SkyClan doesn't 


feel they’re being pressured. It’s important that they feel like the other Clans respect them. And the 
Sisters aren't rogues. They're more like a Clan than you think. And their leader is expecting kits. 
What kind of fox-heart would chase an expectant mother from her den?” 

Dovewing shrugged. “I guess ThunderClan will never see that protecting your own Clan is 
sometimes more important than being right.” She moved away, shadowing the patrol but keeping 
distance between herself and her old Clanmates. 

Squirrelflight glanced at Jayfeather. “Does ThunderClan really think it’s better than everyone 
else?” 

Jayfeather grunted. “Every Clan thinks it's better than everyone else.” He quickened his pace, his 
empty gaze on the forest ahead. "Isn't that part of the warrior code?" 

Squirrelflight stared at him. Didn't cats believe in honor anymore? Couldn't they see that she and 
Bramblestar wanted the best for everyone? She shook out her fur. At least and she and Bramblestar 
agreed on something at last. The borders must stay the same until SkyClan and the Sisters were ready 
to move. A chill wormed beneath her pelt. But what if protecting the borders led the Clans into battle? 
War was the one thing StarClan had warned them against. She shivered. By protecting the Sisters, 
would she anger her ancestors? 





CHAPTER 16 


Se 


Leaves, green and brittle, drifted at the roots of the oak trees. They rustled in the wind as 
Squirrelflight, Jayfeather, and Alderheart crossed the border and headed home through ThunderClan 
territory. Squirrelflight glanced over her shoulder. Strikestone had turned away, but Dovewing was 
still watching them through narrowed eyes. Squirrelflight used to wonder 1f the former ThunderClan 
warrior felt a pang of regret when she met her old Clanmates, but 1t seemed that every hair on 
Dovewing's pelt was ShadowClan now. 

“T don't think they know anything about Larksong's sickness." Alderheart's mew jerked her from 
her thoughts. “Puddleshine had no idea what could have caused it. He was scared his Clanmates 
would catch it.” 

Relief washed Squirrelflight’s pelt. The sickness had nothing to do with ShadowClan. At least 
now 1t wouldn't mean war. “Cloverfoot was surprised, and I didn't notice any of her Clanmates 
looking guilty." She glanced at Jayfeather. “What do you think?" 

“I can't read thoughts anymore,” Jayfeather grunted. “But Tigerstar wasn’t hiding anything. I could 
hear it in his mew. ShadowClan had nothing to do with Larksong's illness. He must have picked up 
the infection in the forest.” 

As he spoke, a pile of leaves shivered in front of them. Squirrelflight pricked her ears. Prey was 
rustling beneath it. She stopped, signaling with a flick of her tail for Jayfeather and Alderheart to 
walt. They paused beside her as she opened her mouth. Mouse-scent touched her tongue. “This was 
where Larksong was hunting before he got sick.” Her pelt prickled. She glanced at the medicine cats. 
“Would you be able to tell if a mouse was tainted by examining 1t?" 

Alderheart blinked at her. *I don't know." 

“We could try,” Jayfeather mewed. “But you'd have to catch one first." 

"Okay." Squirrelflight dropped into a hunting crouch and crept forward, her belly brushing the 
earth. The leaves rustled again. She pictured the mouse underneath the pile, fixing with her gaze the 
place where it moved. Tensing, she bunched the muscles in her hind legs and leaped. She slammed 
her paws into the pile. Leaves exploded around her, fluttering to the ground as she jabbed her paws 
deep, feeling for soft flesh with outstretched claws. She hooked something warm. It wriggled in her 
grasp and squealed. The mouse. She tugged it out and, pinning it to the ground, gave a killing bite. 
Then she spat out the blood and flung the dead mouse toward Jayfeather and Alderheart. “Take a 
look." She scraped her tongue through her fur to clean any infection off it. Can you see anything 
strange?" 

Jayfeather ran his paw slowly over the mouse. “It feels okay. How does it look?" He turned his 
blind gaze on Alderheart. 

“Its eyes are clear." Alderheart told him. “Its pelt is clean and smooth. I can't see any blisters or 
scabs. It looks healthy." 

“Tt might be healthy.” Squirrelflight padded to join them. “It’s unlikely we found a tainted one first 
try. But we might be lucky." 

“I don't know if finding a poisonous mouse is lucky.” Alderheart wrinkled his nose. 

"Let's check inside." Jayfeather curled his claws into the carcass and tore it open. He sniffed at 
its innards. “It smells good." 


Alderheart peered closer. “Everything looks pink and healthy.” 

Jayfeather sat back on his haunches. “Either we’ve killed a healthy mouse, or this sickness is 
impossible to detect.” 

Squirrelflight frowned, worry worming beneath her pelt. “Or Larksong's sickness wasn't caused 
by a mouse." She felt suddenly exhausted and sat down. Her head swam. 

Alderheart looked at her sharply. “Are you okay?” 

“T don't know.” She gazed at him blearily. Tightness gripped her chest. She stiffened, alarmed. 
Did she have the same sickness as Larksong? 

“Let's rest here for a while.” Jayfeather padded toward her. He sniffed her muzzle. “Have you 
eaten today?” 

“Not yet,” she told him, dropping onto her belly. Weariness dragged at her bones. “I felt queasy 
this morning.” 

Jayfeather padded around her, sniffing her pelt. “You smell healthy. Are you expecting kits?” 

She stiffened. Could it be true? Hope flashed beneath her pelt. Had she been arguing with 
Bramblestar all this time unaware that she was carrying his kits? She frowned, doubtful. Her last 
litter hadn't made her feel like this. She'd felt stronger than ever when she'd been carrying Alderheart 
and Sparkpelt. And yet perhaps this time was different. If she was expecting kits, she wasn't ready for 
Jayfeather and Alderheart to know. 

"Are you?" Jayfeather repeated, his blind blue gaze fixed on her. 

“No,” she mewed quickly. “I’m probably just hungry." The dizziness was wearing off and she 
could breathe deeply again. “I’m starting to feel better.” 

“You should eat when we get back," Jayfeather advised. 

Alderheart padded closer, anxiety glittering in his gaze. “Perhaps you're just tired,” he meowed 
hopefully. 

“Yes.” She blinked at him. *That's probably what it is." She got to her paws and shook out her 
pelt. There was no point in worrying. “Let's get back to camp and tell them about ShadowClan.” 

Jayfeather padded beside her, turning his muzzle toward her from time to time as though worried. 

“Tm feeling fine,” she told him as they neared the camp. “Don’t mention this to any cat. Sparkpelt 
has enough to worry about." 

Jayfeather wasn't listening. His ears had swiveled toward the camp entrance. Alarm prickled 
through the fur along his spine. “Something’s wrong.” 

Squirrelflight's heart quickened as he darted forward and ducked through the thorn tunnel. 

She hurried after him. “What is it?” 

As she burst into camp, she heard anxious murmuring. Jayfeather was already haring toward the 
medicine den, Alderheart at his heels. Squirrelflight quickly scanned the camp. Blossomfall and 
Ivypool were clustered around Lilyheart, their eyes dark with worry. Thornclaw and Berrynose 
leaned close to each other, talking in hushed voices at the edge of the clearing. Bristlepaw, Thriftpaw, 
and Flippaw sat like owls, watching their Clanmates in wide-eyed silence as Twigbranch paced 
distractedly below the Highledge. 

Finleap hurried to meet her. “You're back.” His eyes glittered with alarm. 

“What's happened?" Panic shrilled through Squirrelflight’s fur. “Is it Larksong? Is һе...” Dead? 
She couldn't bring herself to say the word. 

Finleap stared at her wordlessly. 

It must be worse! Squirrelflight felt sick. “Sparkpelt?” Had the kits come? Had there been 
complications with the birth? Horror swamped her as Finleap nodded slowly. 


“She”s sick,” he mewed. 

Bramblestar pushed his way out of the medicine den. His eyes flashed as he saw Squirrelflight 
and he hurried across the clearing. “Don't be alarmed,” he meowed as he neared. “She”s a strong 
cat.” 

“What happened?” The breath caught in Squirrelflight’s throat. 

Bramblestar stopped in front of her, his eyes as round as moons. “She went to rest in the nursery,” 
he told her. “She’d been complaining of a tight chest. I went to check on her and found she wasn't 
breathing." 

The ground seemed to sway beneath Squirrelflight's paws. “Like Larksong." 

“T fetched Leafpool," Bramblestar went on. *She got her breathing again, and we took her to the 
medicine den. Leafpool's with her now. She's unconscious, but her breathing is fine. If she has the 
same sickness as Larksong, it doesn't seem to have affected her as badly." 

"But she stopped breathing!" Squirrelflight stared at him. 

“Her heartbeat is strong," Bramblestar told her. “And the kits are still moving." 

Squirrelflight's thoughts whirled. *What if you hadn't gone to check on her? What if she'd died 
without anyone realizing she was sick?" 

Bramblestar thrust his muzzle against her cheek and held it there. “She didn't die," he meowed 
steadily. *I checked on her and she's alive." 

Squirrelflight leaned against him, grateful for his warmth. She felt cold to the bone and fought to 
stop herself shivering. “Can I see her?" She drew away and looked deep into Bramblestar's eyes. 

“Of course." His gaze shimmered for a moment; then he looked away. 

Squirrelflight hurried across the clearing. She pushed through the trailing brambles, her heart 
racing. Sparkpelt was curled up in a nest beside Larksong's. Leafpool sat beside her. Alderheart 
watched anxiously as Jayfeather touched his nose to Sparkpelt's fur. 

The blind medicine cat drew away, frowning. “Гуе never known a sickness that doesn't smell 
like sickness." He shook out his pelt, then nodded to Alderheart, as though coming to a decision. 
“We’re going to check on every cat in the Clan," he told him. “If any of them is tired, or has difficulty 
breathing, we'll send them to the medicine den. That way we can stop it spreading." He glanced at 
Leafpool. *Okay?" 

Leafpool nodded. “It’s a good plan." 

As Jayfeather led Alderheart out of the den, Squirrelflight met Leafpool's gaze. “You saved her 
life." Her heart ached with gratitude. 

Leafpool dipped her head. “Bramblestar is the one who found her." 

Squirrelflight felt a rush of affection for her mate. It was comforting to know that, whatever had 
happened between them, he was always there for their kits. She padded to Sparkpelt's nest. Her 
daughter looked suddenly small among the bracken fronds. Squirrelflight bent to touch her nose to 
Sparkpelt's fur, but Leafpool put out a paw. “Don’t get too close," she warned. “Until we know 
what's causing this, it's best to stay clear." 

Squirrelflight's heart seemed to crack. “But she's my daughter.” 

“That doesn't mean you won't catch it from her." Leafpool gazed gently at Squirrelflight. 

“Will her kits be okay?" Squirrelflight asked. 

“I felt them moving before you came in. They seem strong." 

Squirrelflight hesitated. Should she tell Leafpool about feeling unwell on the way home? No. How 
could she help her Clan if she were confined to the medicine den? But Leafpool should know about 
my kits in case I get sick. “I think I may be expecting,” she told Leafpool. 


“Really?” Leafpool’s eyes widened with surprise. “Are you sure?” 

Doubt tugged in Squirrelflight's belly. Leafpool had said that she always knew when a cat was 
expecting kits. Am I wrong? She changed the subject. “How’s Larksong?” She looked at the black 
tom’s nest. Larksong was barely more than a shadow against the bracken. 

“He still hasn’t woken and he’s had difficulty breathing,” Leafpool told her. “But we’re giving 
him tansy and chervil root. And we’ve managed to get a little water into his mouth.” 

Squirrelflight felt numb. What if he died? What if Sparkpelt died too, and their unborn kits? She 
headed for the entrance, shaking out her pelt before the thought could take hold. She pushed through 
the brambles, holding her face up to the sunshine. Perhaps the light could wash away the darkness she 
felt welling inside her. 

Around the edge of the clearing, Jayfeather and Alderheart moved from warrior to warrior, 
leaning close as they checked them for symptoms. Finleap and Twigbranch moved aside as Graystripe 
padded from the elders’ den, his eyes dark. Flippaw paced nervously around Hollytuft, while 
Bristlepaw and Thriftpaw seemed rooted to the ground. 

Thornclaw was blinking anxiously at Bramblestar. “Could Sparkpelt have eaten a tainted mouse 
too?” 

“We haven't hunted anywhere near the place Larksong’s mouse was caught,” Bramblestar 
reasoned. 

Graystripe padded closer. “Perhaps there are tainted mice all over the forest. Sickness spreads 
between prey just as 1t spreads between cats.” 

Bramblestar's pelt bristled along his spine. “It might not even be prey that's causing the sickness. 
What if Larksong picked up sickness in the forest and passed it to Sparkpelt?” 

“Where could he have picked it up?" Thornclaw frowned. “We’ve never seen anything like it 
before." 

Mousewhisker padded nearer. “It might be a sickness from outside the Clans." 

Bramblestar blinked at him. “Larksong hasn't left Clan territory.” 

Squirrelflight tensed. A thought surfaced that she didn't dare acknowledge. 

Thornclaw's gaze flashed suddenly. “But strange cats have come onto Clan territory." 
Squirrelflight stared at him, knowing what he was going to say next. The dark warrior growled. “The 
Sisters might have carried this sickness with them." 

Bramblestar pricked his ears. Graystripe and Mousewhisker swapped glances. It made sense. 

Squirrelflight padded quickly forward. “PIL visit them.” If they'd brought this illness into the 
Clans, she had to warn them. “ГЇЇ see if they're sick.” As she spoke, Alderheart nudged Berrynose 
toward the medicine den. The pale warrior padded toward the trailing brambles, his eyes sparking 
with fear. 

“Are you sick?" Mousewhisker asked Berrynose as he passed. 

Berrynose glanced at him. “My chest is a little tight, that's all.” 

“I just want to keep an eye on him," Alderheart explained. 

Jayfeather looked up beside Thriftpaw. The apprentice's ears were twitching nervously. 
“Thriftpaw is wheezing," he mewed. 

Alderheart hurried toward the young she-cat and pressed an ear to her chest. He straightened. 
"You'd better go to the medicine den too.” 

Thriftpaw's eyes widened. “Am I sick?" 

“Youre probably fine,” Jayfeather told her. Across the clearing, Ivypool got to her paws, her pelt 
spiking with alarm. “But it’s best if we watch you for a while.” 


Ivypool hurried toward her kit, panic glittering in her gaze. “Pll go with her.” 

Jayfeather shook his head. “If this sickness is contagious, we need to keep the affected cats 
isolated until we’ve found a way to treat it.” 

Ivypool stared as Alderheart guided Thriftpaw toward the medicine den. Thriftpaw glanced at her 
mother as he passed. She blinked reassuringly, but Squirrelflight could see fear in the young cat's 
eyes. 

“PII go to the Sisters’ camp now,” she told Bramblestar. “If they do have this sickness, they might 
know a cure.” 

Bramblestar nodded. “Take a patrol with you.” 

She blinked at him, expecting him to choose warriors to go with her, but he turned and followed 
Alderheart toward the medicine den. Did he trust her to pick her own patrols again? She felt a flash of 
relief. “Ivypool.” She nodded to the silver-and-white tabby. “I want you to come with me.” Ivypool 
glanced toward the medicine den. “You can stay here if you want,” Squirrelflight told her. “But you'll 
be more help to me than you will be to Thriftpaw right now.” 

Ivypool dipped her head. “PI come." 

“Twigbranch.” Squirrelflight nodded to the gray she-cat. “I want you to come too. And Finleap.” 

Twigbranch glanced toward the medicine den. “Should we take a medicine cat, to examine the 
Sisters?" she ventured. 

“Good idea." Squirrelflight flicked her tail. “Go and tell Leafpool that I need her." 

As Twigbranch hurried away, Squirrelflight felt her chest tighten again. She tensed. Was she sick, 
and not expecting kits at all? She shook out her pelt. If 5 just anxiety, she told herself. [JI be okay. 
She forced herself to relax, letting her breath deepen. She couldn't be sick now. She had to find out 
where this mysterious illness had come from and how to cure it. Sparkpelt's life could depend on it. 





CHAPTER 17 


% 


By the time Squirrelflight led the way down the thickly brambled slope toward the ferns that 
screened the Sisters’ camp entrance, the moon was shining high above the small valley where they 
had made their home. 

She stopped outside and raised her muzzle. “Moonlight? It's me." 

Branches rustled beyond the ferns, and Snow’s mew answered. “Squirrelflight?” 

“Yes.” Squirrelflight flicked her tail toward Ivypool, Twigbranch, and Finleap, signaling them to 
stay back. She didn't want the Sisters to think this was anything but a friendly visit. “Can I come in? 
I've brought some Clanmates with me." 

Paw steps sounded in the grassy clearing. Voices echoed in the night. 

“What are they doing here this time of night?" 

“Why has she brought campmates?" 

"Let's find out.” Moonlight answered them briskly. “Come in, Squirrelflight. Bring your 
Clanmates." 

Squirrelflight nosed her way through the ferns. The Sisters ringed the clearing, staring with wide, 
moonlit eyes as the ThunderClan cats filed into camp. Moonlight's belly was more swollen than ever. 
She hung back, flanked by Snow and Tempest, and eyed the patrol warily. "It's late for a visit. Are 
you here with another warning?" 

“I wanted to speak to you as soon as I could." Squirrelflight scanned the sisters, looking for signs 
of illness. Sunrise wasn't with them. “Are you all well?” She pricked her ears, searching Moonlight’s 
gaze as the large gray she-cat answered. 

“We are." 

“And Sunrise?" Squirrelflight glanced anxiously at Leafpool. 

“She's resting," Moonlight's ears twitched. She was clearly unnerved by the patrol's arrival. 

Leafpool padded forward. “May I see her?" 

“Her wound is almost healed," Moonlight told her. 

“Pd like to check," Leafpool pressed. 

“Okay.” Moonlight nodded to Furze. “Take her to Sunrise's den.” 

Furze beckoned Leafpool with a flick of her tail and led her through a gap in the dogwood at the 
edge of the clearing. 

As Leafpool disappeared, Squirrelflight glanced around at the Sisters. Their long, thick pelts 
were disheveled. Was that sickness, or was their fur simply ruffled by sleep? 

Tempest shook out her fur, as though conscious of Squirrelflight's gaze. “Why bring so many 
Clanmates just to check on Sunrise?" 

“Bramblestar told me to bring a patrol with me," Squirrelflight told her. 

Amusement flashed in Moonlight's gaze. *Are you still trying to please him?" 

Squirrelflight swished her tail. *He's my leader, and my mate." How could Moonlight 
understand? She had neither. 

“Of course." Moonlight dipped her head. Her gaze was still firm when she lifted it again. “But 
you are not just here to check on Sunrise." As she spoke, Leafpool padded from the dogwood. 

"She's healed well." Leafpool met Moonlight's gaze. “You found the herbs you needed?" 


“Yes.” Moonlight turned her questioning gaze back to Squirrelflight. “Is Sunrise why you came?” 

“There is sickness in our camp,” Squirrelflight told her. “We came to find out if you had it too.” 

“Were you worried that you’d passed it on to us?” Moonlight narrowed her eyes. “Or that we’d 
brought it to you?” 

Squirrelflight avoided the question. “We were worried you might be sick.” 

"We're not." Moonlight eyed her curiously. 

Relief washed Squirrelflight's pelt. She'd tried not to think how the Clans would react if they 
thought the Sisters had bought sickness to the forest. “Then it must be caused by prey. Be careful what 
you catch. We think there might be tainted prey in the forest." 

Snow's pelt prickled. “We hunt here, not in your forest." 

Leafpool padded to Squirrelflight's side. “We don't know what has tainted the prey, and whatever 
itis might have spread here." 

Ivypool stepped forward, her eyes glittering anxiously. “Have you seen any sick prey?" 

Moonlight narrowed her eyes. *Not that we've noticed. And nothing has made us ill." 

Finleap shifted behind Squirrelflight. “If there's nothing to learn here," he mewed, “we should 
head back." 

Twigbranch moved closer. *Do you think any other cats will have fallen sick while we've been 
away?" 

"[ hope not." Squirrelflight's belly tightened. She dipped her head politely to Moonlight. “Pm 
sorry we disturbed you." 

As she turned to go, Moonlight's eyes narrowed. “What are the symptoms of this sickness?" 

“It comes on quickly,” Leafpool told her. “The patient feels tired, then suddenly collapses and 
stops breathing. We've managed to keep the first two victims alive, but they're unconscious and 
bringing up bile. If we can't treat them soon, they might die." 

Moonlight looked at Snow. Flickers of recognition seemed to spark in their gaze. 

Squirrelflight stiffened. “Do you know what's causing it?" 

“We thought it was strange that you let meadow saffron grow in your forest," Snow meowed. 

Moonlight sat down, her heavy belly resting on her hind paws. “We thought that Clan cats must be 
immune to its poison." 

“Meadow saffron?” Squirrelflight had never heard of it. “What is it?” 

“Haven't you seen the purple flowers?” Hawk asked. “We saw a few while we were on your 
land." 

Squirrelflight glanced at Leafpool. She hadn't noticed any unusual plants, but the medicine cats 
might have spotted it. *Have you seen any?" 

“No.” Leafpool looked perplexed. “But we weren't looking for it.” 

Moonlight's gaze had darkened with concern. “When we settle new land, we dig up any meadow 
saffron we find. Mice and shrews like to eat the roots and seeds. It doesn’t hurt them, but it makes 
them harmful to us." 

Leafpool pricked her ears. “How do you know this?" 

“Our ancestors passed on the knowledge,” Tempest explained. “The Twolegs they escaped from 
grew meadow saffron near their nest." 

Squirrelflight's heart quickened. Had they found the cause of Sparkpelt's sickness? “But how did 
this plant get on our land?" 

Hawk frowned. “It might have spread from Twoleg gardens." 

Moonlight nodded. “If a Twoleg near your territory has planted some near their nest, birds will 


eat the seeds and drop them on your land.” 

Leafpool’s eyes were wide. “Is there a cure?” 

Moonlight shrugged. “Dandelion root will clear the poison from inside. But treatment must be 
fast, before the poison takes hold.” 

Ivypool’s tail twitched impatiently. “We must get back!” 

“Thank you.” Squirrelflight nodded to Moonlight. “You may have saved the lives of our 
Clanmates.” As she turned toward the entrance, Ivypool hesitated. 

“Thank you.” The silver warrior’s gaze flitted gratefully around the Sisters. 

Moonlight dipped her head. “Pm glad we could help.” 

Squirrelflight pushed her way through the ferns. Hope sparked in her fur. But 1t was a long journey 
home. Would they make it back in time to save Sparkpelt? 


As the patrol crossed the border and raced through the moonlit forest, Leafpool pulled up. “Wait.” 
The medicine cat nodded to Twigbranch and Finleap. “Come with me.” 

Squirrelflight scrambled to a halt, alarm sending a shiver up her spine. “Where are you going?” 
She needed Leafpool with her. What if Sparkpelt hadn’t made it through the night? 

Leafpool met her gaze. “We won't be long. We need to gather dandelion roots. We'll bring them 
back to camp as soon as we can. You and Ivypool go ahead so you can be with Sparkpelt and 
Thriftpaw.” 

“Don’t take too long.” Squirrelflight glanced toward the camp. 

“We’ll be quick,” Leafpool promised, and headed away into the shadows. 

As Twigbranch and Finleap hurried after her, Squirrelflight glanced at Ivypool. The silver tabby’s 
eyes were dark with worry. “Come on.” 

Squirrelflight charged onward through the forest. Dawn must be close, but clouds obscured the 
moon, throwing darkness over the forest, so deep she could barely see her whiskers. She skimmed 
blindly over the swath of blueberries and raced down the slope toward the hollow, scrambling to a 
halt outside the thorn tunnel. She paused as Ivypool caught up to her, and took a breath. Please, 
StarClan, let Sparkpelt be alive. 

She hurried through the entrance, her heart lurching as she padded into a silent camp. It was quiet. 
Had she expected to find a body laid out in the clearing while her Clanmates sat vigil? She crossed 
the camp, Ivypool at her heels. “Wait here,” she told the silver tabby as she reached the medicine den. 
With four sick cats, it must already be crowded. “P11 send Alderheart outside to talk to you.” Ivypool 
nodded, staring with hollow eyes as Squirrelflight nosed her way through the trailing brambles. 

The hot, stuffy air surrounded her as she blinked in the darkness. She could make out the shape of 
Jayfeather, crouching beside Larksong. Alderheart rested his paws on the edge of Sparkpelt’s nest. 
They turned as Squirrelflight crossed the den. 

Jayfeather sat up. “Are the Sisters sick?" 

“No.” Squirrelflight halted. “But they know what's caused the sickness. A new plant on our land. 
They saw it while they were here. It's called meadow saffron. Prey that eats it becomes poisonous." 
She leaned over Sparkpelt's nest. The orange tabby was unconscious. She fought back panic. Why 
was Sparkpelt so still? *How's she doing?" 

“Т gave her poppy seeds to make her sleep," Alderheart told her. “She was fretting over 
Larksong." 

Squirrelflight glanced into the nest beside Sparkpelt's. Through the darkness, she could see 
Larksong's matted pelt, his bones jutting out as though he'd grown suddenly old. “Is he any better?" 


“No.” Alderheart’s eyes glittered with worry. 

Jayfeather flicked his tail impatiently. “Do the Sisters know a cure?” 

“Dandelion root will clean the poison out,” Squirrelflight told him. “But it must be given 
quickly.” She glanced at Larksong’s nest. “Leafpool’s gathering some now. She'll be here soon.” 

Her heart leaped with hope as the brambles rustled at the entrance, but 1t was only Bramblestar. 

“I saw you were back,” he meowed, hurrying across the den. 

Jayfeather stared at him blindly in the darkness. “The Sisters aren't sick, but they know what's 
caused this and how to treat 1t.” 

Bramblestar’s pelt prickled with surprise. “Will they be okay?” He glanced at Larksong and 
Sparkpelt’s nests. 

Squirrelflight's heart twisted with fear. “We don't know 1f we found out in time.” She glanced at 
the other nests beside the den wall. Thriftpaw and Berrynose were sound asleep, their muzzles tucked 
beneath their paws. “Are they sick?” 

“Not yet,” Alderheart told her. 

“Ivypool is waiting outside,” Squirrelflight told him. “She needs to know that Thriftpaw”s still 
okay.” 

As she spoke, Leafpool crashed through the trailing brambles and dropped a bundle of dandelion 
root from her jaws. “We didn't stop to gather much, but it should do for now.” Her pelt was ruffled 
from running, and her tail was fluffed out. 

Ivypool slid in after her, scanning the medicine den. 

Alderheart hurried to meet her. “She”s fine,” he told the silver tabby, guiding her outside. Dawn 
light showed between the brambles as they pushed through. ““There”s no sign of sickness. We just want 
to keep an eye on her for a day or two." 

Jayfeather scooped up a dandelion in his jaws and snapped off the thickest part. He began to chew 
it into a pulp. 

Leafpool looked into Larksong's nest. “We should treat Larksong first." She frowned. “If we can 
get him to swallow it.” 

“What about Sparkpelt?" Bramblestar's eyes rounded. 

“We’ll treat her afterward," Leafpool told him. 

Squirrelflight caught her sister's eye. “How are the kits doing?" 

Leafpool leaned over the edge of the nest and pressed her ear against Sparkpelt's flank. ““They’re 
quiet now," she told Squirrelflight, straightening. “But I can still feel movement.” 

Squirrelflight glanced at Bramblestar, her heart pressing in her throat. Would the Sisters' treatment 
save Sparkpelt and the kits? 

Jayfeather spat dandelion pulp onto his paw. “Hold his head," he ordered Leafpool. 

As Leafpool lifted Larksong's head with a paw, Alderheart nosed his way back into the den and 
hurried to join them. Squirrelflight moved closer to Bramblestar, craving the warmth of his pelt 
against hers. Jayfeather held his paw in front of the black tom’s muzzle. “If you open his mouth,” he 
told Leafpool, “I can smear it on his tongue. That should—" 

He stopped as Larksong jerked in his nest. The black tom's legs stiffened and his body twitched. 
A convulsion took hold of him; his back arched. He began to thrash wildly, as though a fox had seized 
his spine and was shaking him. Leafpool pressed her paws around his head. Alderheart leaped into 
the nest and pinned Larksong's shoulders into the bracken, holding him down as spasms contorted his 
body. 

Squirrelflight's heart lurched. She pressed harder against Bramblestar. 


“Larksong?” Sparkpelt’s alarmed mew sounded behind her. Sparkpelt was struggling blearily to 
her paws, her terrified gaze fixed on Larksong. “What's happening to him?" 

“It's a fit,” Jayfeather told her. “ТЇЇ stop in a moment.” 

“Tell kill him!” Sparkpelt wailed. 

Squirrelflight's paws seemed frozen to the earth. Was this going to happen to Sparkpelt next? On 
the far side of the den, Thriftpaw and Berrynose lifted their heads. Their eyes rounded in horror as 
they took in Larksong. Nervously, Thriftpaw climbed into Berrynose’s nest and huddled beside the 
pale warrior. Squirrelflight glanced at them, then turned her helpless gaze back on Larksong. The 
spasms were easing. The convulsions seemed to loosen with each jerk until he lay as limp as fresh 
prey, his head hanging over the edge of his nest. 

Alderheart hopped out. He was trembling. 

“Will he live?” Bramblestar's mew was husky with fear. 

Leafpool and Jayfeather exchanged glances. 

Bracken crunched as Sparkpelt tried to haul herself from her nest. “Larksong.” The name came as 
a sob. 

Squirrelflight nudged her back. “Rest,” she pleaded. "There's nothing you can do to help him.” 

“I can comfort him!” Sparkpelt grunted with effort as she pushed her mother away and padded 
shakily to Larksong's nest. She rested her head beside his cheek. “Larksong,” she breathed, her gaze 
clouded with grief. 

Squirrelflight's heart seemed to crack. She blinked at Jayfeather. “Are you going to give him the 
dandelion root?" The pulp was still smeared on his paw. 

He reached for a leaf and wiped it off. “It’s too late. He won't be able to swallow this." His blind 
blue gaze reached for Squirrelflight. *There's nothing more we can do for him." 

“You have to save him," Sparkpelt breathed weakly. 

Jayfeather pushed the leaf toward her muzzle. “Swallow this." He pointed his muzzle toward the 
pulp. 

She didn't seem to hear him. 

Squirrelflight bent closer to her. *Eat the dandelion root," she whispered. *It will help you and 
the kits." 

Sparkpelt's gaze was fixed on Larksong. 

"Please." Squirrelflight lifted the leaf and placed it beside Sparkpelt's muzzle. She glanced 
desperately at Bramblestar. “Tell her she has to," she pleaded. 

Bramblestar leaned forward. “Sparkpelt,” he mewed softly. 

She lifted her gaze to him, then froze. Pain sparked in her gaze. 

As Squirrelflight saw her flanks spasm, her heart seemed to stop. Was she having a fit like 
Larksong? 

Sparkpelt gasped. “My belly." She jerked from Larksong's nest and sat back on her haunches as 
another spasm made her gasp. 

Leafpool pricked her ears. “The kits are coming!” 

Squirrelflight's pelt spiked. Not now! They couldn't come now, not here. They were too early, 
and Sparkpelt was sick. “Is she strong enough?" She blinked at Leafpool. 

“She’ll have to be." Leafpool jerked her muzzle toward Alderheart. “Take Thriftpaw and 
Berrynose to the nursery," she ordered. “Now that we know the sickness doesn't spread, they don't 
have to be confined here. Stay with them." 

Alderheart's eyes widened. *Don't you need me here?" 


“I have Jayfeather. And some cat needs to keep an eye on them,” Leafpool told him. “These 
symptoms come on fast.” 

Alderheart hurried away, bustling Thriftpaw and Berrynose, wide-eyed, from the den. 

Sparkpelt crouched on the den floor, her breath coming fast as another spasm pulsed through her. 
Jayfeather eased her onto her side and began to lap her pelt with long, soothing licks. Leafpool 
crouched at her tail. “The first kit’s coming.” 

Squirrelflight watched as a small, wet sack plopped onto the ground. The sack tore as 1t landed, 
and a tiny tortoiseshell kit, timer than Squirrelflight had ever seen, struggled from the membrane. 
Leafpool grabbed its scruff and scooped it toward Squirrelflight. “Clean it and keep it warm.” 

Pelt prickling with surprise, Squirrelflight picked up the kit by its scruff. She sat down and placed 
it on the ground against her belly. Leaning down, she licked the remains of ће membrane from its pelt 
and then washed it softly with her tongue. “It’s a she-cat,” she breathed, relieved to feel it squirming 
against her. Her heart swelled as kit scent filled her nose. 

Bramblestar leaned closer, a purr throbbing in his throat. "She's beautiful,” he murmured, 
touching his nose to the kit's head. 

“She has a brother." Leafpool jerked another kit toward them. 

Squirrelflight took him and cleaned him and pressed the little black tom next to his littermate. 
Sparkpelt groaned as another convulsion shook her. 

"You're doing well," Leafpool told her. 

Sparkpelt stretched her head back and gazed desperately at Larksong. In the pale dawn light 
Squirrelflight saw that the black tom's eyes were open, half focused on Sparkpelt. Did he realize 
what was happening? 

Squirrelflight got to her paws. She lifted the tom-kit and swung him toward Bramblestar. “Keep 
this one warm." She placed him between his paws, then picked up the she-kit by the scruff. Carrying 
her gently, she took her to Larksong's nest. She placed her at the edge of the nest, beside his muzzle. 

Sparkpelt grunted, her body convulsing again. 

“This is the last one." Leafpool moved back as a tiny black-and-orange tom-kit slithered onto the 
floor. She pressed a paw onto Sparkpelt’s flank. “Rest now," she meowed. “We’ll take care of the 
kits." 

Sparkpelt didn't respond. She was staring at Larksong as the she-kit mewled beside his muzzle. 
His clouded gaze seemed to sharpen. He moved his head, touching his nose to the kit's flank. 

Squirrelflight held her breath as Larksong blinked slowly, his eyes widening with joy. The kit 
wriggled and rubbed her head against his muzzle. Larksong gave a short, rasping purr. His gaze 
flicked toward Sparkpelt, glistening with affection. Then it grew dull, like twilight fading into night. 

Shock pulsed through Squirrelflight. He's dead. Larksong's eyes stared blankly at Sparkpelt, but 
she knew he couldn't see her anymore. 

“Larksong?” Sparkpelt stared back at him, panic edging her mew. 

Jayfeather hurried to Larksong's nest and pressed his ear to the tom's chest. Squirrelflight quickly 
snatched the kit away and carried her back to Bramblestar, where she tucked her beside her 
littermate. 

“Larksong!” Sparkpelt was struggling to her paws. She staggered toward Larksong, collapsed as 
she reached him, and laid her head beside his on the edge of the nest. 

Squirrelflight blinked in panic at Leafpool. Would this be too much for Sparkpelt? But Leafpool 
was staring at the last kit. He lay lifeless on the ground. Blood roared in Squirrelflight's ears as grief 
threatened to overwhelm her. Beside her, Bramblestar sheltered the first two kits between his paws. 


Dread glittered in his gaze. He stared at Sparkpelt, hardly moving. 

Squirrelflight struggled to breathe. She felt as though she were drowning. Closing her eyes, she 
fought the grief. Sparkpelt mustn’t know that one of her kits had died. She’d been through too much 
already, and she was still sick. Steadying her breath, Squirrelflight nudged Bramblestar with her nose. 
It seemed to shake him from his horror. He blinked at her questioningly. 

“We must take the kits to Sorrelstripe,” she told him. 

“She's got her own kits." Bramblestar blinked at her. 

“Then she'll have milk," Squirrelflight told him. “She can feed these with her own until Sparkpelt 
can nurse them. Daisy will be there to help look after them." She glanced at her daughter, her heart 
twisting as she saw raw grief in Sparkpelt's eyes. She wanted to comfort her, but she knew Sparkpelt 
was lost in misery. / can t help Sparkpelt yet, but I can take care of her kits. Squirrelflight shook out 
her pelt and scooped up the she-kit. “Bring the black kit,” she told Bramblestar. 

He glanced toward the third kit, his black-and-orange pelt dull in the half-light. “What about that 
one?" His mew was soft and Squirrelflight guessed that he, too, didn't want Sparkpelt to hear. 

Squirrelflight gently laid the wriggling she-kit on the floor, then lifted the orange-and-black tom- 
kit, carrying him outside the den. She laid him in a bed of leaves, then returned to Bramblestar and 
picked up the she-kit again. 

“Where did you take him?" Bramblestar asked as he scooped up the black tom-kit. 

Squirrelflight put down the she-kit and gestured to the leaves as they left the den. “We can plan a 
vigil for Larksong and his kit when these kits are safe," she said. “In the meantime, I don't want 
Sparkpelt to see." 

She picked up the she-kit again and blinked at him. He seemed to understand, grief sparking in his 
gaze. As she headed for the trailing brambles, he followed her. Squirrelflight bent her head low to 
protect the kit from the prickles. They were going to get through this. No matter how much grief 
Sparkpelt was going to suffer, Squirrelflight was determined not to let her daughter down. 





CHAPTER 18 


% 


As the sun slid behind the trees, Squirrelflight ducked into camp. Patrolling the borders with 
Leafshade, Honeyfur, and Fernsong hadn’t eased her grief. The forest usually soothed her, but the 
sadness, which gripped her heart like fox teeth, hadn’t eased. It tightened as she saw Larksong’s body 
laid in the clearing, ready for the vigil. His tiny orange-and-black kit lay at his side. 

As she paused, gazing at them in the twilight, Fernsong stopped beside her. 

“Will Sparkpelt be well enough to sit vigil?" the yellow tabby meowed. 

“T don’t know.” Squirrelflight eyed the medicine den nervously. Leafpool had given Sparkpelt the 
dandelion root after she’d finished kitting. Had it washed out the poison yet? 

Honeyfur gazed at her dead littermate. “I'll sit vigil.” 

“So will I.” Leafshade paused at her sister’s side. The tortoiseshell glanced at the stars, which 
were beginning to show in the darkening sky. “Larksong is with Snowbush now.” 

Honeyfur met her gaze. "They'll be watching over us.” 

Squirrelflight left them beside Larksong and headed toward the medicine den. 

As she nosed her way through the brambles, Leafpool got to her paws. 

“The dandelion's working," Leafpool mewed. For the first time in days the tabby's gaze was lit 
with hope. “I gave some to Berrynose and Thriftpaw just to be on the safe side, but I don't think they 
were ever sick. I’ve sent them back to their dens.” 

Squirrelflight was hardly listening. Her heart quickened as she hurried to Sparkpelt’s nest. 
Sparkpelt was curled like a dormouse at the bottom. 

Leafpool followed. “Her heart is beating strongly now and her breath is steady.” 

“Then why is she still sleeping?” Worry nagged at Squirrelflight’s belly. 

“She’s been sick, and she kitted this morning. She’s exhausted. Sleep is the best remedy now.” 
Leafpool pressed close to Squirrelflight. “She’s going to be okay.” 

Squirrelflight blinked at her sister. “Did you tell her about the kit that died?” 

“Yes.” Leafpool’s gaze glistened. 

“How did she react?” 

“I don’t think she took it in.” Distress glittered for a moment in Leafpool’s eyes. 

“Has she seen the other two yet?” 

“Not yet.” 

“Has she asked after them?" Squirrelflight’s pelt prickled nervously. What if Sparkpelt could only 
associate the kits with Larksong’s death? She might never learn to love them properly. 

“She’s only woken once,” Leafpool told her. 

“And she didn’t mention them?” 

Leafpool’s eyes rounded sympathetically. She's been sick.” 

“Kits should be with their mother.” Squirrelflight’s thoughts whirled. Daisy would comfort them 
and Sorrelstripe would feed them, but the kits should have Sparkpelt’s love. 

“They are safe,” Leafpool told her. “That’s most important now. It's best they don't have 
Sparkpelt's milk until the poison is out of her system.” 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws. “What if she doesn't bond with them?" 

“She will.” Leafpool held her gaze steadily. “It takes more than loss and separation to stop a 


mother from loving her kits. I know that more than any cat.” 

Squirrelflight’s throat tightened. Leafpool had been through so much and hadn’t let it change her. 
Perhaps Sparkpelt would be okay. “I’m going to see the kits," she meowed. 

Leafpool dipped her head. “Come back when you're done,” she told Squirrelflight. “Sparkpelt 
will probably wake up soon.” 

Squirrelflight glanced at her daughter, still tucked up tight, and headed for the den entrance. 
Outside, night had settled over the camp. Her Clanmates moved quietly around the clearing as 
starlight dappled Larksong’s pelt. His kit sheltered in his shadow. Someone had gathered soft moss 
and tucked 1t around them, as though hoping to keep them warm. Eyes pricking, Squirrelflight padded 
softly to the nursery. 

Sorrelstripe was asleep in her nest, her own kits curled at her belly. Where were Sparkpelt’s kits? 
As Squirrelflight blinked through the darkness, Daisy lifted her head. The queen was curled on a bed 
of bracken, her paws resting protectively around two tiny squirming bundles. “How”s Sparkpelt?” 

"She's recovering," Squirrelflight told her. 

“Good.” Daisy purred. “I expect these two will want to see their real mother soon." She nuzzled 
the kits fondly. “Sorrelstripe”s been suckling them along with her own. It's exhausting for her, so Гуе 
been keeping them with me when they're not feeding." She unfolded her paws. The kits mewled 
indignantly as she revealed them to the chilly night air. Squirrelflight hurried across the den and 
nuzzled them. They reached instinctively for her. The smell of them filled her heart, and as they 
fidgeted blindly, pawing at her nose, she knew with a jolt that she wasn't expecting a litter of her own 
after all. It had never been more than desperate hope, and tiredness caused by worry. She'd been 
foolish to believe she was carrying Bramblestar's kits. Squirrelflight nuzzled the kits harder, purring, 
as longing hollowed her belly. If Sparkpelt didn't want these kits, she would take care of them as if 
they were her own. 

Tiny claws scraped her cheek as the tortoiseshell she-kit rolled away and began pummeling 
Daisy's belly. The black tom-kit wriggled after his sister, pressing his face into Daisy's soft belly fur. 

Daisy curled her paws around them once more. “They need names." She hugged them gently. 

Meadowkit. Gladekit. Bluekit. Names flashed in her mind, names she'd planned when she'd been 
dreaming of new kits of her own. She pushed them away and blinked at Daisy. “Sparkpelt should 
name them." 

Daisy reached toward the moss piled in a soggy heap at the side of the bracken. She hooked a 
piece and offered it to the kits. Mewling, they lapped at it and began to suckle, each tugging at a 
corner. *This keeps them quiet while Sorrelstripe rests." 

Squirrelflight was impressed by how quickly they'd adapted to such strange nursing. "They're 
going to be great warriors, just like Sparkpelt and Larksong." 

“Of course." Daisy's eyes shone in the half-light. 

“PII see if Sparkpelt is ready to come and see them." Squirrelflight headed for the den entrance. 
She slid out and saw her Clanmates gathering around Larksong and the kit. Graystripe and Millie 
stood in the shadow of the elders' den. Thriftpaw, Bristlepaw, and Flippaw sat between Ivypool and 
Fernsong while their Clanmates ringed the clearing. 

Bramblestar was heading toward the nursery. “I was just coming to fetch you.” 

“What about Sparkpelt?" Squirrelflight scanned her Clanmates. 

"She's here." Bramblestar nodded toward a shadowy figure padding across the clearing. 

Sparkpelt's green eyes glittered in the darkness as she reached Larksong's body. She lowered her 
head and pressed her muzzle against his lifeless cheek. Then she sat beside him and lifted her chin, as 


though bracing herself for a long night. An owl hooted above the camp. 

Squirrelflight moved closer to Bramblestar. “Is she fit enough to sit vigil?" 

“If she weren't, Leafpool wouldn't have let her come," Bramblestar whispered. 

“What about the kits?" Squirrelflight glanced at the nursery. “She’s hardly seen them.” 

“Let her mourn Larksong first." Bramblestar's eyes glistened as he gazed at his daughter. “She has 
moons to spend with her kits.” 

Lilyheart padded from between Honeyfur and Leafshade. She touched her nose to Larksong's 
shoulder. “Snowbush won't be lonely anymore." The small tabby lifted her head, her eyes clouded 
with grief. Honeyfur and Leafshade huddled beside her. Sparkpelt glanced at them, as though 
acknowledging their grief, then looked away. 

Twigbranch padded from the shadows at the edge of the clearing. She stopped beside Lilyheart. 
"Larksong was lucky to have a mother like you," she mewed. *As a kit, I lost my own mother. I 
moved from one camp to another, lost and gained a sister and a father. Throughout it all, you were 
there for me, and Larksong was like a littermate." She dropped her gaze shyly. “I will miss him like a 
brother." 

Lilyheart blinked gratefully at the young warrior as Twigbranch took her place beside Honeyfur 
and Leafshade. 

Finleap hurried forward. “Larksong was a great mentor." He glanced around at his Clanmates. 
“Tt’s not fair he died of sickness and not in battle. But I promise to become the best warrior I can be in 
honor of his memory." He backed away, pelt prickling self-consciously, and took his place again 
beside Plumstone and Eaglewing. 

Bramblestar padded forward, stopping in a pool of moonlight. “ThunderClan has lost two brave 
warriors, for I know Larksong's kit would have followed in his father's paw steps. Larksong was 
always kind to his Clanmates and loyal to his Clan. May StarClan welcome him with open hearts. He 
can never be a father to his kits here, but his memory will live on in them and in the hearts of the cats 
he's left behind." Squirrelflight's heart flooded with grief as Bramblestar blinked affectionately at 
Sparkpelt. “We will miss him and the kit we never had the chance to know." 


Squirrelflight fluffed her fur out against the wind. There was a chill in the air, and the heavy dew 
brought by the dawn hadn't yet lifted. She sat near the fresh-kill pile, eyeing the medicine den 
anxiously. Sparkpelt had returned there to sleep after her long night's vigil beside Larksong's body. 
She still hadn't been to the nursery to see her kits. As Squirrelflight wondered whether to wake her, 
the thorn tunnel shivered and Berrynose padded into camp. Plumstone, Mousewhisker, and Lionblaze 
trailed after him. 

The patrol was clearly in the middle of a heated conversation. Mousewhisker stopped at the edge 
of the clearing, his gaze dark. “Pm just saying that all this trouble started when the Sisters showed 


up." 

“It's a coincidence." Lionblaze sat down and began to wash the mud from his paws. 

“It’s no coincidence that they're taking up land meant for SkyClan,” Plumstone pointed out. 

“And it's strange that a poisonous plant we've never heard of shows up in the forest at the same 
time as the Sisters." Berrynose lay down outside the warriors' den. 

Squirrelflight glared at him. “The Sisters didn't cause the sickness. They're the ones who told us 
what it was, and how to cure it." 

“They didn't tell us what this meadow saffron looks like. There are plenty of different plants with 
purple flowers," Berrynose answered. *How are we meant to find it and dig it up 1f we don't know 


what it looks like?” 

“I didn't give them the chance to tell us.” Squirrelflight felt like she was always defending the 
Sisters. “I wanted to get back so Leafpool could treat Larksong and Sparkpelt.” She looked up at the 
Highledge, where Bramblestar was pulling apart a thrush. Tell them to stop. This isn't the Sisters’ 
fault. Didn’t they realize that the Sisters had probably saved Sparkpelt’s life? 

Bramblestar stopped eating when she caught his eye. He got to his paws and slithered down the 
rock tumble. Squirrelflight felt a prick of guilt. She shouldn't draw him into this. He looked tired. 
He'd sat vigil with Sparkpelt all night and been the first to help dig the hole where Larksong and his 
kit would be buried. He swiped his tongue around his mouth, wiping it clean. “It would be helpful to 
know what plants we need to dig up." 

“I could visit them again and find out,” Squirrelflight offered. 

Berrynose grunted. “What you need to find out is when they're leaving.” 

“Why?” Squirrelflight flicked her tail irritably. “SkyClan hasn't even decided whether to move 
yet." 

Mousewhisker sat down. “Perhaps Leafstar doesn't want to make a decision that might mean the 
Sisters have to move. She might be as fond of them as you are." He gazed accusingly at Squirrelflight. 

“Tm not fond of them," she shot back. “I just happen to respect their way of life.” 

Bramblestar shifted his paws. “You used to respect our way of life," he grunted. 

She looked at him, surprised. She'd thought they'd settled their differences. Was he still angry 
with her? “I still do!” 

“Then why do you keep talking about the Sisters?" Bramblestar held her gaze. 

“Mousewhisker and Berrynose started it!” Squirrelflight defended herself. 

Berrynose sat up. “I just think it will be better when they're gone. As long as they're living on our 
border, Tigerstar will be bristling for a fight, Leafstar will be dithering over whether SkyClan should 
move, and you two will be bickering." His gaze flashed toward Bramblestar. 

The ThunderClan leader's ears twitched. “Maybe it's a good idea to pay them a visit. They can 
tell us when they're planning to leave and what meadow saffron looks like. I want to organize a patrol 
to destroy any of those plants on our land." 

“ГИ go,” Squirrelflight offered again. She didn't trust her Clanmates to treat the Sisters with the 
respect they deserved. 

“Blossomfall and Cherryfall can go with you," Bramblestar meowed. 

“I don't need a patrol," Squirrelflight objected. 

“You'll be a long way from home," Bramblestar pointed out. 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws. She wasn't going to let Berrynose accuse them of bickering again. 
“Okay,” she agreed. “But I want to go now." 

“Take Leafpool with you, too," Bramblestar ordered. “A medicine cat should learn all they can 
about this new plant." 

Squirrelflight's heart lifted. It would be good to have Leafpool at her side. She headed toward the 
medicine den. “ТП see if she's ready.” 

“PII let Blossomfall and Cherryfall know,” Bramblestar told her. 

Squirrelflight nosed her way into the medicine den. Sparkpelt was alone with Leafpool. The 
orange tabby sat in her nest, staring blankly at the den wall. “How are you?” Squirrelflight crossed 
the den and touched her nose gently to her daughter’s head. 

Sparkpelt ducked away distractedly, as if Squirrelflight had interrupted a thought. 

“This grief will pass,” Squirrelflight told her. 


Sparkpelt lifted her empty gaze to meet her mother’s. “I don’t want it to pass.” Her mew was 
hollow. 

“But what about your kits?” Squirrelflight blinked at her, worry pricking through her fur. “You 
haven't even named them yet.” 

“I can't think about names.” Sparkpelt turned her gaze back to the wall. “It hurts too much.” 

Squirrelflight glanced anxiously at Leafpool. Her sister blinked back encouragingly, and 
Squirrelflight tried again to connect with her daughter. “Sorrelstripe is exhausted,” she told Sparkpelt. 
“For her sake, you need to feed your kits. Besides, you're their mother. They need you.” 

“Do they?” Sparkpelt looked puzzled. 

“Of course they do!” 

“Т guess Га better feed them.” Sparkpelt heaved herself to her paws. “Where are they?” 

“In the nursery, of course.” Squirrelflight swallowed back frustration. Sparkpelt was so caught up 
in misery, she barely seemed to know where she was. “Do you want me to come with you?” 

“Why?” Sparkpelt stared at her. “You can’t feed them.” 

Leafpool padded forward and nudged Sparkpelt toward the den entrance. “Go and feed them,” she 
mewed matter-of-factly. “You can come back here afterward. Daisy can keep them warm.” 

Squirrelflight’s heart ached as she watched Sparkpelt pad limply from the den. “Doesn't she 
care?” She turned her gaze on Leafpool. 

“She's numb with grief,” Leafpool told her. “It will pass. Feeding the kits might help." 

“Might?” Squirrelflight stiffened. 

“Larksong only just died," Leafpool reminded her gently. “Give Sparkpelt time.” 

Squirrelflight closed her eyes. / must be patient. She blinked them open and flicked her tail. “Can 
you come with me to visit the Sisters?" 

“Of course." Leafpool tipped her head to one side. “Why?” 

“Bramblestar wants to know what meadow saffron looks like, and I want to see if Moonlight's 
had her kits yet. She looked close to kitting last time we saw her." 

"Are you wondering when they're going to move on?" 

“It would be better if they could leave soon," Squirrelflight confessed. “Mousewhisker and 
Berrynose think the Sisters are responsible for the sickness and unrest. l'm worried that if all the 
Clans turn against them, they might be in danger." 

Leafpool nodded. “Соте on." She headed for the den entrance. “Let's go." 


“Squirrelflight!” Tempest met the patrol at the top of the valley, lifting her tail as she caught sight 
of them. She hurried along the ridge to meet them. “How are your sick Clanmates?” 

Squirrelflight dipped her head. “Larksong died." 

Tempest's eyes widened. "Didn't the dandelion root work?" 

"There wasn't time to give him any. He was too sick." Squirrelflight glanced over her shoulder at 
Blossomfall, Cherryfall, and Leafpool. Their fur was ruffled from the journey. A brisk, chilly wind 
was whisking over the valley. 

“Tm sorry to hear that.” Tempest blinked sympathetically at Squirrelflight. She began to head 
down toward the camp. “Come on. It's cold here." 

“We managed to save another cat, though." Squirrelflight followed her along the winding trail, 
Leafpool, Cherryfall, and Blossomfall at her heels. “Actually, it was my daughter." 

“Tm glad to hear it." Tempest pushed through the ferns at the camp entrance, the fronds brushing 
her long fur flat. 


Squirrelflight followed her through. “How’s Moonlight?” 

“She’s well.” Tempest stopped on the grassy clearing. 

Furze poked her head from а den. “Why did you come?” 

“I need to know what meadow saffron looks like," Squirrelflight told the ginger cat. “Too many 
plants have purple flowers.” 

Moonlight's den rustled. “It’s a tall purple flower." The gray she-cat squeezed out. She padded 
heavily across the grass, her belly so wide that she looked like a badger. Squirrelflight saw Leafpool 
frown. Was something wrong? She stiffened as Moonlight went on. “It’s easy to spot. The leaves die 
back before the flower opens. It's quite strange, poking up from the forest floor without leaves. Like 
an owl without feathers.” 

Flurry padded from behind the dogwood, followed by Snow, sliding from between the bushes. 
They blinked at the ThunderClan patrol. 

Snow narrowed her eyes. “You're back soon.” 

Blossomfall’s pelt prickled. “We need to know when you plan to leave.” 

“Once the kits are ready.” Moonlight looked at her belly. “They will come soon. We'll leave once 
they’ve opened their eyes.” 

Leafpool narrowed her eyes. “You’ve been expecting kits for a long time.” 

Moonlight looked back at her wearily. “It feels like moons since I first felt them move.” 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws. “Sparkpelt found out she was expecting kits soon after we met 
you. She's had them now." Surely you should have had yours. But Sparkpelt's kits had come early. 

Moonlight purred. “Congratulations. Are they well?” 

Squirrelflight dropped her gaze. “The youngest died. A tom.” 

Moonlight's gaze darkened. “I’m sorry to hear that. Such a loss is never easy.” She glanced at 
Snow. “We could perform a small ceremony for him.” 

Blossomfall bristled. ““We’ve sat vigil," she mewed sharply. “That’s ceremony enough.” 

Leafpool’s ears pricked. “Га be interested to see the Sisters’ ceremony.” 

Blossomfall huffed. *Don't expect me to join in." 

“We expect nothing of you but to witness it," Moonlight told her. “A spirit so young needs guiding. 
He won't understand what he's lost and who waits for him beyond death. We must help him find a 
place in the hearts of the living and the dead so that he can know both." 

She beckoned Snow, Furze, and Creek nearer with a flick of her tail. Then she nodded to Tempest. 
“Do we have coltsfoot?" 

“ГИ fetch some." Tempest slipped quickly into one of the dens and returned holding a small bunch 
of yellow flowers between her jaws. She carried them across the clearing and dropped them at 
Moonlight's paws. 

As Squirrelflight leaned closer, curiosity prickling in her pelt, Cherryfall pricked her ears 
uneasily. “Will StarClan approve?" 

Leafpool looked at her. “Why shouldn't they? The Sisters are honoring the dead.” She turned her 
gaze back to Moonlight as the gray she-cat began to claw away a small patch of grass. Then she dug a 
small hole and dropped the flowers into it. Covering them up, she glanced at her campmates. They 
formed a circle around the hole, closed their eyes, and lifted their muzzles. 

Squirrelflight held her breath as, silently, the Sisters held their faces to the sky. Then Moonlight 
murmured, “Safe journey, kit." Furze, Tempest, Snow, and Flurry echoed her mew. “Safe journey, 
kit." Together they repeated the words, chanting them softly, then raising their voices until their mews 
became wails and their wails broke into a fierce yowling. Their cry rang around the small valley, 


splitting the air. 

Squirrelflight stared, her heart pounding. What in StarClan are they doing? 

Blossomfall moved closer to Cherryfall. “What a lot of nonsense,” she growled. 

“Hush!” Leafpool flicked her tail impatiently at the tortoiseshell warrior. Her gaze was fixed on 
the Sisters as they fell suddenly silent. They stood unmoving for a few moments, then broke sharply 
from their circle, as though waking from a dream. 

Squirrelflight searched Moonlight's gaze. The Sisters had claimed to see the dead. Had they seen 
Sparkpelt's kit? 

Moonlight blinked softly. “We have encouraged your daughter's kit to walk with ThunderClan, 
both the living and the dead. His spirit can be nurtured and loved there." 

“You saw him?" 

Tempest nodded. “He had orange-and-black fur.” 

Squirrelflight felt a chill ripple through her pelt. She hadn't described the dead kit. Moonlight 
really must have seen him. 

Snow frowned, looking puzzled. “A black tom was with him." She blinked at Squirrelflight. “Do 
you know who that was?" 

“Larksong.” Blossomfall shifted uneasily beside Squirrelflight. 

“The kit’s father," Squirrelflight told Moonlight. “He died at the same time." 

Moonlight nodded. “I thought they were kin. He seemed very protective of the young spirit in his 
care." 

Leafpool’s pelt prickled. “Why did you уох]? Is it part of the ceremony?" 

“It wards off dark spirits that might wish to harm the dead," Moonlight told her. “It’s our warning 
that those we remember are protected for as long as we remember them." 

“Thank you." Squirrelflight dipped her head gratefully to the Sisters. As she did, she made a silent 
promise to Larksong. We will remember you both. How strange the Sisters ceremony had seemed, but 
was it so different from a vigil? These cats honored the dead by remembering them, just as the Clans 
did. Was it possible that, in their own way, the Sisters had a link with StarClan? 





CHAPTER 19 


Se 


Squirrelflight sat back on her haunches and watched as Leafpool dropped into a hunting crouch. A 
sparrow was rummaging through fallen leaves a few tail-lengths ahead, sunshine dappling its feathers. 
Leafpool’s tail flicked excitedly. 

Quick! Squirrelflight held her tongue. Would her sister know not to wait too long? She was a 
medicine cat, not a warrior. One breath of wind and the sparrow might take fright and flutter into the 
branches overhead. 

Squirrelflight was still surprised that Leafpool had asked to join the hunting patrol. “I need to 
stretch my legs,” Leafpool had told her, hurrying after them as Squirrelflight had headed out of camp 
with Twigbranch, Finleap, and Honeyfur. “I’ve been crouching in the medicine den sorting herbs for 
too long." 

“T would think you'd rather go gathering herbs." Squirrelflight blinked at her. 

Leafpool had flicked her tail. “I want warm fresh-kill,” she insisted. “It’s always cold by the time 
it reaches the pile." 

Finleap whisked his tail happily. “We’ll catch more prey with another pair of paws.” 

“I didn't know medicine cats hunted,” Twigbranch mewed. 

“Of course we hunt," Leafpool had snorted. “When we get time." She slid past the patrol and 
headed out of camp. 

Twigbranch, Finleap, and Honeyfur had stopped nearby to investigate a mouse nest dug deep into 
the roots of an oak while Leafpool had led Squirrelflight to this dip in the forest floor. It was shady 
and alive with bugs. *Always hunt where prey looks for prey," Leafpool had mewed. 

Squirrelflight had recognized the old hunting rule at once. “That’s what Dustpelt used to tell me." 

“I know." Leafpool purred fondly. “You used to come back to the apprentices’ den after training 
and tell me everything you'd learned." 

Squirrelflight tried to remember. It seemed such a long time ago. “Did you tell me all about 
herbs?" 

“Of course." Leafpool's whiskers twitched. “But you usually fell asleep halfway through.” 

Squirrelflight felt a rush of guilt. “Did I?” 

Leafpool purred again. “It’s okay. I know how hard Dustpelt made you work.” As she spoke, a 
sparrow flitted down from a tree. Leafpool lowered her voice. "I'm just glad you showed me some of 
the skills you learned." 

Quick! Leafpool was still staring at the sparrow, her eyes slitted now. Before it flies away. 
Squirrelflight held her breath as Leafpool finally leaped. She was impressed by her sister's speed as 
Leafpool caught the sparrow before it could flutter up into the branches, then killed it with a bite. 

“Well done!" Squirrelflight got to her paws, her mouth watering at the juicy tang of blood. She 
padded to Leafpool's side and sniffed her sister's catch. 

Leafpool sat back purring. “Should we eat it now?" 

Squirrelflight scanned the clearing, listening for Twigbranch, Finleap, and Honeyfur. “We*d have 
to do it quickly before the others catch up with us." Wind rustled the branches overhead, and birds 
chattered in the sunshine. “Dustpelt would have put me on tick duty for a moon if he'd caught me 
eating prey before it reached the fresh-kill pile." 


“Гт a medicine cat," Leafpool purred. “I don't have to follow every warrior rule. And it's my 
catch." 

Squirrelflight shot her a look. Her sister was tempting her. “Okay,” she purred, feeling suddenly 
as playful as a kit. “But Pm a warrior, so ГЇЇ have to catch something for the Clan before we go 
back." 

"[f that's what it takes." Leafpool tore the sparrow in two and pushed one half toward 
Squirrelflight. 

Squirrelflight hooked it and took a mouthful. She closed her eyes, the warm blood delighting her. 
The flesh was soft and sweet. She swallowed it happily. 

“Have you visited Sparkpelt today?" Leafpool asked. 

Squirrelflight paused, forgetting suddenly the sweetness of the sparrow. “I saw her this morning." 

“Tm glad." Leafpool was chewing. “She needs company. Daisy is with her, and a few other cats 
have visited. Stormcloud stopped by this morning. But she needs to feel part of the Clan as much as 
possible." 

Squirrelflight's belly tightened as she remembered Sparkpelt lying in her nest, staring blankly as 
her kits played with Daisy. “She doesn't seem to be getting better.” 

“ТП take a while for her to get over Larksong's death." Leafpool swiped her tongue around her 
lips. 

“But she's missing out on motherhood,” Squirrelflight fretted. 

"There's no rush." Leafpool took another mouthful. “Flamekit and Finchkit will be kits for a while 
yet. And she's tough." Leafpool crunched through a bone. *Like her mother." 

Squirrelflight picked at the sparrow distractedly. Am I tough? She didn't feel it right now. 

They ate in silence until there was nothing left but feathers; then Leafpool rolled onto her side. 
“Have you talked to Bramblestar yet?" 

Squirrelflight sat up and began to wash. She knew what Leafpool was getting at. If she wanted to 
heal the rift between her and Bramblestar, she'd have to talk to him. “It’s not easy." 

“Why not?" Leafstar stretched. "He's your mate.” 

“What if I ask him about kits and he still doesn't want them as much as I do?" Squirrelflight gazed 
distractedly between the trees. “Or I ask him about the Sisters and he says they have to leave? I know 
he's still angry that I went off and found them in the first place. I'm sure he thinks it’s my fault the 
Clans are fighting." 

Leafpool huffed. “The Clans are always fighting." 

“I guess.” Squirrelflight felt suddenly weary. “But this time Bramblestar blames me." 

"Are you sure?" Leafpool glanced at her. 

Squirrelflight twitched her tail. “Pm not sure of anything right now.” 

“Why don't you ask him?” 

“It might make things worse.” 

Leafpool sat up. “Will they get better if you keep quiet?” 

“Maybe.” Squirrelflight was beginning to think silence was the only way things might get better. 
“We only spend time together when we’re playing with Flamekit and Finchkit.” Pleasure fluttered 
faintly in her chest as she pictured Bramblestar giving them badger rides around the nursery. “I think 
Bramblestar loves them even more than I do.” 

Leafpool eyed her steadily. “Do you still want more kits with him?” 

“Of course I do.” Squirrelflight felt the familiar twinge of longing in her heart. “But I can't see 
that happening now. We barely talk.” 


As she spoke, paw steps thrummed at the top of the rise. Twigbranch, Finleap, and Honeyfur 
charged down the slope carrying prey. They scrambled to a halt and dropped their catch beside 
Squirrelflight. 

“Leafpool caught a sparrow,” she told them proudly. 

Finleap eyed the pile of feathers, his gaze sparking with amusement. “Was it tasty?" 

“Very.” Leafpool purred. She glanced at Squirrelflight. “We should catch another for the Clan.” 

Honeyfur nodded toward the sunny glade ahead. “There”1l be plenty over there.” 

"Let's catch as many as we can," Twigbranch mewed. *The Clan will want a big meal before 
tonight's Gathering." 

As the young warriors hurried away, Squirrelflight got to her paws. “I’m not looking forward to 
this Gathering," she confided to Leafpool. 

“It will be tense," Leafpool agreed. They headed after their Clanmates. “Do you think 
ShadowClan and RiverClan have come to an agreement about their border?" 

“I hope so." Squirrelflight ducked beneath a branch. “Otherwise, Tigerstar might insist on pushing 
the Sisters off their land." 

"Perhaps the Sisters have left by now," Leafpool mewed hopefully. 

“T doubt it." Squirrelflight’s pelt prickled nervously. Moonlight must have kitted by now, but the 
kits wouldn't be ready to travel for a while. 

Ahead, Honeyfur stopped beside an oak and scraped her fur against the rough bark. Squirrelflight 
padded past her and gazed into the sunny glade. Twigbranch and Finleap were already charging 
through the ragged blueberrybushes. What if the Sisters ad moved on? Everything would be solved. 
SkyClan could move onto their land, and the Clans would have no reason to fight. She and 
Bramblestar could forget their differences, and life could go back to how it was. 

Her paws felt suddenly heavy. Nothing was ever that simple. 


Night folded itself around the lake, swathing the valley in darkness. After the long walk from 
camp, Squirrelflight sensed tension as soon as she slid from the long grass. ShadowClan,WindClan, 
and RiverClan hung back at the edges of the island clearing, their gazes glittering with hostility as 
they eyed one another. Scorchfur tugged Flaxpaw back by his scruff as the ShadowClan apprentice 
began to head toward RiverClan. *Not tonight," he growled. 

“I was only going to talk to the other apprentices.” Flaxpaw looked at his mentor hopefully. 

“You might as well talk to foxes," Scorchfur hissed. 

Lightpaw, Pouncepaw, and Shadowpaw stood close to Dovewing while Tigerstar wove around 
them protectively. Only SkyClan seemed relaxed. They watched the other Clans, tipping their heads 
as though puzzled by the unfriendliness. Leafstar hurried to meet Bramblestar as soon as he crossed 
the clearing. 

“What's wrong with every cat?” The SkyClan leader blinked at him. “I didn't realize things had 
gotten worse. Stonewing lashed out at Mallownose before you arrived." She glanced nervously at the 
star-specked sky, where wisps of clouds trailed above the forest. If the truce was broken, clouds 
would hide the moon and the Clans would have to go home, their grievances unresolved. 

Bramblestar glanced around at the gathered cats, his pelt prickling along his spine. “There”s more 
tension over the borders," he told the SkyClan leader. “But that doesn't mean you must make a 
decision before you're ready." 

Leafstar caught Squirrelflight's eye. “Have you heard from Moonlight? Has she had her kits?" 

“She must have," Squirrelflight told her. “But newborn kits won't be ready to travel for a while." 


Bramblestar flicked his tail impatiently. “I wish she’d hurry up before we’re all at war,” he 
growled. He padded toward the Great Oak and leaped onto the lowest branch. 

Leafstar dipped her head. “Pd better go too.” Anxiety glittered in her gaze as she turned away and 
leaped up beside Bramblestar. 

Tigerstar, Harestar, and Mistystar followed, eyeing one another accusingly as they took their 
places in the oak. 

Squirrelflight hesitated as the Clans streamed around her. Crowfeather, Reedwhisker, and 
Cloverfoot jostled for position as they climbed onto the roots of the oak and sat, stiffly ignoring one 
another as Squirrelflight finally joined them. Only Hawkwing acknowledged her with a polite nod. 

As the crowd settled in front of her, pelts shifting in the moonlight, Tigerstar stepped forward. 
“ThunderClan has given WindClan its land back. RiverClan wants to move our border, and 
ShadowClan cannot accept that. The only way to avoid war now is to drive the Sisters from their 
camp.” 

Scorchfur whisked his tail eagerly. “That's right. Why fight one another when they ve got our 
land?” 

Dread wormed beneath Squirrelflight’s pelt as yowls of agreement rose among the Clans. 

“We must wait!” Bramblestar’s growl silenced them. He eyed Tigerstar sharply. “Has StarClan 
sent word yet? Did any medicine cat get an answer from them at their half-moon meeting?” 

“Not yet," Tigerstar snorted. “But silence could mean anything. You're just playing for time. Why 
are you so loyal to these rogues?” 

Bramblestar bristled. “I’m not loyal to them.” 

“Then why are you determined to defend them?” 

Bramblestar narrowed his eyes. “I don’t think we should take the Sisters” land until SkyClan has 
agreed to move there.” 

“SkyClan would be mouse-brained to turn down that land." Tigerstar lashed his tail. “It’s good 
land, and we won't let them stay on our territory forever.” 

“You gave them that territory!” Bramblestar glared at the ShadowClan leader. 

Tigerstar curled his lip. “And we can take it back, just like WindClan took its territory back.” 

“T gave it to them," Bramblestar retorted. “I was trying to keep the peace,” 

Tigerstar rounded his eyes innocently. “That's all I want,” he meowed. “To keep the peace.” 

“By starting a war against the Sisters?” Bramblestar stared at him indignantly. 

Squirrelflight realized she was holding her breath. Bramblestar was defending the Sisters. Hope 
flashed beneath her pelt. 

Tigerstar's tail flicked ominously. “I will fight the Sisters if it means peace among the Clans. Isn't 
that what StarClan wants?” 

Bramblestar held his ground. “You’re trying to force SkyClan to move again! Look what happened 
last time you drove them out. A storm nearly killed us all.” 

“This time SkyClan wants to move!” The ShadowClan leader swung his muzzle toward Leafstar. 
“You want SkyClan to have the new territory, right?” 

Leafstar hesitated. 

“Right?” Tigerstar glared at her. 

“T don’t want the land 1f it means hurting the Sisters,” Leafstar told him, her gaze clouding with 
uncertainty. 

A snarl rang from the back of the clearing as Emberfoot jeered at the SkyClan leader. “You’d 
rather see war in the Clans than chase a few rogues from land they don't even want?" 


Yowls of agreement exploded around him and rippled through the crowd. 

Squirrelflight froze. She pictured the Sisters going about their duties, unaware of the storm 
building here, ready to sweep them away. Her paws pricked with fear. 

Leafstar stared desperately at Tigerstar. “Why can't we wait until the Sisters leave?” 

Harestar flattened his ears. “Why should we?” 

“The Sisters don't need that land!” Mistystar snapped. 

Tigerstar held Leafstar’s gaze. “Is SkyClan willing to move?” 

“Not yet,” Leafstar answered shakily. 

“But would you move once the Sisters are gone?” Tigerstar pressed. 

Leafstar stared at him, then nodded. “Yes.” 

Tigerstar rounded on Bramblestar. “SkyClan has made its decision. They want to move. Now 
ThunderClan must support us. The Sisters have to leave.” 

Squirrelflight’s heart pressed in her throat as Bramblestar hesitated. Why don't you object? She 
lifted her muzzle. “None of us want—" 

“Silence!” Bramblestar cut her off with a look. It glittered with rage. “My deputy does not speak 
for me.” As he dragged his gaze back to Tigerstar, Squirrelflight felt numb. She stared at him. Was 
Bramblestar going to declare war on the Sisters? Five Clans against a small band of she-cats, and 
possibly a squealing litter of newborn kits. Shame washed Squirrelflight's pelt. Was there no honor 
left in the Clans? 

Bramblestar squared his shoulders. “ThunderClan won't join a war,” he growled. 

Tigerstar's gaze flashed. “But you won't stop us?" 

Bramblestar looked away. “No.” Squirrelflight stared at him, unable to believe her ears as he 
went on. “I don't care what happens to the Sisters. They've made it clear that they're no better than 
rogues. But Leafstar must be heard. Her opinion must be respected.” 

“She's been heard.” Harestar flattened his ears. “She wants their land.” 

“Only after they've left." Bramblestar lashed his tail. “And she doesn’t want them hurt." 

Leafstar stepped to the edge of the branch. “Perhaps the Sisters can be reasoned with,” she 
mewed hesitatingly. 

“Why?” Mistystar looked unconvinced. “Reason hasn't worked so far.” 

Leafstar aimed a meaningful glance at Tree. “Perhaps it's time for them to hear from their own 
kin." 

Tree groaned, looking suddenly put on the spot. “I’ve told you, it won't —" 

“I know you think it won't help," Leafstar interrupted. “But if it could prevent a war—if it were 
the difference between life and death for Moonlight and her kits—surely you would consider 1t?" 

“I—” Tree began to speak, then stopped himself. He looked around the Gathering, then began 
again. “I do want peace." 

“Of course you do, Tree," Bramblestar said smoothly. “So do what you can. Talk to your mother 
on our behalf." 

Tree looked down at his paws. He shuffled them uncomfortably, then closed his eyes. “All right. I 
still don't have high hopes, but ГІ try, if you want me to." Tigerstar shrugged. “I guess it's worth an 
attempt." 

Harestar nodded. “Why fight if we don't have to?" 

Murmurs of approval rippled through the crowd as Tigerstar whisked his tail. 

"It's decided,” the ShadowClan leader growled. “Tree will talk to the Sisters.” 

Below him, Breezepelt rolled his eyes. “Why send a loner to do a warrior's job?" 


Hawkwing bristled beside Squirrelflight. “Tree is no loner!” he snarled, eyeing Breezepelt. “He’s 
a loyal Clan cat now.” 

Across the clearing, Violetshine’s gaze glowed with affection at her father, and her Clanmates 
shifted around her, scowling at the WindClan tom. 

“Hawkwing’s right.” Leafstar lifted her chin. “Tree is as much a warrior as any SkyClan cat. And 
if he goes to the Sisters, ГІІ go with him.” 

Tigerstar looked at her surprised. “Why?” 

“I know them.” Leafstar glanced at Squirrelflight. “So does Squirrelflight. We can both go with 
him. We might be able to help.” 

Tigerstar's ears twitched. “If that's what you want.” He eyed Tree menacingly. “You’d better find 
a solution,” he growled. “Or the next patrol we send to the Sisters won't be so friendly.” 

Squirrelflight caught Bramblestar's eye. He looked at her, his gaze unreadable. Was she supposed 
to say she wouldn't go? He'd silenced her just now. He clearly didn't want her to be involved. As 
Tigerstar and the other leaders jumped down from the branch, signaling the end to the meeting, 
Bramblestar didn't move. 

"Are you coming?" Hawkwing hopped off the root and looked back at her as the crowd began to 
disperse. 

“ГИ wait for Bramblestar.” Squirrelflight watched the Clans head for the long grass. She shifted 
her paws nervously as the clearing emptied, then looked up at Bramblestar again. He stared past her, 
then leaped from the tree. Thorns pierced her heart as he shook out his pelt and stalked across the 
clearing without her. She watched him go, feeling desolate. Had they grown so far apart that they'd 
never agree on anything again? 





CHAPTER 20 


Se 


“You go ahead.” Tree swished his tail as they headed out of Clan territory onto the Sisters” land. It 
was the morning after the Gathering, and the sun was glittering through the trees. “I want to practice 
my speech.” He hung back and let Squirrel flight and Leafstar take the lead. 

“He has a speech?” Squirrelflight was surprised that any cat would have to practice to speak with 
his mother. She understood that the relationship between Tree and Moonlight was strained, but it 
surprised her that it was this strained. She blinked at Leafstar as they followed the steep path out of 
the forest. She glanced over her shoulder. Tree was murmuring softly to himself. 

“He and Hawkwing went over what he was going to say to Moonlight before we left.” Leafstar 
slid under a drooping willow branch. 

Squirrelflight ducked under another branch. “I don't know why Tree needed to come, if he doesn't 
want to see his mother again. We could have passed on the Clans’ message without him.” 

“He does have a talent for slicing open a problem so it can be looked at easily. It's why I made 
him our mediator. Besides, I don't think the Clans would let us come without him.” Leafstar gazed 
ahead. “Tigerstar’s already frustrated that we’ve stopped him from taking this land before now. He 
wouldn't want me and you in charge of the negotiation." 

“But it’s not a negotiation, is it?” Frustration clawed at Squirrelflight’s belly. “It’s a threat. If the 
Sisters don’t leave, the Clans will drive them away by force.” 

“I know.” Leafstar flicked her tail as the land flattened beneath her paws. She headed between the 
thinning trees. “But we might be able to give the Sisters enough time to prepare for the journey and to 
leave with a little dignity. And besides, Tree is Moonlight’s son.” 

Squirrel flight nodded. “If she won't listen to us, she might listen to him.” 

“That's what I’m hoping.” Leafstar stopped as they broke from the forest and mountain territory 
opened ahead of them. 

Paw steps brushed the ground behind them as Tree caught up. 

“I think I've got it,” he meowed. “I know exactly what I’m going to say.” 

“Do you think she'll agree?” Squirrelflight glanced at him anxiously. 

“If she were reasonable, she’d agree.” Tree gazed over the rolling landscape. “But we’re talking 
about my mother.” 

Unease wormed beneath Squirrelflight’s pelt. Moonlight had seemed reasonable to her. She could 
be peaceful and kind. But there was also a stubborn streak running through her fur. Persuading her to 
leave the mountain territory might be like asking a badger to leave its set. 

They reached the camp at sunhigh. Sunshine bathed the valley. The bushes crowding the Sisters’ 
camp looked blowsy and tattered. As Squirrelflight led Tree and Leafstar down the winding path to 
the entrance, guilt pricked at her belly. How could she stand by as a queen and her tiny kits were 
forced from their home? She pushed the thought away. Perhaps the kits were strong and healthy, and 
the Sisters were already preparing to leave. 

“Squirrel flight?” Snow’s mew took her by surprise. As the white she-cat slid from the ferns at the 
camp entrance, suspicion glittered in her gaze. ““What are you doing here?” 

“Has Moonlight had her kits?” Squirrelflight asked eagerly. 

Snow narrowed her eyes. “No.” 


Disappointment dropped like a stone in Squirrelflight's belly. It should be past time. “We have to 
speak with her.” 

Stiffening, Snow looked past them to Tree. “Why?” 

Leafstar padded closer. “It’s important.” 

“Moonlight's close to kitting,’ Snow told them, her gaze still on Tree. “She’s moved to the 
birthing den." 

“But we can still see her, right?" Leafstar shifted her paws impatiently. 

Snow bristled. “Do you expect me to let a grown tom into our camp?" She glared at Tree. 

Squirrelflight blinked at her. “But Tree 15 your kin, isn't he?" 

“The Sisters don't believe in kin," Tree snapped. “Not male kin, anyway." 

“Hold your tongue," Leafstar snapped. “You're meant to be our negotiator." 

“Sorry.” Tree met Snow’s gaze stiffly. “Гуе come from the Clans. I must speak with Moonlight. 
She will want to hear my message." 

Snow hesitated, her ears twitching. Then she headed through the ferns. *Follow me." 

Squirrelflight pushed her way through, blinking as she saw the grassy clearing; Sparrow, Sunrise, 
and Hawk were sharing a thrush. Tempest and Furze lay in a patch of sunshine. 

Creek, resting beside Flurry, bristled in surprise as he saw Tree and scrambled to his paws. “Why 
is a tom here?" 

"You're a tom, aren't you?" Tree stared back at him. 

“But you're too old to be here." Creek shifted nervously. 

“You'll be old one day,” Tree grunted. 

As Snow slid into the birthing den, Squirrelflight glanced apologetically at the Sisters. “Pm sorry 
to disturb you again, but we have to talk to Moonlight." 

Sunrise blinked at her, chewing, no sign of her injury. 

Tempest lifted her head. *Do you want some prey?" She flicked her tail toward a pile of fresh-kill 
at the edge of the clearing. ^We caught plenty." 

“No thanks." Guilt prickled through Squirrelflight's fur. The Sisters were so kind. Couldn't they 
guess why she was here? “We just want to speak to Moonlight." 

Hawk blinked at Leafstar. *How's your injured leg?" she asked. 

“Healed.” As Leafstar turned to show her where the fur had grown back, Snow ducked out of the 
birthing den. 

"She'll see you,” she told them. Her gaze glittered sharply as it flitted over Tree. “Even you." Her 
nose wrinkled. 

"Thank you." Squirrelflight's heart quickened as she ducked into the den. Leafstar and Tree 
padded after her. 

The nursery was warm and well padded with bracken and moss. Cocooned from the sunshine, it 
glowed with a rosy half-light. Moonlight lay on a nest of fresh ferns, her broad head dwarfed by the 
size of her belly. 

Squirrelflight stared at it. “Your kits must be overdue." 

"Perhaps." Moonlight’s gaze flitted from Squirrelflight to Leafstar. “It’s good to see you again, 
Leafstar." She ignored Tree. “Snow says you've brought a grown tom into our camp." 

“He’s been sent by the Clans, to speak for them," Squirrelflight told her. 

Moonlight's gaze rounded. “Don't they think your voices are enough?" 

Leafstar's tail twitched. “They wanted someone impartial." 

“So they sent my son." Amusement glinted in her eyes. 


Squirrelflight’s chest tightened. Was Moonlight going to take this seriously? “Please listen to 
Tree. He’s your best chance for peace.” 

Moonlight flicked her gaze to Tree for the first time. “It’s good to see you again, Earth." 

“Ttold you,” he meowed firmly. “I’m not Earth anymore. Pm Tree.” 

“Of course.” She dipped her head politely. “And you’ve come with a message from the Clans.” 

“Not a message,” he told her. “I’ve come to persuade you to leave this territory.” 

She held his gaze coolly. “Really.” She sounded unimpressed. 

“You already know that SkyClan wants this land,” he began. “The land around the lake 1s not big 
enough to support five Clans. It was decided that SkyClan should move here. But they can't while 
you're here.” 

“Гуе told Leafstar already that she can have the land when we move on,” Moonlight told him. 

“You need to move on now. The Clans are already fighting over land. Every moment you stay here 
puts another warrior at risk.” Tree stared at her urgently. “For the sake of the Clans, you have to go.” 

Moonlight tipped her head. “I thought the Clans enjoyed fighting. They attacked us for no good 
reason. They nearly killed Sunrise.” 

“You were trespassing,” Tree reminded her. “And you maimed one of their warriors.” 

“If they'd simply asked us to leave, no one would have been hurt." 

Tree’s fur ruffled along his spine. “That's what they’re doing now,” he meowed. “Asking you to 
leave so that no one gets hurt.” 

Moonlight narrowed her eyes. “Is that a threat?” 

Squirrelflight’s heart quickened. Moonlight was being difficult. She shot Tree a warning glance. 

He dipped his head. “I came here to reason with you, not to threaten.” 

“Then reason with me." Moonlight’s gaze suddenly hardened. “Don’t quote words given to you by 
someone else. You're my son. I hope I taught you to have a mind of your own." 

“I was your son," Tree answered. “I speak for the Clans now.” 

“The Clans!" Moonlight snorted. “Do you think like a Clan cat too? Dividing land out like prey to 
be given to others." She scowled at him. *Have you forgotten that as a tom, you are protector of the 
land? You should wander it, not own it!” 

“You’ve never believed in borders!” Tree snapped back. “You’ve never believed in home. But 
some cats want to belong. They want a home that will always be a home." 

Squirrelflight stepped forward. “I realize this is an emotional time," she meowed evenly. 
"Perhaps it wasn't the best idea to ask your son to reason with you. But he's not trying to threaten you. 
And if his words are someone else's, it's because he's trying so hard not to. But the truth is, if you 
don't move, you will face a battle with more cats than you have ever seen, every one of them trained 
in fighting." 

Leafstar shifted beside her. “You say you want to have your kits here, but they would be in danger 
here." 

Moonlight glared at her. “Is the land really worth that much to the Clans? Would they harm kits to 
get their paws on it?” 

A chill ran along Squirrelflight's spine. 

Tree lashed his tail. “Why argue?" he growled. “You're outnumbered. There's no way you can 
defend this valley. You certainly couldn't defend the hunting land around it. Why don't you just accept 
that you have to leave?" 

Moonlight lifted her chin. “The Sisters will not be bullied. We will not move. If the Clans wish to 
attack us, we will defend ourselves." 


Squirrelflight could hardly believe her ears. Was Moonlight crazy? ThunderClan would not hurt a 
queen and her kits, but ShadowClan might, or even WindClan. A battle could easily rage out of 
control. She stared urgently at Moonlight. “Please leave,” she whispered. “Don't risk your kits’ 
lives.” And bring shame on the Clans. If the Sisters didn't leave, the Clans might prove her worst 
fear—that they were capable of self-interest so ruthless, it wouldn't matter which cats stood in their 
way. 

Moonlight returned her gaze unwaveringly. “I’ve told you. We will not move.” 

Tree flattened his ears. “You always put your beliefs before the needs of your kits." Curling his 
lip, he pushed his way out of the den. 

Tail drooping, Leafstar followed. Squirrelflight glanced at them as they left. Perhaps it hadn't 
been such a good idea to ask Tree to mediate with his mother. She turned her gaze on Moonlight. The 
queen stared back at her coldly. “Please,” Squirrelflight mewed. They'd shared a camp, if only for a 
short while. They'd helped build this den together. She'd stood up for Sunrise when her Clanmates 
had wanted to send her away. They had a connection. Surely there was something she could say now 
to make Moonlight change her mind? 

Moonlight stared at her, unblinking. “Leave.” 

Dread settled in Squirrelflight's belly. Trembling, she nosed her way outside. They'd failed. The 
Sisters were staying and the Clans would attack. Her thoughts whirled. Preying on the vulnerable was 
not part of the warrior code. If ThunderClan attacked the Sisters, could she fight alongside her 
Clanmates? She wanted to prove her loyalty to ThunderClan, but could she risk hurting an expectant 
queen? 





CHAPTER 21 


% 


Around the island, the lake had turned to flame, lit by the setting sun. Squirrelflight and Bramblestar 
had come as soon as Squirrelflight had returned from the Sisters, sending Berrynose to fetch Harestar, 
while Leafstar had sent word to Tigerstar and Mistystar. Now the leaders from every Clan moved 
restlessly on the shore of the island, anger sparking between them as Leafstar and Squirrelflight 
reported Moonlight’s reply. 

“They won't move?" Outrage sparked in Tigerstar's eyes. 

Mistystar's pelt prickled indignantly. “This is an insult. Don't they know who they're dealing 
with?" 

“We could destroy them in a single battle!” Harestar flexed his claws. 

Squirrelflight swallowed back desperation. She could still save the Sisters. She didn't care 
whether Bramblestar wanted her to keep quiet. The Clans mustn't attack them. “But why should they 
move? Moonlight is expecting kits!" 

"Why should they move?" Tigerstar repeated Squirrelflight's question as though he couldn't 
believe his ears. 

Squirrelflight stared at him. “If we just leave them alone, they'll be gone in a moon." 

Harestar flicked his tail. “I don't think they'll ever move," he snarled. “They know we want that 
land, and they're determined to keep it for themselves." 

Mistystar nodded. “This is a matter of honor. How dare these rogues defy us!” 

Bramblestar shifted his paws. “I’m not sure honor has much to do with it," he meowed evenly. 
“But it does seem that we are going to have to chase these cats away sooner or later.” 

“And it might as well be sooner," Harestar snapped. 

“We should have done it already," Tigerstar grunted. 

"They're clearly determined to hang on to this land for as long as they can." Bramblestar glanced 
at Squirrelflight. 

She blinked at him. *Moonlight only wants to wait until she's had her kits. Is that so 
unreasonable?" 

“Tt is when the peace of the Clans is at stake," Bramblestar answered. 

Anger burned beneath Squirrelflight’s pelt. There's no need for the Clans to fight one another!” 

Tigerstar growled. “Not every Clan is willing to give their land away as easily as ThunderClan.” 
His gaze moved pointedly from Bramblestar to Harestar. “We want to keep our borders until SkyClan 
has moved." 

“We want our marshland back!” Mistystar snapped. 

Bramblestar met Squirrelflight's gaze. “Do you see? There can be no peace until the border 
disputes are settled once and for all. We have to make the Sisters leave." 

“And they're clearly not going to leave until we drive them away," Harestar growled. 

"Even if it harms unborn kits?" Squirrelflight dug her claws into the earth. How could she be the 
only cat here who didn't see how unfair the Clans were being? 

“A cat can have kits anywhere," Mistystar pointed out. “Especially a rogue.” 

“The Sisters aren't rogues!” Squirrelflight looked helplessly at Leafstar. Why hadn't she spoken 
up? 


Leafstar eyes glittered in the dying sunlight. Was that an apology in her gaze? “I think Moonlight is 
being unreasonable. She could move if she wanted to. She must know that she's putting her kits in 
danger, and yet she insists on staying." 

Squirrelflight stared at her. Leafstar had been her only ally, and now she was siding with the 
others. Her heart lurched. “Do you think we should drive them out too?" 

“Not drive them out, exactly," Leafstar murmured. “But if the Clans sent a patrol big enough to 
show Moonlight what the Sisters are up against, she might change her mind." 

"That's right!” Tigerstar's eyes lit up. “If we show up in force, Moonlight will see that it's 
pointless trying to stand against us." 

“We wouldn't have to unsheathe a claw," Harestar agreed. 

Bramblestar looked at Squirrelflight. “You must agree that's reasonable," he meowed. “No one 
would be harmed, and SkyClan would get their land now.” 

Squirrelflight's paws pricked with anger. “You don't know Moonlight," she shot back. “If you 
show up in her camp, she won't just back down. She's more likely to fight." 

“Even if she's outnumbered?" Mistystar blinked at her. 

"Especially if she's outnumbered," Squirrelflight insisted. 

Tigerstar narrowed his eyes. “If she wants to fight, then we'd fight. But it would be Moonlight's 
choice." 

Squirrelflight looked helplessly at Bramblestar. “You can't let this happen," she breathed. 
"Sending a patrol to scare the Sisters away 15 the same thing as attacking them.” 

Bramblestar stared back at her, his gaze determined. “Trying to guess how Moonlight will react is 
not my problem. I have to do what's best for the Clans." 

“Then it's settled?" Harestar looked at him hopefully. 

“ГИ bring a patrol,” Bramblestar told him. 

“We should leave at dawn," Tigerstar meowed. “Each Clan should bring its strongest warriors.” 

“Where do we meet?" Mistystar asked. 

“You can meet on our territory," Leafstar offered. “Where our border meets ThunderClan's. You 
can cross into the mountain territory easily there." She glanced nervously at Tigerstar. “But SkyClan 
won't be sending a patrol." 

“It was your suggestion!" Harestar blinked at the SkyClan leader. 

Leafstar ignored him and pressed on. “We won't risk a war on unborn kits. But if you want to 
chase the Sisters out, we won't stand in your way." 

Squirrelflight's heart felt as heavy as stone. Tomorrow, the Clans would force the Sisters from 
their home. It didn't matter whether the Clans planned to attack first or not. The Sisters might not 
mean any harm, but she knew how stubborn Moonlight could be. This confrontation would escalate 
into violence, and she was powerless to stop it. 

Bramblestar dipped his head to the other leaders. “PI see you all at dawn." He turned and 
padded away without looking at Squirrelflight. She stared after him. Was he ashamed? Or was he 
angry with her? Surprise jabbed at her belly. Does he even still care what I think of him? 

“You'd better hurry." Mistystar eyed her pointedly. “It looks like he's not going to wait for you. 

Heat burned beneath Squirrelflight's pelt. “I can find my own way home," she snapped. As she 
turned away, Harestar sniffed. 

“It's good to see Bramblestar taking charge of his Clan at last,” the WindClan leader murmured. 

Squirrelflight jerked her muzzle toward him. *In ThunderClan, we're allowed to have our own 
opinions," she snarled, lashing her tail as she walked away. 


She didn’t try to catch up with Bramblestar, but crossed the tree-bridge and trailed him along the 
shore. He didn't wait for her, and she could see by the set of his shoulders, his head hanging low, that 
he wanted to be left alone. In ThunderClan, we're allowed to have our own opinions. Was that true 
anymore? He”d been angry ever since she’d suggested SkyClan move to new territory at the leaders” 
meeting. Why? ThunderClan used to be a Clan where everyone’s ideas were given a hearing. Had her 
longing for more kits put him on edge? Clearly she’d been pressuring him, without knowing it, into 
doing something he didn’t want to do. Her heart ached. They used to want the same things. Now they 
seemed to think and feel differently about everything. 

When she padded into camp, Bramblestar was already organizing the patrol that would go with 
him in the morning to the Sisters’ camp. In moonlight pooling at the center of the clearing, he looked 
around at the warriors crowding excitedly in front of him. 

“Thornclaw, you'll come with me," Bramblestar told the dark warrior. 

“Сап I come?" Blossomfall pushed her way to the front. 

“Me too." Mousewhisker whisked his tail. 

Twigbranch hung back with Finleap and glanced hopefully at Squirrelflight as she passed, as if 
hoping she would keep the other cats from forcing the Sisters out. 

Squirrelflight looked away. There was nothing she could do to stop this. She slunk into the 
shadow of the Highledge, huddling away from the rest of her Clan. She didn't want to hear their eager 
voices. How could so many of her Clanmates approve of this plan? Would they be acting like this if 
she were leader? She hunched tighter, crouching against the earth. What was the point in wondering? 
She'd never be leader, just like she'd never go along with this fox-hearted plan. 

The shadows deepened as evening gave way to night. Squirrelflight fluffed her fur against the 
chill. 

“What about you?” 

Bramblestar’s question took her by surprise. 

She looked up. He stood over her, his gaze dark. Behind him the clearing was empty. “What do 
you mean?” She sat up. 

“Can I count on your support tomorrow?” There was hostility in his mew. “You are my deputy, 
after all.” 

“And your mate.” Her pelt pricked uneasily. What did he expect her to say? “But that doesn't 
mean I have to support you in everything. I can't support you when I don't agree with you.” 

“You're my deputy. I expect you to support me no matter what,” he snapped. “How can the Clan 
trust my decisions when you constantly challenge me?" 

“Youre their leader. They'll support you,” she mewed. “No matter how wrong you are.” 

Bramblestar bristled. *So you doubt your Clan too?" 

“That's not what I said." 

"It's what you meant.” 

“You haven't understood what Гуе meant for a moon!” Squirrelflight flattened her ears. “If you 
did, we wouldn't be arguing now, and you wouldn't be leading a battle patrol against an expectant 
queen!” 

“Is that all that matters to you?" Bramblestar's eyes blazed with frustration. “Some rogue and her 
kits? There's more to life than kits!” 

“And there's more to life than fighting!" 

“Of course there is!” Bramblestar held her gaze. “Do you think I don't know that?" 

"You're acting as if borders and battles are the only thing you care about,” Squirrelflight spat. 


“And you’re acting like the Sisters are the only cats you care about!” Hurt edged his mew. 

“You think I don’t care about ThunderClan?” Thorns seemed to pierce Squirrelflight’s heart. “Of 
course I care! I care about them, and I care about you! More than anything! But you don’t seem to 
respect me anymore—not as your mate, not as your deputy— and I don't know why.” 

“Of course I respect you.” Bramblestar's mew softened. “But you don't seem to agree with 
anything I say or do. I have a Clan to lead. How can I lead them when the cat I care most about thinks 
I'm doing everything wrong?" 

Squirrelflight gazed at him through the darkness. *Do you really believe you're doing the right 
thing by attacking the Sisters?" 

“Tm not attacking them! I'm just making sure they leave.” 

“But you must know there'll be a battle if you show up.” 

Bramblestar’s eyes flashed. “I don’t know anything of the kind, and I’m not responsible for how 
Moonlight might react. I know that you're worried, but I'm not going there to fight. I don't want the 
Sisters to be hurt. I will do everything in my power to make sure we move her without bloodshed.” 
He looked suddenly helpless. “I promise I’m only trying to do what's best, Squirrelflight. I can’t let 
the Clans fight among themselves. StarClan has told us there must be peace. This is the only way we 
can ensure that peace." 

Pity swelled in Squirrelflight's chest. She suddenly saw how torn he must feel. SkyClan's arrival 
beside the lake had sent shock waves through the Clans that they were still struggling to cope with. 
She understood why Bramblestar wanted to protect the Clans’ fragile harmony. But if everyone could 
just take a breath and wait, she felt sure that a battle with Moonlight and the Sisters could be avoided. 
“Don’t you see that I can't agree with you?" she murmured. “The Clans are threatening unborn kits 
because they can't wait one moon for extra land. It's greedy and heartless." 

“But more land for each Clan will mean a lasting peace." Bramblestar stared at her desperately. 
“Don’t you see that?" 

“Is peace in the Clans so important?” There hadn't been peace among the Clans while she was 
growing up, and the sky hadn't fallen in. 

“I have to obey the wishes of StarClan." His eyes glimmered with doubt. “I’m a Clan leader. 
StarClan trusted me enough to give me nine lives. I can't betray them." 

Squirrelflight's heart ached. Bramblestar sounded wretched. He needed her. She lowered her 
mew to a whisper. “Even if I don't agree with what you're doing, I love you." 

“You do?" Hope glimmered in his eyes. 

“Of course I do.” 

Pelt smoothing, Bramblestar leaned forward and pressed his muzzle to her cheek. *I love you 

too." 
Peace washed Squirrelflight's pelt for the first time in a moon. She felt the warmth of 
Bramblestar's check and breathed in his scent. He smelled of the forest and the night, dew catching in 
his fur. “I wish you weren't taking a patrol to the Sisters’ camp. I wish this could be settled another 
way. But if this is what you feel you must do, my loyalty will lie with you and with ThunderClan.” 

He leaned against her, a soft purr trembling in his throat. “Thank you." 

“Come on." She began to lead him toward the rock tumble. "Let's get some sleep. We've got a 
long journey to make in the morning." 


That night, Squirrelflight dreamed a terrible dream. Battle raged around her. Cats shrieked on 
every side, writhing as they fought. As she strained to see through blinding sunshine, paws slammed 


into her shoulder. She hit the ground with a thump and glanced desperately around, scanning the 
confusion for a face she recognized. Fear-scents bathed her muzzle. Who were these cats? Her paws 
felt as heavy as stone, the earth dragging at her pelt like water. 

As she tried to struggle to her paws, a shadow fell over her. Claws glinted in the sunlight as a tom 
slashed at her muzzle. Terror shrilling through her pelt, she rolled out of the way and hauled herself 
up, lashing out as she leaped to her paws. Her claws met something soft and ripped through. It 
crumpled under her blow. She squinted against the light, trying to see what she’d hit. On the ground in 
front of her, she saw a small body. Its orange-and-black pelt was matted with blood. Sparkpelt s lost 
kit. Horror seared her belly. She felt the blood on her claws seep into her fur, warm and wet, filling 
the air with a terrible sweetness. / killed him! 

She woke with a jolt, her pelt clammy. Blinking into the darkness of the den, she struggled to catch 
her breath. /t was just a dream. But the horror lingered in her belly. She slid away from Bramblestar 
and climbed out of their nest. It was more than a dream. She was sure. /f was a warning. Heart 
lurching, she darted out of the den. She had to check on Sparkpelt. She had to see that the kits were 
safe. 

She slithered as quietly as she could down the rock tumble and hurried through the moonlight to 
the nursery. Nosing her way in, she blinked, adjusting her eyes to the darkness. 

Sparkpelt was asleep in her nest, Flamekit and Finchkit pressed against her belly. Daisy snored 
softly in the nest beside them. Relief washed Squirrelflight's pelt. They were safe. It had been just a 
dream. 

As she crept from the nursery, movement caught her eye. A shadow shifted outside the medicine 
den. She glimpsed white paws in the darkness and recognized Leafpool. What was she doing up? It 
wasn't even close to dawn. She padded toward her. *Leafpool?" she whispered. “Are you okay?" 

Leafpool's eyes glinted in the shadows. “I couldn't sleep." 

“Why not?" Squirrelflight's belly tightened. 

Leafpool frowned. “I'm not sure, but I have a terrible feeling that something is wrong.” She 
shuddered. “Why are you awake?" 

“I had a nightmare," Squirrelflight told her. “About a kit.” She glanced toward the nursery. “I 
thought Sparkpelt's kits might be in trouble." 

Leafpool's gaze shimmered with alarm. “Are you sure the dream was about Sparkpelt 5 kits?" 

Squirrelflight stiffened. “Who else could they be?" 

“Moonlight's.” Her mew was barely more than a whisper. 

Alarm sparked through Squirrelflight's fur. Was the dream a warning? Were Moonlight's kits in 
danger? “We have to go.” She raced for the camp entrance. “If her kits are in danger, we have to save 
them." 





CHAPTER 22 


Se 


Squirrelflight scrabbled between boulders, climbing the hill that would bring them close to the 
Sisters” camp. She could hear Leafpool panting behind. The sky was still as black as raven feathers, 
glittering with stars as they pushed onward, but light was pooling at the horizon. The Clan patrols 
would be gathering at the border soon. 

“We’re nearly there, right?” Leafpool puffed. “I recognize this track.” 

Squirrelflight glanced over her shoulder. Her sister’s pelt was ruffled, her eyes glittering with 
exhaustion. “It’s just over this hill.” She paused as they reached the top and looked down into the 
valley. The Sisters’ camp was hidden among the thick overgrowth at the bottom. “I hope we’re in 
time. My dream was really bad. If it was about Moonlight's kits, she must need us.” 

Leafpool stopped beside her. “I had a dream too.” 

Squirrelflight looked at her. “About the kits?” 

“Yes.” Leafpool eyed her uncertainly. “There were wounded kits everywhere, more than I could 
treat. I had the sense they were Moonlight's kits.” She shrugged. “I don't know why StarClan would 
send me a dream about the Sisters. They’re not Clan cats. But 1t felt important.” As she spoke, she 
pricked her ears. “Do you hear that?” 

Squirrelflight listened. A wail drifted from the valley. Her heart lurched. There was pain in the 
cry. “Moonlight!” She pelted down the hillside, zigzagging between bushes. As she plunged through a 
wall of bracken, another wail rose from the camp. Her paws skidded on the earth, sending stones 
spraying behind her. She could hear Leafpool’s paw steps thrumming at her heels as she slewed past a 
bramble. Heart pounding, she crashed through the fern entrance. 

Leafpool burst out behind her as she slowed to a stop on the grassy clearing. The wail sounded 
again. Squirrelflight jerked her muzzle around, scanning the moonlit camp. 

Snow was hurrying toward the birthing den. Creek and Flurry crouched, wide-eyed, at the edge of 
the camp, while Furze paced anxiously beside them. 

Snow stopped and stared. “What are you doing here?" 

Squirrelflight ignored the question. *Where's Moonlight? Is she okay?" 

"She's kitting.” 

Squirrelflight saw fear in Snow's gaze. 

Leafpool hurried forward. “Take me to her,” she ordered briskly. 

“But she's kitting!” Snow blinked at her. 

“I'm a medicine cat, remember?" Leafpool told her. “I treated Sunrise.” 

“Hawk and Tempest are taking care of her." Snow sounded uncertain. “They know what to do." A 
screech echoed from the birthing den. 

“Tt sounds like they need help." Leafpool pushed past Snow and disappeared inside. 

Squirrelflight blinked at Snow, trying not to betray her fear. "She's helped deliver countless kits 
in ThunderClan, including my own. She knows what she's doing." 

"[ hope so." Snow’s pelt prickled along her spine. “Moonlight’s been kitting since sundown. 
She's had one kit but something's wrong. We've never seen anything like this. Perhaps it's because 
she was expecting for so long. The kits might be too big. The next one won't come. I think it's stuck." 

Pressing back panic, Squirrelflight darted after Leafpool. She blinked, adjusting to the darkness, 


as Snow squeezed after her. 

At the edge of the den, a newborn kit mewled at Tempest’s paws while Hawk crouched beside 
Moonlight. The queen was stiff with pain as she fought against a spasm. Her thick pelt was matted. 
Her eyes rolled wildly and she let out another shriek. Squirrelflight was shocked to see strong, 
stubborn Moonlight so overwhelmed. Her suffering must be terrible. 

Leafpool ran her paws over Moonlight’s belly. 

“Snow says a kit is stuck,” Squirrelflight told her. 

“I know.” Leafpool didn't take her eyes from Moonlight. “It’s facing the wrong way. I can feel it. 
We need to ease the pain and give Moonlight the strength to push." She looked at Hawk. *Do you 
know what raspberry leaves look like?" 

Hawk nodded. 

“What about ragweed?" Leafpool asked. 

Snow blinked at her eagerly. *I know ragweed." 

“Find some.” Leafpool's gaze flitted to Squirrelflight. “Go with them. Bring as much as you can, 
but be quick. We need to get this kit out before Moonlight exhausts herself completely." 

Squirrelflight nodded, relieved that she could help. As she ducked out of the den, Hawk and Snow 
pushed past her and raced out of camp. She followed, chasing Snow's white tail as it flashed away 
between the bushes. Branches poked at her pelt. Loose earth crumbled beneath her paws. She 
followed Snow to the top of the hill and out onto a stretch of grass. The white she-cat had stopped and 
was staring toward the distant horizon, her eyes narrowed against the wind that streamed through her 
fur. The land was lit now with pale dawn light. Hawk was already streaking down the hillside ahead 
of them, skimming the grass like an owl swooping for prey. 

“She’s fetching raspberry leaves," Snow told Squirrelflight. *Ragweed is this way.” She bounded 
downhill toward a shallow stream. 

Squirrelflight hurried after her, catching up as Snow reached it. The water chattered over pebbles, 
and Snow waded in and hopped out the other side. Squirrelflight splashed after her, gasping as the 
chilly water tugged her belly fur. As she scrambled onto the bank, she saw Snow stop beside a swath 
of tall yellow flowers. They swirled in the breeze as the white she-cat reached up and tore down a 
pawful of blossoms. Squirrelflight stopped beside her and helped, ripping the pungent petals from 
their stems. 

Snow heaped more on the ground. “How much do we need?" 

Squirrelflight glanced at the pile uncertainly. “That must be plenty," she guessed. “If we need 
more, I can fetch some." She grasped a bunch between her jaws and raced back to camp. Moonlight's 
wail split the air as Squirrelflight charged through the fern entrance and made for the birthing den. She 
pushed her way inside and dropped the ragweed beside Leafpool. “I can fetch more if you need it,” 
she panted. 

Leafpool took a mouthful, chewed it, and spat the pulp onto her paw. She ran her tail over 
Moonlight's trembling flank and, leaning close, held her paw to the queen's muzzle. “Swallow this,” 
she told her. 

Moonlight groaned, her gaze clouded with pain, and turned away as Snow burst into the den and 
dropped more ragweed beside Leafpool. 

“She needs to swallow this." Leafpool looked imploringly at Snow. 

The white she-cat nodded curtly and crouched beside Moonlight’s head. “It will help," she 
promised the queen. “Just swallow it.” 

Moonlight looked at her, fear in her gaze, then quickly lapped the pulp from Leafpool's paw. 


Leafpool glanced at Squirrelflight. “Did you find raspberry leaves too?" 

“Hawk's fetching some.” 

As she spoke, the den shivered and Hawk slid through the entrance. Squirrelflight glimpsed faint 
daylight outside. She stiffened. She could picture the patrols gathering at the edge of Clan territory. 
Her paws pricked nervously. What had Bramblestar thought when he’d woken to find her gone? 
Would he have guessed that she’d come here? 

Hawk's flanks heaved as she caught her breath. She dropped a mouthful of raspberry leaves 
beside Leafpool, who quickly chewed them and held out more pulp for Moonlight to lick. As Snow 
lapped the queen’s cheek encouragingly, Squirrelflight blinked at Hawk. “The Clans are coming,” she 
warned. 

“Now?” Hawk narrowed her eyes. 

"They're probably on their way," Squirrelflight told her. They're coming to tell you to leave.” 

Hawk's eyes widened. “How can we leave now?” She looked at Moonlight in alarm. 

Squirrelflight shifted her paws nervously. “I don’t know.” Would the Clan patrols retreat once 
they saw Moonlight was kitting? What would happen if they didn't? She pushed the thought away and 
leaned closer to Leafpool. *How's she doing?" 

“We can't do anything until the herbs start to work." Leafpool sat back on her haunches, her gaze 
dark as another spasm rippled through Moonlight. The queen groaned limply, helpless against the 
pain. 

Squirrelflight looked toward the den entrance. Weak sunlight was beginning to show through it. 
Every hair on her pelt seemed to tremble. P/ease let Moonlight kit in peace. She hoped that StarClan 
could hear her prayer. No cat spoke as they waited for the herbs to take hold. The first and only kit to 
be born mewled again and settled at last against Tempest's belly. Moonlight groaned softly as dawn 
brightened into day. 

At last, when Moonlight had stopped moaning, Leafpool placed her paw on the queen's belly. She 
lifted her head and looked at Leafpool. For the first time, her gaze was sharp. Leafpool met it. 
"Ready?" 

"Ready." Moonlight rolled onto her paws and crouched, her tail stiff. 

“Wait for the pain," Leafpool murmured. 

Squirrelflight held her breath. 

Moonlight pressed her paws harder against the earth as a spasm jerked along her flank. She lifted 
her head and let out a screech and pressed her hindquarters against the earth. With a shudder, the 
second kit slithered onto the ground behind her. Snow darted toward it and quickly lapped the 
membrane from its pelt. 

Squirrelflight's breath caught in her throat as silence gripped the den. 

"It's not breathing." Snow looked desperately at ће lifeless scrap of fur. 

Leafpool pushed past her. “Take care of Moonlight." As Snow crouched at Moonlight's cheek, 
Leafpool stretched the kit out and hooked its mouth open with a claw. Squirrelflight flinched. What 
was she doing? Leafpool placed a paw on its chest and pumped with small, fierce jabs. 

Hawk stared at her with wide eyes. “Be careful!” 

Leafpool ignored her and nipped the kit's scruff, then lifted the kit's body and shook it. 

The kit jerked, lifted its head, and wailed. 

It’s alive! Relief surged in Squirrelflight's belly. 

Quickly, Leafpool carried it to Tempest and put it beside its littermate. “It’s another she-kit.” 

"She's a fighter, like her mother.” Tempest scooped the kit close to her belly and bent to wash her. 


As Leafpool turned back to Moonlight, the queen jerked and shuddered, and a third kit slipped 
onto the ground. Squirrelflight held her breath as Leafpool licked the membrane clear of its muzzle. 

The kit mewled, squirming at Leafpool’s paws. 

“A tom." Leafpool's eyes shone. “He’s the last.” She lifted him between her jaws and passed him 
to Squirrelflight. “Put him with his littermates," she mewed. Squirrelflight’s heart swelled as she 
breathed in the kit's scent. She padded toward Tempest and placed the kit gently between his sisters. 
She blinked at Leafpool, who was smoothing Moonlight's ruffled pelt with a paw while Snow 
touched her nose to the queen's cheek. 

Squirrelflight tensed. “Is she okay?" 

"She's tired, but she’s fine.” Leafpool sat back on her haunches. 

Squirrelflight's pelt rippled with pleasure. They had saved Moonlight and her kits. She blinked 
happily at Snow, a purr throbbing in her throat. Then she froze. Snow had stiffened. Ears pricked, the 
white she-cat stared toward the den entrance. Heart lurching, Squirrelflight followed her gaze. 
Outside the camp, bushes rustled. Something was pushing between them. Muted paw steps scuffed the 
earth. 

Hawk's eyes glittered with panic. *Are they here?" 

Squirrelflight padded to the entrance and peered out. Creek, Furze, and Flurry had backed toward 
the center of the clearing, their hackles high. The air around them was thick with Clan scents. As the 
bushes around the edge of the camp shivered, alarm shrilled through Squirrelflight's pelt. “Leafpool,” 
she mewed huskily. “The battle patrol is here." 





CHAPTER 23 


> 


Leafpool pushed past her and looked out. “We’ve got to stop them." 

“Don’t let them see you.” Squirrelflight nosed her away. “They mustn’t know you’re here.” 

Outside, Sunrise had joined Furze, Creek, and Flurry, and they were backing toward the birthing 
den, backs arched, growling softly. Their gaze was fixed on the shivering dogwood at the far side of 
the clearing. It twitched as warriors slid out. Slowly, cats crept like shadows from the bushes, their 
eyes flashing in the early morning light. 

Squirrelflight swallowed back panic. There was no way out. She was trapped here with the 
Sisters. 

Tigerstar stalked into the clearing. His gaze flitted around the camp then settled on Furze. 
"Where's Moonlight?" 

Furze stared back wordlessly as Mistystar, Harestar, and Bramblestar fanned out around the 
ShadowClan leader. At the edge of the camp, their warriors bushed out their pelts menacingly. Furze 
flexed her claws. “You're trespassing,” she growled. 

Beside her, Flurry’s hackles lifted. “Get out of our camp.” 

Harestar flicked his tail. “We’ve come to speak with your leader.” His eyes glittered with 
hostility. 

Squirrelflight's belly tightened. Please dont fight! Would the Sisters try to defend Moonlight? 
They'd have to if the Clans didn't back down. Moonlight couldn't defend herself right now. She 
ducked away from the entrance and nodded toward the stricken queen. *We have to get her out of 
here." If Moonlight was safe, the Sisters would have less reason to fight. 

Moonlight lifted her head weakly. Her gaze flitted around the den. “Where are my kits?" Tempest 
nudged the kits toward her. With slow stumbling steps they found their mother and snuggled eagerly 
against her belly. Moonlight curled around them protectively. Her nose wrinkled. “What's that stench? 
Have foxes broken into the camp?" 

“The Clans are here." Leafpool's eyes were dark with fear. 

Squirrelflight padded closer. “They want you to leave.” 

Moonlight tried to struggle to her paws but, weak from the birth, slumped helplessly beside her 
kits. “They shouldn't have come,” she growled. 

“But they have," Squirrelflight told her. “We have to get you and your kits to safety.” 

“Tm not going anywhere.” Moonlight swished her tail. 

“If you stay here, you'll be putting your kits in danger. And your sisters will die trying to protect 
them, and you." Outside, the Sisters’ growling had hardened into warning yowls. Squirrelflight thrust 
her muzzle close to Moonlight’s. “You're outnumbered! All the pride in the world won't save you." 
Before Moonlight could answer, she jerked her muzzle toward Snow. “We have to get Moonlight and 
her kits out of here." 

Snow stared at her. "She's just kitted. They won't harm her, surely?" 

“Tigerstar wants this land, and he wants it now." Squirrelflight lashed her tail. "He's made it 
clear that he won't back down. You need to get Moonlight away while I try to stop them fighting." 

“We can't make Moonlight travel so soon." Hawk's eyes were wide. “It might kill her, or her 
kits!” 


“You have to get her clear,” Squirrelflight snapped. There wasn’t time to discuss this. “If fighting 
breaks out, she won't be safe here.” Daylight glinted through the branches at the back of the den. The 
wall was thin there. Squirrelflight hurried toward it and began to tear at the vines. “Make a hole here 
and take Moonlight and her kits out the back. Get them to somewhere safe." Her thoughts whirled. 
Was anywhere safe now that the patrol was here? It didn't matter. Right now, she must persuade the 
Sisters to leave the den. *Find somewhere you can hide." 

Tempest glanced at Snow. “The cave," she mewed quickly. 

Snow's gaze hardened. “We can't let them drive us away without a fight.” 

Squirrelflight turned on her. “Get Moonlight somewhere safe; then think about fighting!” she 
snarled. 

Snow held her gaze for a moment, then looked at the narrow gap Squirrelflight had torn. *Okay." 
She grabbed a vine and ripped the gap wider. 

"Leafpool." Squirrelflight blinked at her sister. “Pm going to go out there and try to keep the 
Clans talking. You help Tempest and Snow carry the kits. Hawk can help Moonlight." 

Leafpool stared at her. “You can't let our Clanmates see you here!” 

“I have no choice." Squirrelflight ignored the fear clutching at her belly. Will Bramblestar be 
surprised to see me here? Or will he have guessed? “It’s the only way to get Moonlight clear.” 

“What if they attack?" Leafpool's gaze was bright with fear. 

Squirrelflight pushed the thought away. “Let’s hope it doesn't come to that.” 

Leafpool narrowed her eyes. “Remember, Squirrelflight," she murmured darkly, “you’re a 
warrior, not a Sister. You must live among your Clanmates long after the Sisters are gone." 

Squirrelflight padded past the kits, still damp from their birth and as small as prey. “I must do 
what's right." Avoiding Leafpool's eye, she pushed her way out of the den. 

The warriors stared. Eyes widened. Pelts spiked as Squirrelflight slid between Flurry and 
Sunrise and squared her shoulders against the bristling warriors. They lined the clearing like a pack 
of hungry foxes. She could see Bramblestar at the edge of her gaze, but she avoided looking at him. 

“What are you doing here?" Tigerstar stared at Squirrelflight. 

Crowfeather didn't give her the chance to answer. “She came to warn the Sisters!” He padded 
forward, his tail flicking ominously behind him. 

Mistystar narrowed her eyes. “We know you wanted to undermine your leader,” she growled, “but 
we didn't think you'd go so far as to betray him." 

“T ve betrayed no cat!” Squirrelflight snapped. “I came to make sure Moonlight was okay.” 

Flurry moved closer. *Don't tell them about the kits," she hissed under her breath. “They mustn't 
know Moonlight is weak." 

Furze nodded. Creek flicked his tail. Squirrelflight glanced at them. “You have to,” she whispered 
urgently. *It's your only chance to make them leave." 

Crowfeather's eyes flashed with rage. “She”s plotting with the enemy!” 

Squirrelflight swung her muzzle toward the WindClan deputy. “The Sisters aren't your enemy!" 

Tigerstar's ears twitched angrily. “They maimed Strikestone!” 

Flurry lashed her tail. *He nearly killed Sunrise!" 

Outraged yowls exploded from the warriors. 

“They invaded our territory!" 

“We were just defending our border!” 

Alarm spiraled in Squirrelflight's chest. Tempers were flaring. She eyed Tigerstar. “You wanted 
to show the Sisters how strong the Clans are," she yowled above the noise. “You’ve done that. You 


can leave now and let them decide what to do. If they have any sense, they will leave. But it's not fair 
to bully them like this." 

Sunrise bristled beside her. “We can handle bullies.” 

“We don't need you to speak for us,” Flurry snarled at Squirrelflight. 

Squirrelflight lowered her voice so that only the Sisters could hear. “Moonlight's had her kits. 
She's okay. Leafpool and the others are taking them away from the camp." She could only hope that 
once they knew that Moonlight and the kits were safe, they wouldn't want to fight. 

Flurry narrowed her eyes. “Did the Clans tell you to send Moonlight away?” 

“No!” Surprise sparked in Squirrelflight's pelt. “I did it to protect her and the kits.” 

“Bramblestar.” Tigerstar's gaze slid toward the ThunderClan leader. “How does it feel to be 
wrong for a change?" He sounded pleased. 

A chill ran along Squirrelflight's spine. What was the ShadowClan leader talking about? She 
turned her head slowly toward Bramblestar. 

He was staring, puzzled, at Tigerstar. “What do you mean?" 

“You chose the wrong cat to be your deputy." Tigerstar's voice was as smooth as honey. “It seems 
that Squirrelflight prefers rogues to her own Clanmates.” 

“That's not true!” Squirrelflight's heart lurched. She stared desperately at Bramblestar, but his 
gaze was fixed on Tigerstar. 

“What Squirrelflight does is up to her," he meowed coldly. 

Surprised murmurs rippled from the ring of warriors. 

Breezepelt's hackles lifted. “She’s disloyal!” 

“That’s not true!” Squirrelflight glared at him. 

“And it’s not the first time,” Breezepelt went on. “You raised your sister’s half-Clan kits and told 
your Clanmates and Bramblestar they were your own! You're a liar.” 

“Liar!” Ripples of agreement spread among the warriors. 

Squirrelflight flattened her ears. Did the Clans still care about that? It had been so long ago! And 
Leafpool’s kits had gone on to help save all the Clans. 

Bramblestar eyed Breezepelt angrily. “We came here to talk to the Sisters, not rake up old bones.” 

Breezepelt flashed him an accusing look. “We didn't expect to find your deputy here, mixing with 
the enemy! Squirrelflight’s disloyal. She's been disloyal before. She can’t be trusted!" 

Squirrelflight hissed at Breezepelt. “You don’t get to lecture me on loyalty! Who did you fight for 
in the battle with the Dark Forest?” Anger pulsed in her belly. 

Crowfeather padded forward, swishing his tail as he brushed past his son. “We can listen to 
Squirrelflight’s explanation later,” he growled. Squirrelflight forced her pelt to stay flat as foreboding 
wormed in her belly. He nodded to her. “Move out of the way. We’ve come to move the Sisters.” 

“You came here to warn the Sisters,” Squirrel flight reminded him. 

“We’ve heard your warning, and we’re not moving.” Sunrise stepped forward, her head high. 

“Please don’t fight.” Squirrelflight’s mew trembled. She caught Bramblestar’s eye. He had to stop 
this. 

He stared back at her, his gaze unreadable. 

Creek bushed out his tail. “This camp is ours,” he growled. “If you want to take it, you'll have to 
take it by force.” The young cat stared at Tigerstar. 

Не 5 not even old enough to be an apprentice, Squirrelflight thought desperately. He can t fight 
warriors. 

Furze lifted her broad head. She was almost twice as big as some of the warriors, and, for a 


moment, Squirrelflight wondered ifthe Sisters could win this battle. How many cats would be hurt? 

“Please!” She stared desperately around her fellow warriors. “Just go, and let the Sisters leave in 
their own time.” 

“A warrior never backs down.” Harestar flattened his ears and dropped into a battle stance. 

Sunrise narrowed her eyes to slits. “Neither does a Sister.” With a snarl, she leaped for the 
WindClan leader. 

The clearing exploded into battle. Shock pulsing through her pelt, Squirrelflight backed away. 
Sunrise, Furze, Flurry, and Creek disappeared beneath a throng of writhing pelts. The stone tang of 
blood filled the air. 

I promised Bramblestar that I would support him, she remembered. But how could she? Working 
so hard to save Moonlight's kits had connected her to the Sisters even more. She was a ThunderClan 
cat—she knew that—but she couldn’t shed the blood of cats she knew meant the Clans no harm. 

At the edge of the clearing, Twigbranch stared at the fighting cats as though frozen to the ground. 
Squirrelflight was surprised to see her. She hadn't approved of this patrol. Had Bramblestar made her 
come, or had she volunteered so that she could help keep the peace? The gray she-cat's eyes rounded 
with disbelief. “We weren”t supposed to fight.” 

Bramblestar didn’t seem to hear her. He shouldered his way to the middle. 

“No!” Squirrelflight tried to catch his eye. He mustn’t fight. He”d never forgive himself if he knew 
he was threatening newborn kits, hiding only a few tail-lengths away. 

Harestar reared out of the swarm. Sunrise rose with him, slashing viciously at the WindClan 
leader’s muzzle. Trading blows, they sank beneath the sea of pelts like cats drowning. Creek rolled 
out from the pack, turning as soon as he was clear and hurling himself at Cloverfoot. He hooked his 
claws into the ShadowClan deputy’s shoulders and dragged her onto her back. Leaping on top of her, 
he struggled to pin her to the ground and aimed a swipe at her cheek. Cloverfoot tried to twist free, 
but, straining with every hair on his pelt, the young tom held her fast. As his paw swung toward her, 
Crowfeather leaped from beside his Clanmates and slammed into Creek’s side. He sent Creek 
crashing into a bramble and leaped after him, paws flailing. Breezepelt, Scorchfur, and Gorsetail 
raced to help him. 

You II kill him! Squirrelflight stared in horror as Creek disappeared beneath a swarm of warriors. 
Please stop! 

Twigbranch’s pelt flashed past her. “Wait!” Squirrelflight hooked her claws into her Clanmate”s 
pelt and dragged her away from the fighting. 

Paws churning, Twigbranch wrestled free from her grip. She turned on Squirrelflight. “What in 
StarClan—" Her mew trailed away as she saw Squirrelflight. 

“We can't let this happen.” Squirrelflight stared pleadingly at the young warrior. “Moonlight has 
just kitted. She’s very weak, and the kits have hardly taken their first breath. Their first memory can't 
be a battle! Help me stop them!” 

Twigbranch glanced around the camp. “Where are the kits?” 

“Leafpool and the others have taken them somewhere safe. Flurry, Furze, Sunrise, and Creek are 
on their own.” 

Twigbranch nodded. “Ill tell Blossomfall and Mousewhisker,” she promised. “P11 make them 
stop.” She turned and pushed her way between Emberfoot and Yarrowleaf, who were scrabbling to 
get deeper into the fray. Squirrelflight began to nose her way between Oatclaw and Duskfur. She had 
to find Bramblestar and explain about the kits. He’d see why the Sisters had to fight. They were 
defending their young. As she ducked past Oatclaw, Sunrise flashed past her. Squirrelflight spun as 


the she-cat broke free of the patrol and fled across the clearing. 

“Retreat!” Sunrise called to her campmates. “We can't win here!” 

Furze ripped herself free from Shimmerpelt and Petalfur and raced after her, yowling over her 
shoulder. “Creek! Flurry! This way!” 

The battle seemed to stumble to a halt as the Clan patrol realized that their enemies were on the 
run. Creek leaped to his paws and hared after his campmates, speeding over the grass like a bird. 
Together, they crashed through a bramble and disappeared. 

Tigerstar watched them go, his eyes narrowing with determination. “Let’s make sure they’re 
gone!” Like a pack of wolves, the warrior patrol gave chase. 

As the clearing emptied, Squirrelflight stared shakily at the bloodstained grass. Her breath caught 
in her throat as she saw Flurry, lying on the ground. Her ginger-and-white pelt was matted. Scratches 
crisscrossed her muzzle. Squirrelflight hurried toward her, heart pounding. She crouched beside the 
wounded cat. Was she dead? 

“You care more about the Sisters than your Clanmates.” 

Bramblestar's mew took her by surprise. Squirrelflight turned. He was staring at her. 

She met his gaze. “I care about any injured cat,” she mewed. 

“Even an enemy?” 

“A life is a life.” She got to her paws and faced him. 

“Why are you here?” Confusion clouded his gaze. 

“Last night I dreamed a kit was in trouble,” she told him. “Leafpool dreamed it too. We had to 
come.” She padded closer. “Moonlight needed help. She was having trouble kitting and she needed a 
medicine cat. Leafpool saved her and her kits. She finished kitting just before the patrol arrived.” 

Bramblestar blinked at her. “Where is she?" 

“Leafpool and the others have taken her and the kits somewhere safe.” 

Bramblestar stiffened as yowls echoed from the head of the valley. “Where?” 

Squirrel flight shrugged. “A cave. I've never seen it before, but it can’t be far.” 

Bramblestar blinked at her. “Do you think that’s where the others have fled?” 

Alarm pricked in Squirrelflight’s paws. Get Moonlight somewhere safe; then think about 
fighting! “They might think they can defend it from the Clans.” 

Just then, a breathless Crowfeather appeared at her side. “Did you say Leafpool is in a cave?” 
His blue eyes were wide with alarm, and concern. Of course he was concerned, Squirrelflight 
realized—they had once been forbidden mates. And while both cats had moved on with their lives, 
Squirrelflight knew that those feelings never completely went away. 

"They'll be trapped," Bramblestar growled, digging his claws into the earth. “Tigerstar and the 
others will have them cornered.” 

“Then we have to stop them fighting!” She glanced at Bramblestar, but his gaze had flitted behind 
her. Something was moving across the grass toward them. As she turned, ginger-and-white fur flashed 
at the edge of her vision. With a snarl, Flurry knocked her aside. As she staggered to keep her 
balance, Squirrelflight saw the she-cat crash into Bramblestar. Hissing, Flurry sank her teeth into 
Bramblestar’s neck. He stumbled beneath the huge she-cat’s massive weight, screeching as she 
pressed hard into his neck. He dropped onto his belly and rolled onto his back. Tucking his hind legs 
under her, he began to kick out, grunting with pain. Flurry let go and, pressing a forepaw into his 
chest, swiped his cheek with her other paw. Bramblestar’s muzzle was knocked sideways. He 
struggled to escape, but Flurry pinned him down and struck him again and again. 

Squirrelflight’s pelt spiked with horror. Flurry was trying to kill him! She unsheathed her claws 


and leaped. 

“They’ve trapped the kits!” Twigbranch burst from the bushes and hared across the clearing 
toward her. 

Squirrelflight’s leap jerked into a stumble. Struggling to keep her balance, she spun to meet 
Twigbranch’s horrified gaze. 

“The kits?” Flurry jerked her muzzle toward the young warrior. In an instant she was off 
Bramblestar and pelting across the clearing. Tail bushed, she plunged through the gap where the 
others had fled. 

Squirrelflight darted to Bramblestar’s side. “Are you okay?” Her heart seemed to miss a beat as 
he lay limp. She lapped his bloody cheek urgently. “Bramblestar!” 

With a groan, he nudged her away. Staggering to his paws, he looked at her, his eyes clouded with 
pain. “Were you going to let her kill me?” 

“No! I was—" 

Before she could finish, Bramblestar limped after Flurry. “Come on. It sounds like the kits are in 
trouble." 

Squirrelflight followed him as he tracked the patrol through ragged undergrowth. “I was going to 
pull her off.” 

He ignored her. Angry mews sounded ahead. She pricked her ears. The kits. She broke into a run. 
As she burst from the bushes, she saw the warrior patrol lined at the edge of a rough clearing. Ahead, 
a sheer cliff rose like an open wound in front of them. A landslide had stripped away the stone, and 
now raw earth glowed red in the early morning light. At the bottom, large boulders formed a cave, 
roofed by the branches and rubble that had recently fallen from the cliff. Flurry and Sunrise stood 
inside, staring out from the shadows. 

“That's no place to hide kits," Bramblestar stopped beside her. 

Twigbranch was with him. She followed his gaze. “It’s no more than a pile of rubble.” 

Bramblestar peered past Flurry and Sunrise. “Are the kits in there?" 

Twigbranch nodded. *With Moonlight and the rest of the Sisters." 

"Where's Leafpool?" Squirrelflight narrowed her eyes as she tried to see past Flurry. 

"She's in there too.” 

Squirrelflight glanced along the line of warriors. They were staring at Flurry and Sunrise, their 
hackles up. 

Tigerstar padded forward. “Are you ready to leave yet?" he snarled at the Sisters. 

A shape moved in the cave behind them. Moonlight limped slowly from the shadows and stood 
between her campmates. Her eyes were hollow with exhaustion. Squirrelflight's heart quickened. The 
gray she-cat was in no state to fight. Moonlight looked along the line of warriors and curled her lip. 
“We stay," she croaked. 

Harestar narrowed his eyes. “But you're outnumbered." 

“We can defend this cave for as long as we have to," Moonlight hissed. 

“Then we'll flush you out.” Tigerstar nodded to Cloverfoot and Scorchfur. “Climb on top of the 
cave and start digging." 

“Be careful!” Squirrelflight hurried forward as Cloverfoot and Scorchfur leaped up and began to 
pick their way across the debris piled on top. Soil began to rain down across the opening. 

Flurry glanced up, narrowing her eyes against the dirt. Sunrise growled at the warriors, her pelt 
bristling with rage. Moonlight showed her teeth. 

Bramblestar padded to Tigerstar's side. ^We could starve them out." He glanced nervously at the 


warriors on top of the cave as they began to dig. ““There’s no need to endanger the kits like this.” 

Tigerstar jerked his muzzle toward the ThunderClan leader. “Kits? No one mentioned that the kits 
had been born." 

As he spoke, Moonlight lunged forward. “Attack!” The Sisters streamed from the cave, pelts 
bushed, ears flat. They hurled themselves at the line of warriors. Squirrelflight ducked away as 
Moonlight smashed into Tigerstar and sent him crashing into a bramble. Shrieks exploded around her. 
Hawk leaped onto Duskfur's back. Flurry swung a heavy blow at Snaketooth. Tempest hooked 
Reedwhisker's pelt with her claws and dragged him to the earth. At the entrance to the cave, 
Thornclaw and Creek tumbled across the ground, paws churning as they tore at each other's pelts. 

Squirrelflight stared at them desperately. This battle could end only in blood. She froze as a 
rumble sounded from the cave. A branch moved, creaking ominously as the wood began to split. She 
saw the roof shift. It was crumbling. Dirt showered the entrance. Stones rolled from the edges. The 
cave was collapsing, with Leafpool and the kits inside! 

Squirrelflight hared toward the opening. “Landslide!” She barged past Creek and Thornclaw and 
plunged into the shadows. A branch split above her head, showering splinters of wood over her. 
“Leafpool!” Her shriek echoed in the darkness. Blindly, she stumbled over stones. “The roof's caving 
in!” 

“Over here!” Leafpool’s mew echoed from the back of the cave as pebbles showered onto 
Squirrelflight’s back. Squirrelflight blinked, desperately trying to adjust her eyes to the dark. She 
could just make out Leafpool. “Where are the kits?” 

Leafpool lifted a small bundle and hurried toward her. She thrust 1t at Squirrelflight. “The others 
are at the back.” Earth was falling like rain. Stones tumbled, thumping and cracking onto the ground. 
Squirrelflight grasped the kit and turned. She smelled Hawk's fear-scent in the darkness and felt the 
she-cat in front of her. Hawk must have seen the roof crumbling too. She swung the kit toward her. 
Hawk grabbed it and Squirrelflight turned back for the next. 

She could hear Leafpool scrabbling in the dirt. “I can't find them!” Leafpool wailed. 

Squirrelflight darted to her sister’s side, ears pricked as the roof rumbled ominously above them. 
She felt something soft against her paw. “Pve found one.” The kit mewled pitifully, and she bent to 
scoop it up. Narrowing her eyes against the falling dirt, she carried 1t toward the entrance. 

Hawk was back, silhouetted against daylight as stones fell around her. She hurried forward and 
took the kit from Squirrelflight. 

“Leafpool’s looking for the last one,” Squirrelflight told her quickly and turned back. Her pelt 
bristled in panic as she peered through the darkness. She could just make out her sister”s pelt. “Have 
you found 1t?” 

Leafpool didn't reply. She was digging frantically through the earth piling against the back of the 
cave. Squirrelflight glanced around, trying to see through the haze of falling dirt and stones. The acrid 
scent of wet earth filled her nose. Had the kit managed to find 1ts way to the entrance? Perhaps one of 
the Sisters had already carried it out. Blood roared in Squirrelflight’s ears. A creak sounded above 
her and she looked up. A thick branch that was holding back rocks shifted. Shards of wood exploded 
from it as it began to split. “Leafpool!” Panic jolted through her pelt. “The roof's collapsing!” 

“Гуе found it!” Leafpool hauled a small body from the earth and swung it toward Squirrelflight. 

“Let's get out of here.” Squirrelflight took 1t from her and darted toward the entrance. Hawk was 
there. Squirrelflight jerked the kit toward her, relief swamping her as Hawk took it and hared out of 
the cave. She turned back. “Leafpool!” Squirrelflight saw her sister’s eyes flash in the shadows as a 
deafening crack split the air. The branch snapped and, with a roar, dirt and rocks thundered down. 


Earth cascaded around her. Terror seared Squirrelflight’s belly as the falling dirt pressed her to the 
ground. 

“Leafpool!” She strained to see through the deluge. “Where are you?" 

A hard blow slammed against the back of her head and flung her into blackness. 





CHAPTER 24 


Se 


Squirrelflight felt soft grass beneath her. She half opened her eyes, remembering the landslide and 
expecting to feel pain. Hadn’t something hit her head? Sunlight dazzled her. Was she still in the 
Sisters? valley? She lifted her head, surprised that she felt so well. She scrambled to her paws and 
blinked at the flower-dappled meadow rolling away into soft green hills. In the dip below her, a 
shining pond glittered in sunshine. Around it, willows draped branches toward the water. She shook 
out her pelt. Her head felt clear, her body strong. She glanced around. Where was everyone? Was the 
battle over? 

Leafpool lay a tail-length away, curled into a small dip in the grass. 

Squirrelflight’s chest tightened. Was she hurt? Her sister had been at the back of the cave when it 
had collapsed. She nudged Leafpool with her muzzle. “Are you okay?” 

Leafpool lifted her head blearily and blinked open her eyes. “I think so?” She glanced around, 
surprise flashing in her eyes. “What are we doing here?” 

“Do you know where this is?” Squirrelflight looked at her. 

Leafpool looked away without answering. 

She must still be groggy. Squirrelflight scanned the landscape. “The others must have carried us 
here," she guessed. “It’s probably near the Sisters’ camp. It doesn't look like Clan territory.” 

Leafpool got to her paws. “It’s not," she mewed softly. 

Squirrelflight glanced at her sister. There was a faraway look in her eyes. Unease fluttered in her 
belly. How could Leafpool know this place? 

Leafpool’s pelt rippled along her spine. “Squirrelflight. We're in StarCI—" 

“No!” Squirrelflight froze. “We can't be dead. There's too much left to do. We must be near the 
Sisters’ camp." She looked around frantically. “We need to find some cat. Bramblestar will be 
nearby. He wouldn't leave me alone." 

Leafpool's gaze flitted past her. Squirrelflight followed it, dreading what she would see. 
Larksong! The black tom was padding across the grass toward them. Starlight rippled in his fur. 

Squirrelflight backed away. The ground seemed to shift beneath her paws. “Did the landslide kill 
us?" 

"You're not dead yet." Larksong dipped his head as he reached them. 

Relief washed Squirrelflight's pelt. She glanced down at her own pelt and realized that she and 
Leafpool didn't sparkle as Larksong did. We aren t StarClan—yet. 

Leafpool frowned, puzzled. “Is this a vision?" 

“No.” He met her gaze somberly. “You were both hurt in the landslide,” Larksong told them. 
“Your bodies are in the ThunderClan camp. Alderheart and Jayfeather are trying to save you. While 
they try, you have paws in each world: two in the forest and two in StarClan.” 

Squirrelflight stared at him. “Trying to save us?” 

Larksong met her gaze. “We don’t know if you'll live. But you'll stay here until we find out.” 

“I can't die!” Squirrelflight’s pelt bushed. “Bramblestar thinks I betrayed him! Sparkpelt needs 
me.” She stared urgently at Larksong, wondering why he was sent to guide them. Because he died so 
recently? Surely he'll understand. . . . “You must send me back." 

"It's not in my paws,” he told her. 


Leafpool tipped her head. “Can I see my body?" 

“You can, if you wish." Larksong glanced toward the shining pond. “You can watch from there.” 

Squirrelflight pricked her ears. “Do you mean we can see ourselves in ThunderClan?" 

“Yes.” Larksong headed downslope toward the pond. 

Squirrelflight hurried after him. “Will I be able to see Bramblestar?" She needed to know if he 
still believed she'd been willing to let Flurry kill him. 

“You might," Larksong told her. “It depends." 

“On what?" Leafpool followed, pricking her ears. 

“Tm not sure. Sometimes the view is clouded.” 

As they neared the pool, Larksong crouched at the edge and dipped a paw in. 

Squirrelflight gazed down. As he swirled the water, she saw, beyond the dazzling surface, a 
shadowy forest. She began to make out a hollow among the trees. ThunderClan's camp. She leaned 
closer. The scene seemed to open, cats and dens coming into focus, and she could see her Clanmates 
moving around the clearing. Bramblestar was pacing outside the medicine den, his pelt matted and 
unkempt, still stained with the blood of battle. She tried to see his face. Was he angry? Betrayed? But 
a moment later, the vision darkened and suddenly moved inside the medicine den. “Is that me?" Her 
paws pricked as she recognized flame-colored fur in a nest at the edge of the den. 

“Yes.” Larksong nodded. 

Her body lay limply on the bracken while Alderheart leaned over her, his forehead furrowed with 
worry. Leafpool lay in the next nest, unmoving, while Jayfeather sat beside her. Squirrelflight backed 
away from the water. Numbness seeped beneath her pelt. Was this real? She glanced at Leafpool. 

Her sister was staring curiously into the pond. She lifted her face to Larksong. *Do you watch us 
from here?" 

His eyes darkened. "I've been coming here to watch Sparkpelt and the kits." He looked at 
Squirrelflight. “I miss her so much. If you go back, please tell her that ГЇЇ never truly leave her.” 

If. The word filled Squirrelflight with fresh dread. She pushed it away. “Of course ГЇЇ go back. 
Alderheart won't let me die." 

Larksong held her gaze. “Alderheart might not be able to keep you alive." 

“But Sparkpelt needs me!” 

Larksong didn't move. “She needed me too," he growled. 

Despite the sunshine, a chill ran through Squirrelflight's fur. 

Leafpool reached a paw toward the water. “Can I see anything I want to?" She touched the surface 
and the water shivered. The vision shattered and the pool once more reflected sunlight. 
Disappointment clouded Leafpool’s gaze. 

“You still have paws in the waking world," Larksong told her. “The view will be better when you 
are truly in StarClan.” 

Leafpool gazed toward the rolling hills. “Where is everyone?” 

Squirrelflight suddenly realized that the meadows and hills were deserted. “Do we have to wait 
until we’re dead to see the rest of our Clanmates?” 

“No.” Larksong’s eyes brightened. “I came to welcome you. We didn’t want to overwhelm you.” 

As he spoke, Squirrelflight saw figures on the crest of the hill, silhouetted against the sky. She 
narrowed her eyes, trying to make them out. Familiar scents touched her nose. Cinderpelt. Sorreltail. 
Ferncloud. Her heart leaped. Then her father’s warm scent touched her nose. It smelled just as it had 
when she’d been young. “Firestar!” She saw his flame-colored pelt, sparkling now with stars, and 
raced up the slope to meet him. 


Firestar wove around her when she reached him, purring loudly. “Г уе missed you," he meowed. 

She blinked at him proudly. “Bramblestar made me deputy! Did you see?” 

“Of course I saw.” His eyes sparkled. “And you’re a great deputy.” 

As he spoke, Cinderpelt, Sorreltail, and Ferncloud paced eagerly around them. Squirrelflight 
turned to greet them, overwhelmed as she glimpsed Hollyleaf. Joy flooded her pelt. “Hollyleaf!” 

The black she-cat slid between her Clanmates and touched her nose to Squirrelflight’s cheek. 
“Hey, Squirrelflight!” Hollyleaf”s fur sparkled in the sunlight. 

“You look great.” Squirrelflight flicked her tail. For a moment, she hardly remembered the 
landslide and the battle. 

“Hollyleaf!” Leafpool reached them, purring. Eyes bright, she pressed her muzzle deep into 
Hollyleaf’s neck fur. “It's so good to see you.” 

“And you.” 

As Hollyleaf nuzzled her mother, Cinderpelt blinked at Squirrelflight. “We didn't expect to see 
you so soon.” 

Sorreltail’s eyes rounded with worry. “Firestar said you may not be with us for long.” 

“Of course not.” Cinderpelt nudged her Clanmate sharply. “She needs to get back to ThunderClan. 
Bramblestar will be lost without her.” 

Ferncloud wove between them. “While she’s here, I know two kits who’d love to see her.” She 
pushed her Clanmates aside, and Squirrelflight’s breath caught in her throat. Dandelionkit and 
Juniperkit were staring shyly at her, their small paws buried in the thick grass. Squirrelflight’s heart 
seemed to crack as she saw them. These were Alderheart and Sparkpelt's littermates—the kits who'd 
died before she’d had the chance to raise them. She hurried to greet them, nuzzling them and running 
her tail along their spines. 

"Are you coming to live with us?" Dandelionkit blinked at her eagerly. 

“T don't know.” Her eyes clouded. Why did she want to go back and help Sparkpelt's kits when 
she had kits of her own here in StarClan? 

“We can show you all the best places to hunt," Juniperkit told her. “Longtail and Mousefur have 
been training us." 

Mousefur? Longtail? Squirrelflight's heart skipped a beat. Longtail and Mousefur had been 
elders in ThunderClan for a very long time when Squirrelflight was younger. Her pelt prickled with 
happiness as she saw them padding toward her. She stared at them as Dandelionkit and Juniperkit, 
purring, wove around her legs. How many times had she cleaned out their bedding and helped pick 
fleas from their pelts? They looked like young warriors now, muscles rippling beneath their glossy 
fur. A tom-kit was hurrying after them. Squirrelflight froze as she recognized his orange-and-black 
pelt. It was Sparkpelt's dead kit. As she stared at the tiny tom, Larksong bounded up the slope. He 
scooped the kit up and dropped him onto his own back, where the kit hung on, his eyes shining with 
excitement. 

“T ve named him Flickerkit," Larksong meowed proudly. 

Squirrelflight’s heart soared. “I can't wait to tell Sparkpelt!” This might be just what Sparkpelt 
needed to lift her from her grief. She stiffened as gray fur moved at the edge of her vision. She 
recognized it at once. Ashfur. The gray tom had caused so much trouble for her and for Leafpool's 
kits. And yet he was here. He dipped his head as she saw him, then glanced at Hollyleaf. Was 
Leafpool's daughter okay with Ashfur being here? Hollyleaf blinked calmly at the gray tom. There 
was no sign of anger in her gaze. Had the two cats learned to live in peace here in StarClan? 

Squirrelflight nodded curtly to Ashfur. She wasn't sure she could be as forgiving as Hollyleaf. 


After all, Ashfur had threatened to destroy the happiness she’d found with Bramblestar, and almost 
succeeded. She lifted Dandelionkit and Juniperkit onto her back and padded past him to greet Longtail 
and Mousefur. “You look so well,” she told the elders. 

“We are.” Mousefur looked far happier here than she had in her last moons in ThunderClan. “We 
were in the elders” den far too long. It's good to be able to hunt and explore again." 

“Mousefur is the best hunter in StarClan," Dandelionkit squeaked. 

“No she's not." Juniperkit plucked the fur between Squirrelflight's shoulders with thorn-sharp 
claws. “Longtail’s the best!” 

Squirrelflight could still see Ashfur out of the corner of her eye. She leaned closer to Hollyleaf. 
“It seems strange that he didn't end up in the Dark Forest,” she whispered. 

Hollyleaf shrugged. “I guess, but he's apologized. I think he's changed.” 

Longtail narrowed his eyes. “I wouldn't wish the Dark Forest on any cat." 

“What's left of it,” Mousefur grunted. 

Squirrelflight looked at her. “What do you mean?" 

“Since the Great Battle, the Dark Forest has been nearly empty," Mousefur told her. “Most of the 
cats who lived there were defeated and passed on. I think the forest is overgrown now and the trees 
are crumbling.” 

Squirrelflight's eyes widened. “Then what happens to bad cats when they die?" She thought of 
Darktail—surely he belonged in the Dark Forest, if any cat did. 

Longtail shrugged. “Who knows? They don't show up here.” 

Dandelionkit scrambled down from her back. “What’s the Dark Forest?" 

“That's where the scary cats go.” Juniperkit leaped down after her. 

“Let's be scary cats!” Dandelionkit darted between Mousefur's legs. Growling excitedly, 
Juniperkit chased after her. Flickerkit leaped down from Larksong's back and joined in. 

Leafpool tore her gaze from Hollyleaf and blinked at the kits happily. “I feel so at home here,” she 
purred. 

Squirrelflight shivered. It was good to see so many old friends, but she wasn't ready to stay. 
ThunderClan's forest was home, not here. Her gaze flitted around her old Clanmates. They were 
glancing anxiously at Leafpool. Had her sister said something wrong? 

Firestar's tail twitched. “I’m glad you're happy here," he meowed. “But I’m not sure you can 
stay." 

Squirrelflight pricked her ears. *Does that mean we're not going to die yet?" She looked at him 
eagerly. 

Firestar's gaze darkened. “We don't know," he mewed. “But even if you do, you may not be 
allowed to stay in StarClan." His gaze flitted from Squirrelflight to Leafpool. “Either of you." 

Shock sparked in Squirrelflight's belly. “What do you mean?" 

Leafpool's eyes widened. “Does StarClan think we're bad?" 

Squirrelflight stiffened. Had Bramblestar been right? Had she betrayed her Clan by supporting the 
Sisters? She was Clan deputy after all. Had StarClan seen her hesitate before defending Bramblestar 
against Flurry's attack? / was about to save him. 

Leafpool shifted beside her. “It’s because I lied about my kits, isn't it?” She moved closer to 
Hollyleaf. “I had to. I had no choice. Giving up my medicine-cat duties would have been as much of a 
betrayal." 

"It's not me but the whole of StarClan you have to convince." Firestar stared at her gravely. “They 
believe that you broke the warrior code." His gaze moved to Squirrelflight. “You both did. You lied 


to your Clan.” 

Squirrelflight stared at him. “Every cat makes mistakes,” she blurted. 

“Yes.” He shifted his paws uneasily. “But you must be held to account for yours before you’re 
allowed into StarClan.” 

“How?” Leafpool’s question was barely more than a whisper. 

“StarClan must review your lives.” He turned to Mousefur. “Take the kits away. They don’t need 
to watch this.” 

“But we want to stay with Squirrelflight!” Dandelionkit’s eyes rounded with alarm. 

Juniperkit stuck his fluffy tail in the air indignantly. “Please let us stay.” 

“Yow Il see them afterward," Mousefur told him. She caught Firestar's eye. “I hope.” Ignoring 
their complaints, the dusky brown she-cat nosed them away and swept Flickerkit after them with her 
tail. 

Squirrelflight's paws pricked with alarm. Where were they going? 

"Follow me." Firestar led her across the hillside while their Clanmates trailed behind and 
Leafpool padded at her side. 

“What's going to happen?" Squirrelflight whispered. 

Leafpool glanced at her nervously. “I don't know.” 

Firestar followed the meadow to a forest that reached down into a valley. He led them between 
trees and brambles to a wide, grassy clearing. As he stopped in the middle, Squirrelflight glanced 
around. “Where are we?" The place reminded her of Fourtrees, where the Clans had gathered every 
moon before the Great Journey to the lake. 

"This is where StarClan meets to decide the fate of every cat," Firestar told her. As he spoke, 
starlight glittered between the trees. On every side, StarClan warriors padded from between the trees. 
Their pelts, sparkling with countless stars, lit the shadows as they gathered at the edge of the clearing. 

Leafpool moved closer. *Where will we go if StarClan won't take us?" Fear shimmered in her 
gaze. 

Firestar's gaze clouded. “I don't know,” he mewed huskily. 

Squirrelflight could hardly believe her ears. What if there wasn't anywhere else? Did that mean 
she and Leafpool would just disappear? Would they become nothing but a fading memory for the 
living? Or would they end up wandering the forest forever? Perhaps Tree would be able to see them. 
Or the Sisters. “How will you decide?" she breathed. 

Firestar shifted his paws. “/ won't decide," he croaked. “I could never turn you away from 
StarClan. It is up to others." 

A black-and-white tom with a long, thin tail padded from between the trees. His pelt sparkled 
with starlight. Squirrelflight recognized him at once. Tallstar. As he stopped at the head of the 
clearing, a large, blue-gray she-cat took her place beside him. Firestar dipped his head to her. 
“Bluestar.” Squirrelflight felt Leafpool's fur bristle against her flank as a large brown tom with a 
twisted mouth crossed the clearing. “That’s Crookedstar,” Leafpool whispered. More stars glittered 
in the tom's glossy pelt. 

A skinny, battle-scarred she-cat followed, with bright wide-set orange eyes. “Yellowfang.” 
Firestar greeted her as she stopped beside Tallstar, Crookedstar, and Bluestar, and then dipped his 
head to a snow-white she-cat who was padding across the clearing. *Moth Flight." He blinked 
politely as a small brown tabby tom followed. “Littlecloud.” As they lined up beside the others, 
Firestar's gaze flicked back to Squirrelflight. “These cats will decide if you deserve a place in 
StarClan." 


Squirrelflight tried to read their gazes. Would they be sympathetic? 

Leafpool was staring at Firestar. “How will they decide?" 

"They'll hear what you have to say,” he told her. His tail twitched uneasily. You're lucky in a 
way. Most cats don't have the chance to speak for themselves. Their fate is decided before they reach 
us." 

Squirrelflight stared at him, fear jabbing her belly. “Are we supposed to be grateful?" She and 
Leafpool had served their Clan since they'd been given their apprentice names. They shouldn't have 
to plead for a place in StarClan. 

Firestar eyed her nervously. “Please think before you speak, Squirrelflight,”” he whispered. 

She dipped her head apologetically and forced her pelt to smooth. *Okay." 

Moth Flight lifted her muzzle. “Leafpool. We'll start with you.” 

Leafpool's eyes flashed with alarm. 

Squirrelflight blinked at her reassuringly. “Just tell them the truth,” she murmured. “No cat could 
blame you for the choices you made." She watched, her throat tightening as Leafpool padded in front 
of the snow-white she-cat. 

Tallstar, Yellowfang, and Bluestar shifted their paws, their expressions giving nothing away. 
Crookedstar narrowed his eyes. Littlecloud flicked his tail as though he was impatient to begin. 

"Leafpool." Moth Flight frowned. “You had kits even though you were a medicine cat. I know 
how that feels. I was the Clans' first medicine cat. I gave up my kits and it broke my heart. That's why 
I made the rule that no future medicine cat should have kits. I wanted to save you all from such pain." 

“T fell in love," Leafpool mewed simply. 

Littlecloud's pelt ruffled. “Do you think that is an excuse?" 

“Every cat falls in love at least once," Tallstar mewed. “You didn't have to act on it." 

“You broke my rule." Moth Flight's gaze was still fixed on Leafpool. 

“I had to.” Leafpool lifted her chin. “But being a medicine cat was too important to give up.” 

“Was it worth lying for?" Moth Flight pressed. 

“What else could I do?" 

Moth Flight eyed her coldly. “You put your feelings before your Clan.” 

That 5 not true! Squirrelflight want to yowl out, but she could see Firestar's pelt pricking. Think 
before you speak. 

She blinked at Leafpool. Tell them how giving up your kits broke your heart too! Tell them it 
was the hardest decision you've ever made! Her sister was staring back at the StarClan cats, her 
eyes round. Wasn't she going to defend herself? 

Bluestar nodded to her. *Have you nothing to say?" 

Leafpool met the old she-cat's gaze, unblinking. “I’m waiting for you to say that the father of my 
kits was from another Clan." Around the clearing, the gathered StarClan cats murmured softly to one 
another, their pelts shimmering beneath the shadow of the trees as Leafpool went on. “Why defend 
myself from one accusation only to face another?" 

Squirrelflight stiffened. Leafpool sounded angry. 

“All right." Moth Flight's tail twitched ominously. “You had kits with a cat from another Clan.” 

“Have you no respect at all for the warrior code?" Littlecloud's eyes flashed. 

“Tm not a warrior," Leafpool straightened. “Pm a medicine cat. And being a medicine cat means 
more to me than anything. I gave up Crowfeather. I gave up my kits. Yes, I broke the code, but I chose 
my Clan over myself." She faced them, her pelt prickling defiantly. *If you want to keep me out of 
StarClan, it's up to you." 


Bluestar”s pelt sparkled as she stepped forward. “Would you make the same choices again?” 

Leafpool hesitated. “Of course I would! I can’t imagine my life without Lionblaze, Jayfeather, or 
Hollyleaf. Га never choose a life without them.” She narrowed her eyes. “If they’d never been born, 
we might all have been lost to the Dark Forest.” 

Bluestar frowned. “That has nothing to do with you breaking the code,” she snapped. 

Yellowfang glanced at the ThunderClan leader. “Didn’t you have kits with a cat from another 
Clan, Bluestar?" she mewed softly. 

“Bluestar wasn't a medicine cat," Moth Flight growled. 

Yellowfang tipped her head to one side. “You had kits, Moth Flight, before you decided you were 
the first and last medicine cat who could. Is that fair?" 

“It was for the good of the Clans." Moth Flight glared at her. 

“Tt seems to me"—Yellowfang's ears twitched— that Leafpool sacrificed everything she loved to 
be a loyal medicine cat to her Clan. Can we ask more than that?" 

“Of course we can!” Littlecloud glared at his Clanmates. “What's the point in having rules if cats 
can break them whenever they like?" 

“Leafpool didn't just have kits," Crookedstar reminded them. “She had kits with a cat from 
another Clan and lied about it to every cat." 

Yellowfang flicked her tail crossly. “She gave them up to be a medicine cat, just as Bluestar gave 
up her own kits to be a leader. I did the same in my time, and I am still a member of StarClan." 

Bluestar held her gaze for a moment, then dipped her head. “Yellowfang has a point. We can't 
condemn Leafpool for breaking rules we've broken ourselves." 

Crookedstar spoke for the first time. “Leafpool is right about her kits. They helped save the Clans 
from the Dark Forest." 

“Only because we chose them," Moth Flight snapped. “We could have chosen any cat.” 

Around the clearing, the StarClan warriors shifted uneasily. Squirrelflight's pelt pricked. Moth 
Flight seemed determined to keep Leafpool out of StarClan. Was her word enough to overrule the 
others? She looked anxiously at Leafpool. Her sister's pelt was smooth as she gazed calmly at the 
StarClan leaders. 

“Don’t argue over me," Leafpool mewed suddenly. “I don't regret having my kits. Only that I lied 
about being their mother. I wish Pd had more courage, but I thought I was doing the best for everyone 
by choosing to remain a medicine cat. If you decide that I can't join StarClan, then I must accept your 
decision. But please don't turn Squirrelflight away." 

Squirrelflight's heart leaped into her throat. Don t sacrifice your place in StarClan for me! 

Leafpool went on. “Everything she did was out of loyalty to me. I couldn't wish to have a better 
sister. She wanted to protect my kits and me, and she was willing to sacrifice everything to keep us 
safe. If some cat must be punished for what we did, punish me, not her." 

Squirrelflight's gaze clouded. Star-flecked pelts swam before her eyes. She could only focus on 
Leafpool, awaiting the judgment of StarClan. Squirrelflight pressed against Firestar. “She deserves to 
be here," she whispered. 

“So do you." Firestar nudged her forward. 

Squirrelflight's pelt spiked. Bluestar was looking at her expectantly. Heart quickening, she 
padded toward the ThunderClan leader. Leafpool blinked encouragingly, but Squirrelflight could see 
fear in her sister's gaze. 

Crookedstar padded forward and glared at Squirrelflight. “You lied to your Clan," he told her 
bluntly. “You lied to your mate. You told them that Hollyleaf, Lionblaze, and Jayfeather were yours. 


Why should such a deceitful cat have a place in StarClan?” 

Squirrelflight looked at her paws. Her pelt burned. “That was my only lie," she mumbled. “I have 
been loyal to my Clan in every other way.” 

“Really?” Bluestar’s mew was sharp. “We have seen you choose the Sisters over your Clan time 
and time again in the last moon. They are strangers to the forest, and yet you put your own Clan at risk 
to protect them.” 

“Some cat had to!” Squirrelflight raised her head. 

“Why?” Bluestar's eyes flashed. 

“Moonlight was expecting kits.” 

Crookedstar frowned. “Cats can have kits anywhere. If you'd let the Clans drive her off sooner, 
she could have had her kits far from Clan territory. No cat would have been hurt. Instead you put the 
kits in danger, as well as the Sisters and your Clanmates.” 

“My Clanmates were never in danger,” Squirrelflight insisted. 

Bluestar’s eyes widened. “Have you forgotten the landslide already? Doesn't that count as 
danger?” 

Guilt clawed at Squirrelflight’s heart. “I was just trying to protect every cat.” She stared 
helplessly at the StarClan cats. “That's all Гуе ever wanted to do. I wanted to protect Leafpool when 
I lied for her. I wanted to protect Bramblestar when I lied to him. Does it matter if rules get broken if 
it’s to stop cats getting hurt?” 

Crookedstar’s gaze darkened. “Without the warrior code, we are nothing but rogues.” 

Bluestar glared at Squirrelflight. “Are you saying we should live without it?" 

“No!” Panic flared in Squirrelflight's belly. “This isn't fair! Pm just trying to explain . . .” Her 
mew trailed away. Think before you speak. Firestar was watching her, his eyes glittering with worry. 
She blinked at Bluestar. “Pm sorry. I know that a warrior shouldn’t lie. And that they must put their 
Clan before everything. I have failed you. Гуе failed my Clan.” 

Tallstar's ears twitched. “Bluestar.” He blinked at the ThunderClan leader. “Why be so hard on 
her?" 

“She broke the rules." 

“She told you why she did it,” Tallstar pressed. 

Yellowfang narrowed her eyes thoughtfully. “Is it such a crime to protect those you care about?” 
She met Bluestar's gaze. “Surely it matters more why she broke the warrior code than the fact that she 
did? If Squirrelflight broke rules, it was out of compassion. Is that so bad?" 

Squirrelflight's heart swelled with gratitude. “I know the warrior code 1s important,” she blurted. 
“I never would have broken it if I hadn't felt I was doing the right thing. I hope that the mistakes Гуе 
made, Гуе made out of love." 

Crookedstar swapped glances with Bluestar, then nodded to Leafpool and Squirrelflight. “Thank 
you." With a flick of his tail, he turned away and padded into the shadow of the forest. Bluestar, 
Tallstar, Moth Flight, and Littlecloud followed. 

Squirrelflight stared after them, hardly able to breathe. Was that it? “Are we allowed into 
StarClan?" 

Yellowfang glanced at her. “We’ll let you know once we've discussed it." With a nod, she headed 
after the others. 

Firestar hurried across the clearing. He stopped beside Squirrelflight and Leafpool, his pelt 
rippling nervously along his spine. “You spoke well, both of you." 

“I hope so." Leafpool gazed anxiously at Squirrelflight. “If they stop you Joining StarClan because 


of me, ГЇ never forgive myself.” 

Squirrelflight touched her nose to her sister's cheek. Leafpool's scent hadn't changed since they 
were kits, and she breathed it in fondly. “Whatever they decide, you're the best sister I could have 
asked for." 

“So are you." Leafpool pressed against her, her breath warm on Squirrelflight's neck. 

Pulling away, Squirrelflight saw affection shining in her eyes. She purred. “Whatever happens, 
we'll face it together." 

“Squirrelflight.” Firestar's mew jerked her attention away. He was staring across the clearing. 
Bluestar, Crookedstar, and the others had returned from the shadows. 

"We've made our decision." Crookedstar beckoned Squirrelflight and Leafpool forward with a 
flick of his tail. 

Squirrelflight's chest tightened. She felt her breath quicken. Staying close to Leafpool, she 
crossed the clearing and stopped in front of him. 

“We’ve decided that both of you did more good than harm. If this is truly the end of your lives, 
you may remain in StarClan." The RiverClan leader's eyes shone. “But remember that we are still 
watching. If your lives are not over, we'll reconsider them when you return. You still have to earn 
your place in StarClan." 

Squirrelflight nodded. “Of course. Understood.” 

“And thank you!” Leafpool pricked her ears. She turned to Squirrelflight. “If this is the end . . . 
we'll always be together now.” 

Squirrelflight blinked at her. This was what she wanted. Leafpool would always be safe now. 
StarClan would welcome her. She waited for happiness to spread beneath her pelt, but a chill gripped 
her. “Pm not ready to die,” she whispered. She turned to Firestar. “I have to go back to ThunderClan. 
I can't leave things like this.” 

Firestar’s eyes rounded sympathetically. “I know it’s hard to leave the living behind.” He touched 
his nose to her head. “But 1f your time has come to die, there”s nothing you can do.” 

Leafpool pressed against her. “Alderheart and Jayfeather might save us.” 

Squirrelflight closed her eyes. / hope so. 

“In the meantime . . .” Firestar's mew was suddenly brisk. He ran his tail along Squirrelflight’s 
spine. *You can explore our territory. One day this wi// be your home. There's no harm in looking 
around." 





CHAPTER 25 


% 


Squirrelflight tore another piece of flesh from the rabbit carcass. It was so sweet that she closed her 
eyes for a moment to savor the taste, her fur prickling along her spine. A light breeze swirled around 
the sandy ravine where Firestar had brought them, an echo of the ravine where ThunderClan had made 
their camp in the forest before the Great Journey. 

Dandelionkit and Juniperkit were playing moss-ball nearby with Larksong, Flickerkit, and 
Briarlight, while Leafpool and Hollyleaf lay happily beside Squirrelflight, paws outstretched, eyes 
closed, in a pool of sunshine. Firestar and Sandstorm were sharing a squirrel near the fern wall. The 
scents and sounds of the ravine were so familiar that Squirrel flight suddenly felt as though nothing had 
changed since she was a kit. 

Dustpelt sat beside her, his tail flicking contentedly. He gazed around the ravine. “Do you 
remember the old camp?” 

“Of course.” Squirrelflight purred. 

Leafpool lifted her head. “That's where we stood after we were given our apprentice names.” 
Leafpool nodded to the edge of the clearing. 

Squirrelflight remembered. “We were waiting for Dustpelt and Cinderpelt to take us into the 
forest for the first time." 

“You were always so impatient." Dustpelt's gaze flashed teasingly at Squirrelflight. “But you 
were a quick learner." 

“I had to be!” Affection for her old mentor warmed Squirrelflight's heart. “You had so much to 
teach me." 

Cinderpelt lay a tail-length away, sharing a squirrel with Longtail and Mousefur. She looked up 
from her meal. “Leafpool was always patient," she mewed fondly. “Especially with the elders. She 
could listen to them complain for moons.” 

Mousefur pricked her ears. *I hope you don't mean me," she mewed sharply. 

Squirrelflight saw Cinderpelt and Leafpool swap a knowing glance. She blinked innocently at 
Mousefur. “Of course she didn't. You never complained." As she spoke, Squirrelflight noticed a gap 
in the ferns at the far end of the clearing. “Look, Leafpool." She nodded toward it. “That’s where we 
used to sneak out of camp and go exploring." 

Leafpool purred. “We’d pretend we were fetching mouse bile from the medicine den and slip out 
when no cat was watching." 

Dustpelt's eyes widened. “That s why I could never find you." 

On the other side of the clearing, Ashfur got to his paws. He signaled to Dustpelt with his tail. 
“Do you want to come hunting?" he called. “Tm meeting Whitestorm by the river." 

“Sure.” Dustpelt acknowledged the gray warrior with a nod. “Pd better go. Whitestorm will be 
waiting." Dustpelt dipped his head. “ГЇЇ see you when I get back." 

Will you? Squirrelflight shifted uneasily. However nice it was to hang out with her old Clanmates, 
she wanted to be back with the living. She watched as Dustpelt met Ashfur at the entrance. “Isn't it 
weird having Ashfur around?" she asked Hollyleaf. 

“Not really." Hollyleaf licked a paw absently. “After a while, what happened in the forest seems 
less important." 


Firestar swiped his tongue around his jaws. “It’s strange how distant the living Clans seem now. 
These days I recognize more pelts in StarClan than I do in ThunderClan." 

Sandstorm pulled the squirrel carcass closer and picked delicately at the bones. “No cat fights in 
StarClan,” she mewed between bites. “But then, we're never hungry, or cold. I suppose there's less to 
fight over." 

“Squirrelflight!” Juniperkit's mew made her turn. He was hurtling toward her, his tail sticking 
straight into the air. He bundled into her, purring. “Do you want to play moss-ball with us?" 

Dandelionkit hurried after him. “Briarlight says it's more fun if we all play." 

“I said no such thing.” Briarlight bounded to the edge of the clearing and blinked at Squirrelflight. 
She looked lean and fit, her pelt sparkling with starlight. It was hard to believe she'd been crippled 
for so long. She grabbed Juniperkit and scooped him onto her back. *Do you want a badger ride?" 

“Yes!” Juniperkit squeaked. 

*Me too!" As Dandelionkit scrambled onto Briarlight's back, Larksong and Flickerkit crossed the 
clearing. 

"Let's have a race," Larksong called. 

“Can we?" Flickerkit's eyes lit up. 

“We can do anything we want.” His father ducked low enough for him to climb onto his back. 

Squirrelflight purred as Briarlight and Larksong charged away, the kits squealing with delight as 
they clung on. Her purr suddenly died in her throat. They'd always be like this. “Are they sad that 
they'll never become warriors?" 

Firestar shrugged. “They learn warrior skills,” he told her. “And even though they won't ever get 
warrior names, they can hunt and explore where they like. It's safe here. And there are always plenty 
of other kits to play with." 

Sandstorm followed Squirrelflight's gaze. “They spend a lot of time with Mosskit,” she told her. 

Squirrelflight jerked her muzzle toward her mother. *Mosskit." The name rang a bell. She'd heard 
nursery stories about her. Wasn't that Bluestar's kit? The one who went missing?" 

“Yes.” Cinderpelt shifted onto her belly. “She and Bluestar are inseparable now." 

Leafpool glanced around the camp. “Why aren't they here?" 

“Why should they be? There are no borders in StarClan," Cinderpelt reminded her. “Cats roam 
where they please. Bluestar lives with Oakheart now. They can be the family they never were in life." 

Squirrelflight wondered what it was like to live without borders. She tipped her head to one side. 
“How can the Clans live in peace here but not beside the lake?" 

“I told you." Sandstorm flicked her tail. “There”s less to fight about." 

Cinderpelt got to her paws. “I promised Yellowfang I' d hunt with her this afternoon.” She blinked 
at Leafpool. *Do you want to come too?" 

“Of course." Leafpool blinked at Squirrelflight. “Do you want to join us?" 

“No thanks." Squirrelflight wanted to make the most of the time she had here in StarClan. She 
could wake up at any moment and find herself in the ThunderClan medicine den. “Ill stay with 
Sandstorm and the kits." She watched Leafpool and Cinderpelt hurry toward the gorse tunnel, their 
pelts fluffed with excitement. Cinderpelt seemed happier here, and Leafpool happy to be with her 
again. 

Firestar closed his eyes, and Sandstorm began to wash his ears as though he were a kit. Mousefur 
rolled onto her side, clearly relishing the sunshine. How comforting it was to know that those who'd 
left them would never truly be gone. 

Hollyleaf caught Squirrelflight's eye. “Can I show you around?" 


“What about Sandstorm and the kits?” Dandelionkit, Juniperkit, and Flickerkit chased one 
another's tails on the other side of the clearing. 

"They can come too," Hollyleaf told her. *Don't forget, kits aren't confined to camp here. They 
can go wherever they like in StarClan. There's nothing to hurt them here." 

Squirrelflight glanced at her father. He was dozing now, gently snoring. “Should we wake him?" 

“He likes to have a nap in the afternoon,” Sandstorm told her. *He'll be fast asleep until sunset.” 

Squirrelflight got to her paws. “Dandelionkit! Juniperkit!” They stopped playing and looked at her 
eagerly. “Do you want to come look around with us?" 

“Yes!” Dandelionkit raced toward her, Juniperkit on her tail. 

“Can we come too?" Larksong and Flickerkit hurried after them. 

“Sure!” Hollyleaf shook out her pelt. “Maybe we'll catch some squirrels while we're out.” She 
headed for the thorn tunnel. “Tree hunting is the best.” 

“Tree hunting?" Squirrelflight pricked her ears nervously. “Isn't that dangerous?" 

“Not here." Hollyleaf ducked through the entrance. 

Juniperkit lifted his tail happily. “You can't hurt yourself, even if you fall." 

“It's like flying without wings." Dandelionkit pushed past her and raced through the gorse tunnel, 
Juniperkit at her heels. 

Squirrelflight hurried after them, her belly tightening. Even in StarClan, she didn't like the idea of 
her kits falling. 

"Don't worry.” Sandstorm must have seen her pelt prickling. She ran her tail along 
Squirrelflight's spine. “They’re perfectly safe.” 


Squirrelflight raced along the oak branch. A ginger tail bobbed just ahead. As the ground blurred 
far below, she felt no fear. She reached the end and leaped. Air streamed through her fur. The tree 
beyond seemed to reach toward her, and she landed among its branches, breathless at the thrill. She 
hesitated, scanning the tree for the squirrel. There it was, swarming up the trunk! She hauled herself 
upward, her claws digging easily into the soft bark, and scrambled onto a crooked branch as the 
squirrel doubled back. 

Hollyleaf was watching from the branch above. As the squirrel neared her, she slithered down, 
blocking the squirrel's path. It turned, eyes widening as it saw Squirrelflight. She leaped for it and 
hooked it up, then killed it with a single bite. Its blood sang on her tongue, and she sat back on her 
haunches, satisfaction pulsing beneath her pelt. 

Hollyleaf stopped beside her. *Good, huh?" 

Squirrelflight purred. “Very.” She peered down through the leaves. She could see Juniperkit and 
Dandelionkit running along a branch below. It was strange to see kits so young climbing trees. They 
weren't fast enough to catch squirrels, but they moved with such nimbleness they looked like tiny 
warriors. 

“Let’s take this down and rest,” Hollyleaf mewed. The sky was darkening as the sun dipped in the 
sky. “Firestar will be awake soon.” 

She picked the squirrel up between her jaws and scrambled down the trunk. 

Squirrelflight followed, the forest floor soft as she landed. 

Leaves rustled above her head, and Juniperkit and Dandelionkit dropped down beside her. They 
sniffed the squirrel excitedly. 

“Can we taste it?” Dandelionkit asked. 

“Aren’t you too young to eat fresh-kill?” Squirrelflight pricked her ears with surprise. 


Juniperkit rolled his eyes. “This is StarClan,” he told her. “We can eat anything we like.” 

“Okay, then.” As they padded around the squirrel, searching for the best place to take a bite, 
Squirrelflight looked around the woods. “Where”s Sandstorm?” 

“Г т here.” Her mother padded from between the trees, Larksong at her tail. Flickerkit followed 
them, dragging a mouse by its tail. His catch was almost half his size. 

“Did you catch that yourself?" Juniperkit sounded impressed as he hurried to sniff the mouse. 

Flickerkit let the mouse flop onto the ground. “Larksong flushed it out and I killed it." 

Larksong stopped beside his son and puffed out his chest. *He learns quickly." 

Squirrelflight's belly felt suddenly hollow. How would Sparkpelt feel when she heard that 
Flickerkit was learning warrior skills without her? She blinked at Larksong. “Should I tell Sparkpelt 
that you're happy here?" 

Larksong's gaze darkened. “I’m not happy, exactly." he murmured. “I still miss her." Grief 
glittered in his eyes. 

Flickerkit looked at him. *Will Sparkpelt be joining us soon?" 

“Not yet." Larksong touched his nose to Flickerkit's head. 

Guilt pricked Squirrelflight's pelt. She'd forgotten about Sparkpelt and Bramblestar while she 
was hunting. They'd be sick with worry. She should be with them, not here. “I need to see my 
Clanmates. Take me to the pond." She stared at Sandstorm. If there was a way to see her living 
Clanmates, perhaps she could send them a message. “I need to go back.” 

Sandstorm frowned. “I don't know if you can.” 

“I have to try." Squirrelflight padded past her mother and headed for the meadow where she'd 
woken. Sandstorm followed, Larksong, Hollyleaf, and the kits at her heels. Even the kits kept up as 
she broke from the forest and crossed the meadow to the pond. The surface shimmered in the fading 
light as she stopped beside it. She peered in, anxiety sparking in her belly as she saw nothing but her 
reflection. *How do I see them?" 

“See who?" Leafpool's mew took her by surprise. Her sister was hurrying toward her, Cinderpelt 
at her side. 

“I want to see Sparkpelt.” Squirrelflight touched her paw to the water. As ripples spread around 
it, she glimpsed the ThunderClan camp. She dropped into a crouch and peered harder into the pond. 
The medicine den opened before her. Alderheart hadn't moved. He was still huddled beside her nest. 
Leafpool lay next to her, Jayfeather at her side. In the hazy shadows she could make out Bramblestar. 
His eyes were hollow with grief. Her heart twisted inside her chest. “I must get to them. I have to tell 
them I’m coming back." 

“You can only watch." Sandstorm's flank brushed hers softly. 

“There must be some way to send them a message.” Squirrelflight looked again, her heart lurching 
as she realized that she couldn't see her daughter. Where's Sparkpelt?" 

"She's probably with her kits," Sandstorm murmured. 

“Or she could be grieving,” Larksong mewed. “I can never see her when she's really upset. It's 
like she's swallowed by shadows." 

Foreboding trickled like ice water through Squirrelflight's pelt. “She needs me." Her words felt 
thick. She sat up. “They all need me." 

Leafpool padded closer. "There's nothing we can do,” she mewed gently. 

“But you hear from StarClan all the time," Squirrelflight insisted. “There must be a way to reach 
them. How do you share with StarClan when you're at the Moonpool?" 

Leafpool shrugged. “I just touch my nose to the water and I’m there with them." 


Squirrelflight jabbed her nose into the pond. Water raced up her nose and made her sneeze. 

Leafpool ran her tail along Squirrelflight's spine. They'll be okay,” she soothed. 

“No, they won't!” Panic fluttered at the edge of Squirrelflight’s thoughts. “I have to reach them.” 
She stared urgently at Leafpool. “Perhaps if you try too. We have two paws here and two paws beside 
the lake. If we try hard enough, we have to be able to find our way back." 

Leafpool shook her head. “I don't want to go back yet. It's been so long since Гуе seen Hollyleaf, 
Sandstorm, and Firestar. I want to stay with them while I can.” 

“But Sparkpelt needs us.” Squirrelflight blinked at her. 

“Sparkpelt needs you,” Leafpool murmured softly. “Not me.” 

Squirrelflight saw calmness in Leafpool's gaze. Shes happy to be here. She shook out her pelt. 
Well, I'm not! “T m going to find my way back." She turned toward her kits. 

Dandelionkit was chasing Flickerkit around her brother. She stopped as she saw Squirrelflight 
padding toward them. “Have you seen all your Clanmates in the pond?” 

“Not yet." Squirrelflight ignored the guilt pricking beneath her pelt. “I have to go back." 

“Now?” Juniperkit's eyes widened. 

"But you only just got here," Dandelionkit mewed. 

“ГИ return," Squirrelflight promised. “You just have to be patient a little while longer.” She 
glanced at Flickerkit and Sandstorm. “And you have friends here, and kin. ГЇЇ be back before you 
know it." 

“Don’t you want to stay?" Sadness glistened in Juniperkit's gaze. 

“I can't stay yet," Squirrelflight told him. “There are cats I left behind. They still need me. More 
than you do.” 

“Okay, then." Dandelionkit lifted her chin bravely. “I can wait," she mewed. 

Juniperkit glanced at his sister uncertainly. “So can I, I guess." 

Squirrelflight touched her muzzle to his head, then nuzzled Dandelionkit's ears. “Be good,” she 
murmured softly. “Keep practicing your hunting skills.” 

Juniperkit flicked his tail. “By the time you get back, we'll be able to catch whole squirrels." 

“Tm sure you will." Squirrelflight's chest tightened as she turned back toward the pond. 

Larksong padded closer. “If you reach Sparkpelt, tell her I love her. Tell her not to be unhappy. 
I'll take care of Flickerkit until she can join us. But she has to be happy. She has to make a life 
without me. I don't want her to grieve." 

Squirrelflight nodded solemnly. “P1 tell her if I can.” She turned to Sandstorm. “Say good-bye to 
Firestar for me." She ignored the grief tugging at her belly. She knew what she had to do. The pond 
was her link to ThunderClan. It must be the only way to reach them. Taking a gulp of air, she leaped. 
As she plunged into the water, her breath caught in her throat. Cold pierced her fur. Eyes stinging, she 
ducked beneath the surface and fought her way down into the shadowy depths. 





CHAPTER 26 


Se 


Squirrelflight s thoughts raced as darkness enclosed her. What if the pond was bottomless? Would 
she drown? She glanced back toward the surface, but it was hidden in shadow. She forced herself on. 
If she could see ThunderClan in these waters, there had to be a way through. The weight of the water 
crushed her fur. Blood roared in her ears. Panic shrilled in her pelt as her lungs screamed for air. / 
must go back! She floundered, jerking her muzzle around, looking for escape. In the shadows, she 
glimpsed an opening. She pushed toward it, but tangled roots blocked the way, and only deeper 
shadow lay beyond. She spun around, the weight of the water tugging at her limbs. Was there any way 
out? 

Hope flashed in her chest as she spotted a light in the distance. She kicked out, pushing herself 
toward it, and pressed her mouth tighter shut, fighting the urge to breathe. Sparkpelt! Bramblestar! 
She had to get back to them. Dizzy with fear, she fought on. 

Slowly, as though she were waking from a nightmare, the chill eased and the water loosened its 
grip. She felt weightless. Her hunger for breath vanished as the water around her seemed to dissolve 
into air. She pushed faster toward the light glittering ahead, feeling its warmth as it embraced her. The 
shadows melted away, and she felt earth grow solid beneath her paws. 

She looked around. The ThunderClan camp! She was standing in the clearing. Afternoon sunshine 
washed her pelt as she watched her Clanmates move around her. Berrynose picked a shrew from the 
fresh-kill pile. Bristlepaw and Thriftpaw dragged old bedding from the elders' den, while Leafshade 
pawed fallen leaves into a pile at the edge of the clearing. They worked quietly, and Squirrelflight 
could sense sadness like rain in the air, ruffling fur and shadowing gazes. 

She stood still, expecting at any moment to be seen, but her Clanmates seemed unaware of her 
presence. 

“Do you want the rest?" Stormcloud pushed а half-eaten mouse toward Hollytuft. “I’m not very 
hungry." 

"Neither am 1.” Hollytuft gazed dully at the mouse. 

Squirrelflight felt suddenly far away. Loneliness rang like an echo in her chest. She pushed it 
away and hurried to the nursery. 

Inside, Sparkpelt lay in her nest while Daisy played with the kits. Sorrelstripe and her kits were 
outside. 

“Come on, Flamekit.” Daisy ducked down and encouraged the black tom-kit to climb onto her 
back, where Finchkit was already sitting. 

Finchkit puffed out her chest. "I got here first." 

“Only because you pushed me out of the way!" Flamekit flicked his tail indignantly and scrambled 
up beside her. 

Finchkit tried to bat him away as he barged past her. “Hey! I want to go in front.” 

“No fighting!” Daisy scolded. "There's enough room for both of you.” 

Squirrelflight glanced at Sparkpelt. Wasn't she going to tell her kits to behave? Sparkpelt didn't 
move, her gaze blank as though she was hardly aware of Daisy or her kits. Squirrelflight hurried 
across the den and crouched beside her. *Sparkpelt! Your kits need you!” Flamekit and Finchkit had a 
Clan to take care of them, but they still needed their mother. Didn't Sparkpelt realize what she was 


missing? “Don't give in to grief.” Squirrelflight remembered the closeness she had felt with her kits 
—it had always made her heart sing. “Sparkpelt!” 

Sparkpelt's ear twitched, but her gaze didn't change. She doesn t even know I'm here! Frustrated, 
Squirrelflight backed away as Daisy rolled, purring, to the ground, and sent Finchkit and Flamekit 
tumbling into the soft depths of her nest. 

They squealed with delight and scrambled out. 

“Do it again!” Finchkit clawed her way back onto Daisy's shoulders. Flamekit clambered after 
her. 

Sparkpelt didn't move. 

Heart pounding, Squirrelflight ducked out of the den. / have to live. Sparkpelt needs me. She 
hurried to the medicine den and pushed through the brambles. The small hollow was gloomy despite 
the sunlight seeping down from the opening above the pool. Alderheart leaned into one of the nests, 
and as Squirrelflight padded closer, she could see him press his ear to the flank of the she-cat inside. 
Unease wormed through her pelt as she saw her body, unmoving. Leafpool lay beside her, and 
Jayfeather crouched with his chin resting on the edge of the nest. His blind blue gaze seemed empty of 
hope. If only he knew that Leafpool was probably chasing Cinderpelt across meadows in StarClan 
now, energy pulsing through her paws. 

“Is there any herb we haven't tried?" Alderheart blinked at Jayfeather expectantly. 

Jayfeather stared ahead. “We’ve tried everything. We can only hope now.” 

Squirrelflight wondered if prayers were any use. StarClan seemed as helpless to change destiny 
as any living cat. Her heart filled with love for Jayfeather and Alderheart. It seemed that they hadn't 
moved for days. She'd been a mother to both of them, and her heart broke to see their sadness. She 
padded to Jayfeather's side, the memory of StarClan's judgment still fresh 1n her thoughts. Why 
should such a deceitful cat have a place in StarClan? How must it have felt for Jayfeather to 
discover that she wasn't his mother? She'd lied to him since birth. Leafpool had too. Was that why he 
was so sharp with his Clanmates? Had bitterness hollowed out his heart? And yet she knew there was 
warmth there. His harshness was like snow in leaf-bare, hiding buds that would blossom when 
greenleaf returned. / have to live! She had so much still to share with him. “Pm sorry we deceived 
you," she whispered, wondering if there was any way he might hear. He is a medicine cat, after all. 
“It was wrong of us. But I hope that one day you will let go of the hurt we caused you." She swished 
her tail along his spine, hope sparking in her chest as she saw his pelt smooth a little. 

Movement in the shadows at the edge of the den made her stiffen. Bramblestar had been there all 
along! She could taste his scent, but it was faint, as though he were far away. He padded to the nest 
where her body lay and sat beside Alderheart. “I wish Га listened to her." Bramblestar's mew was 
husky with grief. Alderheart glanced at him, his pelt ruffling self-consciously as Bramblestar went on. 
"[ ignored how strongly she felt. I didn't want to hear about the Sisters. It made things too 
complicated. It was easier just to think about the Clans. But Squirrelflight could see beyond that. She 
knew that honor doesn't mean anything if it can't reach beyond our borders. Any cat can respect those 
they know and love. But respecting cats we don't understand is truly being a warrior." 

“Don’t be so hard on yourself," Alderheart murmured. “You were fighting for your Clan." 

“But Squirrelflight was my deputy," Bramblestar argued. “And my mate. I should have taken her 
opinion seriously instead of brushing it aside." His shoulders drooped. “If she dies, I don’t know if I 
can carry on being leader. I will be responsible for her death. I am not fit to lead my Clanmates if I 
don't listen to them fairly." 

“No!” Squirrelflight darted to his side. “ThunderClan is more important than I am. Who else can 


lead it like you do?” She stared at him, willing him to hear, her heart aching with love for him, but he 
stared hopelessly at his paws. 

“How did we lose sight of what mattered?" His mew was barely a whisper, but Squirrelflight 
could hear it as loudly as ће wail of a kit. “Now I can feel it as strongly as ever. How did I forget 
how much I loved her?” 

Squirrelflight pressed her muzzle against his. It felt like no more than air. But his scent was 
stronger now. It filled her mouth, bathed her tongue, flooded her chest. “Our love will always be 
there,” she breathed urgently. The ache in her heart seemed to draw his scent deeper. “Even when we 
lose sight of it, our love will still be there.” 

Bramblestar slumped as though defeated. 

Alderheart shifted his paws anxiously. “Tm sure she knew that you still loved her.” But he looked 
away, as though uncertain of his words. He got to his paws and headed for the entrance. “I’m going to 
get some fresh air.” 

Squirrelflight hurried after the young tom as he nosed his way through the brambles. “Pm coming 
back!” she called after him as he padded into the clearing. Jayfeather had seemed comforted by her 
presence. Maybe Alderheart, too, could sense her assurances in some way? He crossed the camp. 
“Don’t worry." She ducked after him through the entrance tunnel. “ГІІ find my way back, I promise.” 

Outside camp, a warm breeze tugged leaves from the trees. Alderheart paused on the slope and 
looked up as they showered around him. He seemed to be searching the canopy. What was he hoping 
to see? Squirrelflight's heart leaped. Was he looking for a sign from StarClan? A sign! That was how 
StarClan communicated with the medicine cats while they were awake— with an omen. Could she 
send him one? Something to tell him she was okay and was trying to get home? 

She looked around frantically. Could she affect anything in the forest? She darted among the trees 
and pushed through ferns, hoping to stir them. They didn’t move, but a blackbird shrilled an alarm 
above her head. Could it sense her? She spotted it calling from the branch of an oak and raced toward 
the trunk. It fluttered away as she neared. She could scare prey! She spun around, her heart pounding. 
Alderheart was still standing outside the camp, gazing upward. She had to be quick. She zigzagged 
between the ferns, hoping to flush out a mouse. Bark splinters sprinkled her back. She looked up. A 
squirrel was bobbing along the branch above her head. A squirrel! It was perfect. If she could send it 
running across Alderheart's path, he might see it and wonder what a squirrel was doing so close to 
the camp. Prey was usually wise enough to stay clear. He would have to realize it was a sign! She 
leaped for the trunk and hooked her claws into the bark. Not long ago she'd been chasing squirrels in 
StarClan. This was far more serious. She had to let ThunderClan know that she was trying to get 
home. 

The squirrel looked over its shoulder as she hauled herself onto the branch. Confusion clouded its 
gaze, but its pelt fluffed in alarm. If it couldn't see her, it could sense her. It raced to the end and 
leaped into the branches of the next tree. Squirrelflight chased after it, flinging herself from the oak, 
paws outstretched. Her heart leaped into her throat as she glided through the air. With a gasp, she 
caught hold of the flimsy twigs jutting from a branch and jerked herself forward, scrabbling onto the 
thicker wood beyond. The squirrel was near the trunk. It looked up. She couldn't let it climb higher. 
She had to chase it toward Alderheart. She pushed hard against the bark, driving herself forward, and 
leaped for the trunk. Startled, the squirrel turned, fear-scent pulsing from it, and flung itself from the 
branch. It landed nimbly on the forest floor. Squirrelflight jumped after it, landing as softly as a 
shadow. She darted in front of it, startling it into turning, then chased it toward the camp. 

Excitement fizzed through her pelt as it darted past Alderheart. His gaze flashed toward it, his 


eyes widening in surprise. She pulled up and blinked at him. Had he understood the message? Its me, 
Squirrelflight. I'm coming home. 

Alderheart seemed to freeze. He stared after the squirrel; then he shook out his pelt and padded 
back into camp. 

Frustration knotted her belly. Please understand! Was this what it was like to be a StarClan cat— 
trying to communicate with the living, and never being sure if they understood? For the first time she 
wondered how many signs from StarClan they missed every day without knowing. 

She sat back on her haunches. She'd done all she could. Her pelt prickled with unease. What if 
she could never get back? Would she be stranded in the forest forever, like the dead cats the Sisters 
saw? She shivered and pushed the thought away. What had happened to the Sisters? The battle 
seemed to have left the rest of ThunderClan unscarred. Had the Sisters escaped so lightly? What had 
happened to Moonlight's kits? 

As her thoughts quickened, the forest blurred around her. She blinked, suddenly dizzy, and found 
herself in the Sisters' camp. Startled, she looked around. Hawkwing was yowling orders to a SkyClan 
patrol. 

“We’ll build the warriors’ den over there." He nodded toward a space between the birthing den 
and the den where Squirrelflight and Leafstar had slept. “And that gorse bush will make a good den 
for the elders." 

Macgyver and Plumwillow sniffed around the gorse. Macgyver slid beneath the branches and 
popped out a moment later. 

“We can dig out a hollow around the stem," he told Hawkwing. “The earth is dry and sandy. It 
won't take long." 

Sandynose pushed through the fern entrance. “There are plenty of brambles and vines we can 
gather." He padded toward Hawkwing. “We can get the camp weatherproof by leaf-bare." 

“Good.” Hawkwing looked pleased. 

Squirrelflight tasted the air for faint signs of the Sisters. Where were they? SkyClan had clearly 
claimed this land as their own. Her heart quickened. Had they driven the Sisters away? 

She hurried across the clearing and followed the trail of tattered bushes to the site of the last 
battle. Her tail twitched as she saw the cave where the Sisters had taken shelter. It was a pile of 
rubble and stone now, branches sticking out like bones from rotted prey. She could see where earth 
had been dug out. Was that where her Clanmates had pulled out her body and Leafpool's? 

“Hey!” A mew made her jump. She spun, unsheathing her claws, instinctively dropping into a 
defensive warrior stance. Then she realized—some cat could see her! 

She blinked as she saw the ghostly shape of a tabby she-cat padding from beside the landslide. 
She could see through it. She shivered, her pelt spiking. This cat was dead. 

The cat lifted her tail in a friendly greeting. “You're new here." She dipped her head as she 
neared. “Did you die recently?" 

Squirrelflight bristled. “Pm not dead.” She lifted her muzzle. 

“Really?” The tabby reached out a paw and swept it through Squirrelflight’s forelegs. 

Squirrelflight leaped away. “Hey!” Energy buzzed through her paws like the sparks from dry 
grass. 

“You look dead to me,” the tabby mewed. 

“Its just temporary,” Squirrelflight told her. “While my body mends.” 

“Sure.” The tabby sniffed, clearly unconvinced. “My name’s Blade.” 

“Tm Squirrel flight.” 


“Hi, Squirrelflight." Blade nodded politely. “How did you die—I mean”—she corrected herself 
— “get injured?" 

Squirrelflight nodded toward the landslide. “I was in there when it collapsed.” 

“T hope it didn’t hurt too much.” The tabby swished her tail. “I got hit by a monster. I was dead 
before I could feel anything.” 

“Did you live around here?” Had this cat seen the Sisters? 

“Close enough.” Blade shrugged. “I lived with Twolegs, beyond the hills there.” She nodded 
toward the cliff face. 

"You're a kittypet?" Squirrelflight blinked at her. 

“Aren’t you?” 

"I'ma warrior,” Squirrelflight told her. 

“Really?” The tabby's eyes widened. “Is that why you have such a weird name?" She didn't wait 
for a reply. *T've never met a warrior before. Especially not a dead one. I wondered where you went 
after you died. Pve only seen the Sisters since I died.” 

Squirrelflight pricked her ears. “Do you know the Sisters?" 

“Quite well." Blade sat down and began to wash her ears. “They can see dead cats," she mewed 
between licks. “I used to chat quite often with some of them." 

“Who?” 

“One was called Moonlight,” Blade told her. “And I think another was Tempest?” She looked 
unsure. 

Squirrelflight leaned forward. “Do you know what happened to them?” 

“Those other cats.” Blade jerked her muzzle toward the Sisters’ camp. “They're warriors too, 
right?” 

“Yes.” Squirrelflight’s pelt twitched. 

“When they came to look at the mess after the battle, they took the Sisters away. They were pretty 
beaten up.” 

“Did they take Moonlight away?” 

“I guess.” 

“And her kits?" Squirrelflight stared desperately at Blade. 

“Yes.” Blade tipped her head. 

But no cat died, right? Squirrelflight was too anxious to ask. She searched the kittypet’s eyes. 
She'd have said if any cat had died, surely? “Where did they go?” 

Blade shrugged. “I heard the big gray tom tell his friends to take them back to camp.” 

The SkyClan camp? Squirrelflight could hardly believe her ears. Of course—Leafstar hadn't let 
her warriors take part in the battle. If they were to shelter with any Clan, it would be with SkyClan. 
Hope flashed beneath her pelt. Were the Sisters safe at last? 

"Thanks, Blade." She turned and began to head for the forest. She had to see for herself if the 
Sisters were okay. The valley became hazy around her, and the ground seemed to shift beneath her 
paws. A moment later she found herself in the SkyClan camp. She flicked her tail. This instant 
traveling was useful! She wished she could do it while she was alive. 

Pain burst inside her head like burning ice. She winced, her paws trembling beneath her, as it 
hardened and grew sharper. Closing her eyes, she stood still, relief melting inside her as slowly it 
eased. What was that? Foreboding welled at the edge of her thoughts. She pushed it away. Perhaps 
Alderheart was trying a new treatment. 

She forced herself to focus on the SkyClan camp, startled as Fidgetflake brushed past her, 


oblivious as he sent sparks fizzing through Squirrelflight's fur. Squirrelflight shook her pelt out as 
Fidgetflake ducked into the medicine den. Quickly, she followed, blinking as her eyes adjusted to the 
shadows inside. 

Moonlight was lying in a wide, bracken nest while Frecklewish sorted herbs beside her. The gray 
she-cat's eyes were closed, and gashes crisscrossed her flank. Her muzzle was clogged with dried 
blood. 

“Has she woken yet?” Fidgetflake asked softly. 

Frecklewish shook her head. “I wish she were doing better.” She tore a bunch of dried marigold 
apart. “I’ve put new ointment on her wounds, but the infection is hard to get rid of” 

“Her kits are doing well," Fidgetflake told her. “They're nursing happily, and Violetshine says 
she's got plenty of milk now that her own kits are weaned. I've told Leafstar that she'll need extra 
fresh-kill to keep her strength up.” 

“Good.” Frecklewish crumbled leaves into a pile. “How are the other Sisters?" 

“Quiet.” Fidgetflake glanced toward the entrance. “They wish they weren't here, but they know 
it's the best place for Moonlight." 

“T just hope we can heal her." Frecklewish's eyes glittered with worry as she glanced at the gray 
she-cat. 

Fidgetflake stiffened and blinked suddenly at Squirrelflight. 

Squirrelflight froze. Can she see me? Her breath caught in her throat. Then she realized that the 
young medicine cat wasn't staring at her; she was staring straight through her. 

“I can smell ThunderClan." Fidgetflake frowned. 

"It's probably left over from the battle," Frecklewish told her. 

As she spoke, the entrance rustled. Tree poked his head in. “Pm going hunting. Does Moonlight 
need fresh-kill yet?" 

“Not yet.” 

As Frecklewish got to her paws, Tree’s eyes widened. Surprise flashed in his gaze. 
Squirrelflight’s pelt spiked with alarm. Не 5 looking straight at me! Hope flashed in her heart. Of 
course! He can see ghosts. 

“Tree?” Frecklewish narrowed her eyes. “Are you okay?” 

He blinked and shook out his pelt, snatching his gaze away from Squirrelflight. “Y-yeah,” he 
mewed. He ducked out of the den. 

Squirrelflight followed him out. “You can see me, can't you?” She followed him as he padded 
quickly across the camp. 

“T can't talk to you here,” he hissed under his breath. He led her out of camp and a little way into 
the forest. Scanning the trees, he halted. He stared at her, his eyes rounding with sympathy. “I’m so 
sorry.” 

“Sorry?” Squirrelflight frowned. What was he sorry about? 

“That you died,” he mewed. “I knew you got hurt, but we all hoped you'd survive.” 

“Tm not dead yet." Squirrelflight swished her tail. “Pm kind of . . . in between StarClan and 
ThunderClan at the moment.” 

Tree’s ears twitched. “I didn’t know that was possible,” he mewed. 

“Neither did I.” Squirrelflight sat down. “But apparently it is.” 

“Is Moonlight with you?" He peered past her. *She's been unconscious for days. Frecklewish 
isn't sure she's going to make it." 

"[ haven't seen her," Squirrelflight told him, wondering suddenly if Moonlight's spirit was 


roaming the forest nearby. As she glanced between the trees, another pain seemed to pierce her eyes 
and stab into her head. It burned along her spine, and she staggered, gasping at the intensity. 

“Squirrelflight?” Tree stepped closer, alarm spiking through his pelt. “Are you okay?” 

“I don't know." She took a breath as the pain eased a little. She was trembling. 

“You started to fade.” Tree sounded scared. 

Squirrelflight’s blinked at him, her paws pricking. “I don't think I can stay here.” Had Alderheart 
found a way to wake her at last, or was StarClan tugging her back? Am I dying? Her heart lurched. “If 
I don’t wake up,” she breathed urgently as the forest began to glitter around her, “you have to give 
Bramblestar a message.” 

Tree leaned toward her. “What?” 

“You must tell him to go on without me. He has to lead ThunderClan. They need him. Tell him I 
love him and Pm waiting for him in StarClan. Tell Sparkpelt that P ve seen Larksong. He’s named 
their kit Flickerkit. They're with Firestar and Sandstorm.” Starlight filled the forest, dazzling her. 
“Tell Alderheart . . .” Pain flared in her head once more, and before she could finish, darkness 
swallowed her. 





CHAPTER 27 


> 


Squirrelflight struggled to open her eyes. Weak light surrounded her, and she felt stiff stalks of 
bracken beneath her. Her head throbbed. Pain scorched her hind leg as though a fox were tearing at it. 
She tried to look at it, and paws slipped beneath her head, cradling it like a kit. 

“Where am I?" Was she home? 

“In the medicine den.” 

She recognized Jayfeather’s mew. She strained to make sense of the shadows moving around her. 
Scents flooded her nose—Alderheart, Jayfeather, Bramblestar, the tang of herbs, and a sickly, sweet 
scent that filled her with dread. The shadows shifted and became clear. She could see the roof of the 
den, and the gap where light filtered down to the pool. 

The paws behind her head moved, and she saw Jayfeather leaning over her. She flinched as he 
dripped sap into her mouth, then recoiled as the bitter taste bathed her tongue. 

“Tt will help." Alderheart’s mew sounded close to her ear. She realized, as he gently lowered his 
head, that his paws were the ones supporting her. She struggled to sit up, but pain split her head, and 
the fox seemed to tear more viciously at her leg. 

“Don’t try to move." Bramblestar was close. She felt his warm breath on her cheek and breathed 
in his scent, her heart aching with relief. She was home and she was with him. He loved her again. 

An idea worried at the edge of her thoughts. Who was taking care of Leafpool? Alderheart and 
Jayfeather were both at her nest. Was her sister already awake? Squirrelflight craned to see. 
“Leafpool?” 

Jayfeather moved and blocked her gaze. 

“Leafpool!” Alarm sparked in Squirrelflight’s belly as she recognized the sweet, sickly scent for 
what it was. Flailing her paws, she pushed him away. She ignored the pain piercing her leg and 
struggled to the side of her nest. Leafpool lay limp in her nest. Horror hollowed her belly as she 
realized her sister’s blank, cloudy gaze could mean only one thing. Leafpool was dead. 

“Leafpool!” She heard herself wail as though hearing an owl hoot way off in the forest. It couldn't 
be true. Grief seemed to rise up like a flood from the earth and drag her once more into darkness. 


“Leafpool!” She opened her eyes. Her pain was gone. 

“Squirrel flight?” Leafpool was leaning over her. Sunshine sparkled around her. “You came back.” 

Relief swamped Squirrelflight. She scrambled to her paws and pressed her cheek against 
Leafpool’s. “I thought Га lost you. But you're here." Soft grass rippled around her paws. Meadows 
stretched away on every side, dazzling in bright daylight. She stiffened and pulled away as she 
understood. This was StarClan’s territory. She blinked at Leafpool. “Did I die too?” 

“Not yet.” Leafpool’s eyes shone with love. Stars studded her pelt so that she glittered like the 
Moonpool. 

Squirrelflight stared at her, grief tearing at her heart. “But you did.” Her words were no more than 
a whisper. 

“Tm glad to be here.” Leafpool’s eyes glistened. “I have so many friends here." 

“But you have friends in ThunderClan.” Squirrelflight stared at her. Could she really be glad to be 
dead? 


"They'll join me eventually." Leafpool looked across the meadow. Firestar and Sandstorm were 
padding toward them, Hollyleaf beside them. 

Squirrelflight's thoughts whirled. *Why am I here? Am I going to die?" Bramblestar's scent still 
lingered on her tongue. “I want to go back!” 

“Be patient," Leafpool murmured. “You can't change what will happen by wishing." 

Firestar reached them, Sandstorm and Hollyleaf at his side. “She might be able to change this.” 
He blinked calmly at Squirrelflight. 

Leafpool looked puzzled. “What do you mean?" 

“Jayfeather and Alderheart's herbs are working." Firestar held Squirrelflight's gaze. “She can 
live if she fights. But her spirit must be willing to go back." 

“Of course I want to go back!” Squirrelflight pricked her ears eagerly. 

Sandstorm's gaze was dark. “You were badly hurt," she told Squirrelflight. “You can choose to 
live, but your life in ThunderClan might be very different from the one you know now. What if your 
injured leg doesn’t heal properly? You'l have a limp. Will you be able to be deputy? Will 
Bramblestar want you as deputy? You defied his authority when you helped the Sisters. I know this 1s 
hard to hear, but what if he doesn't want you, even as a mate?" 

"That's why I have to go back!” Squirrelflight stared at her mother. “I don't care what happens. I 
have to make things right with my Clan and with Bramblestar. And my kits are there." 

“You have kits here, too," Sandstorm pressed. “You’ll be able to care for Juniperkit and 
Dandelionkit. And Leafpool will be here. Don't you remember what I told you after your apprentice 
ceremony? As long as you have each other, you'll both stand tall." 

Squirrelflight flicked her tail. “What's the good in standing tall in StarClan? ThunderClan needs 
me. Lionblaze and Jayfeather need me. If Leafpool is dead, I can't let them lose me too." 

Sandstorm's eyes glistened. “I don't want you to suffer any more than you have. Look how happy 
Briarlight is here. You don't want to return to a life like hers, do you?" Sandstorm's eyes rounded 
imploringly. *Didn't you promise that you wouldn't let anything drive you and Leafpool apart?" She 
glanced at Leafpool. “Why not join her here? Then you'll always be together. You'll be safe.” 

Firestar touched his nose to Sandstorm's cheek. “Squirrelflight must make her own decision," he 
mewed softly. “Just as she's always done." 

Leafpool's star-speckled fur rippled along her spine. “Death won't separate us." Squirrelflight’s 
heart twisted as Leafpool met her gaze. “We promised always to stick together, and it won't be any 
different now. If you go back, I'll watch over you. And one day, we will be together again." 

Squirrelflight's throat tightened. “P11 miss you,” she whispered. 

“We’ve been apart before,” Leafpool told her. “It only made our relationship stronger.” 

Squirrelflight closed her eyes for a moment. Leaving Leafpool would be hard. “If I can go back, 
perhaps you can too, if you try.” She blinked hopefully at her sister. 

Leafpool shook her head. “ThunderClan doesn’t need me. I know ГЇЇ be missed. But Jayfeather 
and Alderheart can take care of all the medicine-cat duties. Jayfeather and Lionblaze will still have 
you. Pll be happy here. I feel like Гуе come home.” She blinked lovingly at Firestar and Sandstorm, 
then looked at Hollyleaf and purred. “I’ve been away from them too long.” 

Firestar tipped his head to one side and blinked at Squirrelflight. “Are you going back?” 

“Yes.” 

“Tm proud of you,” he mewed. 

She lifted her chin. “My Clan needs me.” 

"They're lucky to have you.” He narrowed his eyes. “But you must tell them to turn toward 


99 





StarClan, not away from us. We can help 

Squirrelflight blinked at him. “We’re not turning away from StarClan.” What did he mean? 
“You’ve been quiet lately, that’s all. We’ve been listening for messages that don’t come.” 

“Perhaps you haven't been listening hard enough!” Firestar flicked his tail. 

Squirrelflight frowned. Had the Clans been missing the signs StarClan had sent them? She knew 
now how hard it was to communicate with the living. “We’ll try harder to hear you." She touched her 
nose to Firestar’s muzzle. “I must go now. Bramblestar will be wondering what happened.” 

She brushed her mother's cheek with her own. “Tell Dandelionkit and Juniperkit that РЇП be back. 
And when Bramblestar joins us, we'll be a family.” 

“Take care." Sandstorm pulled away and blinked anxiously at Squirrelflight. “Whatever happens, 
be brave." 

“T will." Squirrelflight turned to Leafpool. “I’m sorry I have to leave you." 

“T understand why you do,” Leafpool mewed. “Tell Jayfeather and Lionblaze that I always loved 
them with a mother's love and I always will. Tell them Pm sorry for the lie. I was trying to protect 
them, not hurt them. ГЇЇ never forgive myself for the pain I caused, and ГІІ be watching over them, 
and you.” She ran her tail along Squirrelflight's spine. “Even when you feel I'ma long way away.” 

Squirrelflight gazed at her sister, fixing a picture of her in her mind—her eyes bright, her pelt 
sparkling, a purr in her throat. She wanted to remember this, if she was going back to bury her body. 
“Okay.” She nodded at Firestar. “I’m ready." She glanced across ће meadow, looking for the pond. 

Firestar seemed to guess what she was thinking. “You don't need to swim back this time. StarClan 
is ready to let you go. Close your eyes." 

Squirrelflight closed her eyes and saw brightness. The blue of the sky seemed to swirl down and 
wrap her in a dazzling embrace. The ground disappeared from beneath her paws. As she fell, 
memories flashed in her thoughts. 

“Squirrelkit! Come and play!" She was in the ThunderClan nursery, back in the old forest. Leafkit 
was calling to her from the entrance. 

“Be careful!” Sandstorm called as Squirrelflight raced into the clearing, chasing Leafkit. 

“You can't catch me!” Leafkit glanced over her shoulder, her pelt fluffed with excitement. 

“Yes I can.” Heart quickening, Squirrelflight hared after her, the wind in her fur. 

The camp seemed to shift, and suddenly Leafpaw was standing beside her. They were apprentices 
again. 

Leafpaw purred. “I can call you Squirrelface if you like." 

Squirrelflight blinked at her. *You haven't called me Squirrelface in moons." Her heart ached 
with longing. 

“Come on." Leafpaw padded across the clearing toward Cinderpelt and Dustpelt. “Let's tell them 
to hurry up." 

This wasn't what had happened. “We waited for them to finish talking.” Squirrelflight hurried 
after her. Were Leafpaw's memories different from hers? 

“Hurry up!” Leafpaw whisked her tail as she reached Cinderpelt. “Pve got so much to learn. We 
have to hurry. I won't be around forever." 

As Cinderpelt turned, the forest blurred and then flashed into focus once more. She was in the 
lake camp now, and Brambleclaw was glaring at her. Couldn't you have told me the truth?” 

She remembered his words. They were seared into her heart. He was talking about the lie she and 
Leafpool had told about Jayfeather, Lionblaze, and Hollyleaf. She'd told him they were his kits. He'd 
been so angry. “It was never my secret to tell,” she breathed. “Leafpool had so much to lose.” 


“She lost everything anyway!” Brambleclaw snarled. 

“No I didn't." Relief washed Squirrelflight's pelt as she heard Leafpool's mew. Her sister was 
facing Brambleclaw, pride rippling through her fur. *I watched my kits grow into fine warriors, and I 
still serve my Clan with all my heart." 

And suddenly they were older, lying in the warmth of the setting sun. 

“You said you were going to be Clan leader." Leafpool swished her tail over the ground. “We 
were going to rule the whole forest and be the most powerful cats who ever lived." 

Squirrelflight purred as the memory warmed her. “We were very young." She gazed across the 
clearing to where Lionblaze and Jayfeather were sharing a rabbit with Sparkpelt and Alderheart. 
Bramblestar was scrambling down the rock tumble toward them. 

Leafpool got to her paws. "Take care of them." She blinked lovingly at Squirrelflight and padded 
away. 

As Leafpool faded into shadow, Squirrelflight closed her eyes. She felt solid earth beneath her 
and bracken sticking into her pelt. She was home. Good-bye, Leafpool. Her sister had had been her 
best friend. Without her, ThunderClan would never feel the same. Grief pulled at her heart as she 
drifted into darkness. PH miss you. 





CHAPTER 28 


% 


“Can you hear те?” 

Squirrelflight felt Alderheart’s breath on her muzzle. Like a drowning kit dragging itself from the 
water, she struggled into consciousness. Her head throbbed. Pain burned in her leg. But it felt easier 
now, as though the fox had loosened its grip. She opened her eyes. 

Alderheart was staring at her, hope glittering in his eyes. He pricked his ears as she met his gaze. 

“Hi,” she croaked weakly. 

“Jayfeather!” Alderheart called out without taking his gaze from hers. “She’s awake!” 

“ГИ fetch Bramblestar.” 

Squirrelflight heard the brambles rustle, and light flicked on the roof of the medicine den. 

“He’ll be here in a moment,” Alderheart told her gently. “How do you feel?” 

“Like Pve fallen off a cliff.” Squirrelflight tried to prop herself up on her front paws, but she 
didn't have the strength, and they crumpled beneath her. Her belly tightened as she recalled 
Sandstorm's words. You may never fully recover. She looked at Alderheart, searching his gaze. “How 
badly am I hurt?" 

He ran his paws quickly over her flank and down each leg. “Can you feel that?" 

“Yes.” She grunted as he lifted her hind paw. 

“Can you push against me?" 

She stretched her leg against his paw, wincing. He lowered it gently and tried the other paws in 
turn, asking her to push each time. 

“Any pain?" 

“Only my hind leg," she told him. “And my head." 

Alderheart nodded. “That's what we thought, but we couldn't be sure until you woke up.” He 
peered into her eyes as though searching for something. “Do you know where you are?” 

“In the ThunderClan medicine den." 

“Do you know who I am?" 

“Of course. How could I forget my own kit?" 

He looked relieved. “You're going to be fine." He sat back on his haunches. “You’ve wrenched 
your hind leg, and there was some swelling to your head and body where the rocks hit you. But it's 
starting to go down." 

Squirrelflight was hardly listening. Her injuries didn't matter. She peered over the side of her 
nest. *Is Leafpool still here?" 

Alderheart straightened. “She . . ." He hesitated, alarm flashing in his eyes. “We— we moved her. 
l'mafraid—" 

“It's okay." She wanted to save him the pain of breaking the news. Her mew thickened as she 
swallowed back grief. “I know she's dead.” 

“How?” He blinked at her in surprise. 

“I saw her when I woke up last time. Her eyes . . ." Her mew trailed away. She didn't want to 
remember. Should she tell him that she'd been in StarClan with her sister just a moment ago? 

Paw steps sounded outside, and Bramblestar crashed through the brambles at the entrance. “She’s 
awake?" Fear glittered in his gaze. “Is she okay?" 


“She will be.” Alderheart moved aside and Squirrelflight met Bramblestar’s gaze. Her heart 
leaped as his face softened. He suddenly looked like the young warrior she’d fallen in love with. As 
he rushed toward her, she stretched out her muzzle, breathing in the warmth and the scent of him as he 
pressed his cheek against hers. He began to lick her head, as urgent and as gentle as a mother lapping 
her kit. 

She purred. “I’m sorry I scared you.” 

“Don’t be sorry.” He pulled away and looked into her eyes. “Don't be sorry for anything. I was so 
worried. I love you so much. We should never have let things get so bad. I'll never let it happen 
again." 

Squirrelflight tried again to push herself up, finding enough strength this time to hoist herself into 
an awkward sitting position. She saw Lionblaze hesitating beside Jayfeather at the entrance. 

“Hi, Lionblaze.” 

He shifted his paws, as though he didn’t know what to say. “Pm glad you’re okay.” He looked 
relieved, and then his gaze flitted to Leafpool's empty nest. It darkened. 

“I know about Leafpool." She pushed herself higher. “I know you'll miss her as much as I will.” 

Lionblaze met her gaze. She saw conflict there, as though he wasn't sure what to feel. How hard it 
must be not to know which mother was his true mother. One had kitted him and one had raised him. 
Which one should he love? Surely there was a place in his heart for both of them. 

He looked away. “It was a dumb accident,” he growled. “We should have let the Sisters move in 
their own time. That land wasn't worth dying for." 

Bramblestar's tail twitched. “What's done is done,” he murmured. 

Squirrelflight didn't want to think about it. Of course 1t was dumb. That was what she'd been 
telling them all along. But what was the point in saying so now? She glanced past Lionblaze 
expectantly. “Did Sparkpelt come too?" 

Jayfeather crossed the den briskly. She's feeding her kits." He avoided her gaze. 

Worry sparked in Squirrelflight's pelt. *Is she okay?" 

“She's healthy." Jayfeather leaned into the nest and sniffed her injured leg. “We can make you a 
splint,” he told her. *To help you get around." 

Squirrelflight didn't care about splints. “Are the kits well?" she pressed. 

Bramblestar purred. “They're very well,” he told her. “They want to explore outside the nursery 
already. Poor Daisy 1s exhausted." 

“And Sparkpelt?" Was she playing with them yet? 

"She's had a hard moon," Bramblestar mewed. “But she'll come around, I’m sure. She just needs 
a little more time. Seeing you get well will cheer her up." 

“ГИ be better in no time.” Squirrelflight shifted until she sat up straight. She winced as pain shot 
through her hind leg. 

“PII get you some poppy seeds." Alderheart hurried to the herb store. 

“Thanks.” Squirrelflight glanced around the den. Lionblaze had padded closer, and Bramblestar 
was smoothing the bracken inside her nest. 

Jayfeather followed Alderheart to the store. *You might as well fetch her some comfrey while 
you're there," he mewed. “We can wrap her leg in it before we attach the splint.” 

She purred. It was good to be back. 


“I'm glad you woke up before her vigil." Bramblestar helped Squirrelflight from the medicine 
den. Dusk was turning into night, and the camp was bathed in shadow. “We couldn't have buried her 


without you.” 

Leaning on him heavily, Squirrelflight tried not to betray the pain jabbing her wrenched leg. The 
splint helped, but she still couldn’t put weight on her hind paw, and the smell of the comfrey leaves 
bound around her leg was making her queasy. 

She could see Leafpool now, lying in the middle of the clearing. 

Millie looked up as Squirrelflight reached them. Their Clanmates were ringed around the body, 
murmuring softly to one another as they waited for the vigil to begin. “We will miss her,” Millie told 
Squirrelflight softly. 

“Thank you.” Squirrelflight dipped her head. “She looks so peaceful.” She waved Bramblestar 
back with her tail and limped to Leafpool’s stiff, lifeless body, comforted by the thought that, in 
StarClan, Leafpool would be racing across meadows, warmed by endless sunshine. 

She felt the gazes of her Clanmates flitting around her like moths, and wondered if they'd forgiven 
her for helping the Sisters. No one had called her a traitor, but that was what they must have thought 
when she’d emerged from Moonlight's den. She looked at Bramblestar uncertainly, seeking 
reassurance. He gazed lovingly back, as though he could see only her. Graystripe caught her eye and 
nodded to her from the edge of the clearing. Thornclaw blinked at her fondly. They had forgiven her. 
Grateful, she sat down, carefully easing her wrenched leg to one side. 

The moon shone in a soft blue evening sky as Bramblestar padded forward and silenced the 
murmuring of his Clanmates with a flick of his tail. “Leafpool was a loyal and dedicated medicine 
cat. She helped her Clanmates when they were sick and watched over them when they were well. She 
couldn't mother her kits, and so she mothered all of you." His gaze swept around the Clan, and 
Squirrelflight saw her Clanmates dipping their heads in agreement. “She wouldn't sleep if she knew 
any cat was suffering, and would go without food or rest to care for her Clan. She fought for what she 
believed in and protected those who couldn't protect themselves. ThunderClan will miss her. We 
were lucky to have her.” 

Millie padded forward and touched her nose to Leafpool’s pelt. “Leafpool cared for Briarlight 
better than any cat. She made sure her life was long and comfortable despite her broken spine. She 
would sit up all night when Briarlight was in pain, talking to her and sharing stories to keep her 
spirits up. She thought up new exercises and games that would keep Briarlight healthy, and, at the end, 
Leafpool never left her side.” Emotion glistened in the old she-cat's eyes. “I hope they will hunt 
together in StarClan.” 

As she stepped back, Alderheart padded to Leafpool’s side. “I was lucky to have Leafpool as a 
mentor. She taught me so much about herbs and how to care for my Clanmates, not just their bodies 
but their spirits. ГЇЇ miss her skill and wisdom, and ГЇЇ miss her friendship more.” He looked 
expectantly at Jayfeather. 

Jayfeather pricked his ears as the Clan fell silent. 

“Jayfeather,” Alderheart prompted. “Do you want to speak?” 

Jayfeather huffed. “Do you want me to say what a great medicine cat she was, or what a great 
mother she was?” There was bitterness in his mew. 

It clawed at Squirrelflight’s heart, but she forced her pelt to stay smooth. “Say whatever you want, 
Jayfeather.” 

Jayfeather flicked his tail. “She was a good medicine cat. She trained me well and I loved her for 
it.” He frowned. “Then I discovered she was my mother and that she’d lied to me since I was born. 
Hollyleaf died defending her lie even though Leafpool had abandoned us.” 

On the other side of the clearing, Lionblaze bristled. He glared at Jayfeather. “What else could 


she do?” 

“Tell the truth?” 

“Then what?" The golden warrior's eyes flashed. “Did you want her to give up being a medicine 
cat for you? Would you give up being a medicine cat for anyone?” He flattened his ears when 
Jayfeather didn’t answer. “No. I thought not.” 

Jayfeather eyed him angrily. “You didn't give me chance to finish. I was about to say that I forgave 
her eventually. Even though I could never love her as a mother after what she’d done, I respected her 
as a medicine cat and loved her as a Clanmate.” He narrowed his eyes. “Don't pretend you loved her 
any more than I did.” 

Lionblaze's eyes glittered with grief. “I wish Га loved her more.” His mew was husky. “She 
deserved to be loved. She was loyal and good and kind.” 

Squirrelflight's eyes pricked. “She was loved.” She got to her paws, wincing at the pain. “I loved 
her. Her final act was to save a litter of kits. They were the kits of an outsider—a stranger to our land, 
and to our code. But Leafpool saw every life as important, and she died saving something she 
cherished most of all—kits.” She glanced at Jayfeather and Lionblaze. “She told me to tell you that 
she always loved you as your mother and she always will. She only lied to protect you.” Lionblaze 
looked at his paws. Jayfeather gazed blindly into the gathering darkness as Squirrelflight went on. 
“She said that she’d never forgive herself for the pain she caused you, but I hope she finds peace in 
StarClan, because she deserves to be happy.” Night hid her Clanmates in shadow, but she could see 
their eyes glistening in the moonlight. “Leafpool was the best littermate I could have had. I will miss 
her so much, but I know that she will always be with me, watching from StarClan.” 

As she finished, a breeze sent leaves showering into the clearing. They drifted down, as pale in 
the moonlight as Leafpool's amber eyes. /s she sending me a message? Squirrelflight looked at the 
stars, her heart pricking with hope. Even though Leafpool was in StarClan, Squirrelflight knew she 
wasn't very far away. 





CHAPTER 29 


% 


Squirrelflight nosed her way into the nursery. It had been a long night, and she was stiff from sitting 
vigil beside Leafpool’s body. Bramblestar had sat with her, pressing close to protect her from the 
chill. It had felt good to spend the time with Leafpool, to breathe in her scent for the last time and 
honor her memory with their Clanmates. Bramblestar was helping to bury her now. Squirrelflight had 
chosen the spot, in a quiet grove where Leafpool had loved to gather thyme. 

Daisy sprawled near the nursery entrance, letting Flamekit clamber over her. Quivering with 
excitement, Finchkit pressed her belly to the ground and, like a warrior stalking prey, watched 
Daisy’s tail flicking back and forth. 

“Squirrelflight!” Flamekit’s happy mew jerked her from her thoughts. The black tom-kit raced 
toward her and rubbed around her legs, purring. 

Finchkit looked up, pricking her ears. “Are you better now?” she asked. 

“T am,” Squirrelflight told her. 

Flamekit sniffed at the splint on her hind leg. “Why have you got this?" 

“It's to support my leg while it heals.” 

“Does it hurt?” Finchkit sniffed the splint too. 

“It’s sore, but it'll improve in a few days.” Squirrelflight glanced across the den. Sparkpelt lay in 
her nest, her chin hanging listlessly over the edge. 

Stormcloud was with her, pushing a mouse a little closer to her muzzle. “Just try a bit,” he 
murmured. “It might help you feel better.” 

Sparkpelt didn't look at him. “Why would I want that?" 

“Your kits need you,” Stormcloud edged the mouse a little nearer. 

“Tm feeding them, aren't I?” Sparkpelt pushed the mouse away. 

“Which means you need more food, not less." Stormcloud's eyes darkened with worry. “You must 
be hungry. You hardly ate yesterday." 

Daisy sat up. “He’s been coming every day,” she whispered to Squirrelflight. “Trying to persuade 
her to eat and cheer her up." She sighed softly. “Pm beginning to think he's wasting his time.” 

“Does she ever play with the kits?" Squirrelflight asked quietly. 

“She only gets out of her nest to make dirt." Daisy shook her head sadly. “If she doesn't take an 
interest in the kits soon, they're going to think I’m their mother." 

Squirrelflight lifted her chin. What could she say to help Sparkpelt out of her grief? She crossed 
the den and stopped beside Sparkpelt's nest. “I thought you might come to the vigil," she mewed 
softly, trying to catch Sparkpelt's eye. 

Sparkpelt stared at the ground. “Г уе had enough of vigils,” she growled. 

"Let's hope it's the last for a while," Stormcloud meowed darkly. 

“Vigils are a part of a warrior's life," Squirrelflight told him briskly. “You can't wish them 
away. You have to deal with them as they come." She looked sternly at Sparkpelt. “You can't let grief 
spoil what you still have." 

Sparkpelt didn't react. 

“Your kits are a blessing," Squirrelflight went on. “You should enjoy them while you can. They'll 
be grown before you know it.” 


Sparkpelt stared ahead blankly as Flamekit and Finchkit chased each other between Daisy’s legs. 

"[ saw Larksong,” Squirrelflight mewed softly. 

Sparkpelt jerked up her head. “Where?” 

“When I was hurt,” Squirrelflight told her. “I saw him in StarClan.” 

“You were never in StarClan,” Sparkpelt grunted. She circled in her nest, tramping the bracken 
into a fresh hollow before slumping heavily into it. “You’re making it up to make me feel better.” 

“He had Flickerkit with him,” Squirrelflight pressed. 

“Flickerkit?” 

“That’s what he named your kit.” Squirrelflight searched her daughter’s gaze, searching for a 
glimmer of happiness. 

Sparkpelt lifted her chin. Interest sparked in her emerald eyes. “That's the name we chose for him. 
No one knew it but me and Larksong.” 

“Larksong told me to tell you he loves you and he’s okay. He’s going to look after Flickerkit until 
you join them, and he wants you to be happy. He wants you to make a good life without him. He 
doesn’t want you to grieve.” 

Sparkpelt stared at her mother, her gaze suddenly far away. 

Squirrelflight’s heart ached as her daughter’s eyes glistened. She wished she could make her pain 
go away, but she knew Sparkpelt must face it alone. Time would help, and love. She called to the kits. 
“Come play with your mother.” 

Flamekit looked at her, puzzled. “But Daisy /ikes playing with us. Sparkpelt just wants to sleep.” 

Sparkpelt sat up. “No I don’t,” she mewed earnestly. “Not anymore.” 

Squirrelflight pricked her ears. It was the first flash of energy her daughter had shown since 
Larksong's death. She hurried to Flamekit and scooped him up by his scruff. 

“Hey!” Flamekit churned his paws in the air as Squirrelflight carried him across the den. “I was 
playing with Finchkit.” 

Squirrel flight dropped him in front of Sparkpelt. “Finchkit can come too.” She beckoned his sister 
over. 

Sparkpelt blinked nervously at her kits, as though she didn’t know what to do. 

“Here.” Stormcloud quickly tore a lump of moss from her nest and rolled it into a ball. He 
bowled it past the kits 

Flamekit leaped after it instantly, his pelt fluffing with excitement. Finchkit’s eyes rounded with 
determination. She lunged for the ball and knocked it away. 

Squirrelflight nodded to Sparkpelt. “Go on,” she encouraged. 

Sparkpelt hesitated, then reached out a paw and scooped the moss ball away from the kits. They 
turned on her, pelts prickling with indignation. 

“That was ours!” Finchkit told her. 

“Then you'd better catch it!” Sparkpelt knocked the moss ball across the den floor. 

Squeaking happily, Flamekit and Finchkit chased after it. Sparkpelt’s eyes glowed. She hurried 
after her kits and hooked the ball away again, this time tossing it high above their heads. Flamekit 
leaped for it, spinning as he jumped. 

“Great catch!” Sparkpelt mewed as he snatched the moss ball from the air. 

“Throw it again!” Finchkit stared eagerly at her mother. “I want to catch it too!” 

Sparkpelt purred and threw the moss ball high, watching proudly as Finchkit batted it away before 
it hit the ground. “You’re going to be great hunters,” she told them. 

“Can we go and practice on real prey?” Finchkit blinked at her. 


“Not yet.” Sparkpelt’s eyes were bright now. “But we can go outside if you like.” 

“It's a perfect day for chasing leaves,” Stormcloud told her. 

“Qutside the den?” Flamekit’s pelt bushed with excitement. 

Finchkit stuck her tail in the air and marched to the den entrance. “I’m going first.” 

“No you're not!” Flamekit hared after and tried to barge past as she reached the opening in the 
brambles. Finchkit pushed him away and scrambled out of the den. 

“Be nice!” Purring now, Sparkpelt hurried after them. “And fluff out your fur properly! It's chilly 
outside." 

Stormcloud watched her go. “Do you think she's going to be okay?" 

"It will take time." Hope glimmered in Squirrelflight's chest. *But with the help of her kits and 
her Clan, she'll find a way to get over Larksong's death." She ducked out of the den. Flamekit and 
Finchkit were already chasing across the clearing as the wind whisked a leaf ahead of them. 
Sparkpelt bounded after them, her tail fluffed with excitement as a fresh flurry of leaves showered 
down and the kits leaped for them, squealing with delight. 

Squirrelflight sat down to rest her leg. Why had she wanted kits of her own so much? There 
would always be kits in the Clan. It didn't matter that they weren't hers. The Clan was like kin, and 
their kits would be her kits too. The Sisters weren't the only cats to believe that a kit belonged to 
every cat. Had she forgotten that warriors had been helping to raise one another's kits for moons? She 
purred to herself. That would never change. 


A brisk wind swished through the branches above the camp. Fluffing out her fur, Squirrelflight 
headed toward the entrance. For the first time since she'd left the medicine den, her hind leg felt 
strong enough for her to make the journey to SkyClan's camp. She wanted to see how Moonlight was 
doing. Had the Sisters moved on? She quickened her pace. She hoped not. She wanted to speak to 
them one last time before they left. 

She waited at the border until she spotted Hawkwing, Sparrowpelt, and Blossomheart moving 
through the undergrowth a tree-length away. *Hawkwing." Her mew rang between the trees. 

Hawkwing turned his broad face toward her. He pricked his ears. *Hi, Squirrelflight." He hurried 
over while Sparrowpelt and Blossomheart sniffed at the roots of an alder. “It’s good to see you." His 
gaze flitted over her. “Are you well?" 

“Yes, thank you." 

“Г т sorry about your loss.” 

His reminder sent fresh tremors of grief through her heart. *She's in StarClan now." It was a 
reminder to herself as much as him. She s happy. “T ve come to see the Sisters.” 

"They've moved to a temporary camp on the edge of our territory." He nodded between the trees. 

Squirrelflight followed his gaze. “Do you think they'll mind if I visit? I want to see how 
Moonlight is doing." 

"Moonlight is dead." 

Squirrelflight's breath caught in her throat. *But Frecklewish and Fidgetflake were taking care of 
her." 

“They did their best.” Hawkwing's gaze was dark. “But she was too badly injured in the battle.” 
His tail twitched angrily. “Four Clans against a small group of loners. Pm just glad SkyClan wasn't 
involved." 

Shame washed Squirrelflight's pelt. She wanted to apologize for her Clan's part in the attack, but 
she knew Bramblestar had only done what he thought was right at the time. “I hope next time, 


ThunderClan won’t be involved either.” 

“Let's hope there isn't a next time.” Hawkwing looked toward his camp. “The Sisters will be 
moving on once Moonlight's kits are weaned. Violetshine is feeding them since none of the Sisters 
can. We'll probably be in our new camp by the time they leave." 

“Then the battle was for nothing." Squirrelflight blinked at him. “We could have waited until they 
left, and Moonlight would still be alive." Anger surged beneath her pelt. 

“You want to see them? Tempest and Snow are in our camp right now." 

“Pd like to talk to them before they go,” Squirrelflight told him. “I want to tell them I’m sorry for 
their loss. Moonlight will be missed." 

Hawkwing nodded her across the border. “You can speak to them there, and meet Moonlight's 
kits. They're growing fast." 

Squirrelflight blinked at him gratefully. “Thanks.” 

He called to Blossomheart and Sparrowpelt. “Carry on hunting,” he told them. “ГЇЇ catch up with 
you once Гуе seen Squirrelflight to the camp.” 

Blossomheart flicked her tail without looking up. She was stalking something between the 
brambles. 

Hawkwing led Squirrelflight toward the camp. 

“Do you think you'll like your new territory?" Squirrelflight asked. 

“Yes.” Hawkwing ducked under a low branch. “It’s fine land and there's good hunting there. I’m 
looking forward to getting out of the forest. I never could get used to living in the dark." He purred 
teasingly. “You and ShadowClan live like owls." 

“We’ll be warm in leaf-bare," she told him. 

“So will we." Hawkwing shook out his pelt. “That valley seems pretty sheltered. I can see why 
the Sisters chose 11.” 

They were nearing the camp now; SkyClan scents washed Squirrelflight's muzzle. She could 
smell the Sisters too. Snow's scent hung in the air at the entrance. Squirrelflight ducked through it 
after Hawkwing and padded into the SkyClan camp. 

Leafstar was sharing a rabbit with Harrybrook and Sandynose at the far end of the clearing. She 
looked up as Squirrelflight crossed the camp. “Welcome.” She got to her paws. 

“Hi.” Squirrelflight dipped her head politely as Leafstar reached her. *Hawkwing told me about 
Moonlight." 

“I was sorry that she died." Leafstar glanced toward the nursery. Violetshine was tugging old 
bedding outside while Rootkit and Needlekit chased after the trailing bracken. Snow was outside, 
curled around two gray, fluffy kits while Tempest washed a third gray kit, who mewled in complaint. 

“Tm not dirty!” the kit wailed indignantly. 

“You’ve got moss stains behind your ears," Tempest told him between laps. 

“Can I speak to Snow and Tempest?" Squirrelflight's heart quickened. 

“Of course." Leafstar nodded and turned back toward her meal. “Take as long as you like." 

Snow looked up as Squirrelflight neared, her eyes shining. The gray, fluffy kits clambered over 
her flank and charged away. They flung themselves onto the bedding Violetshine was dragging. 

“Don’t make a nuisance of yourselves!” Snow called after them. 

“It's okay!” Rootkit began to help Violetshine haul the bracken to the edge of the clearing, while 
Needlekit bounced around it, making faces at the two younger kits. 

“T want to play too!” The third kit ducked away from Tempest and raced toward the others. 

Tempest watched him go, her eyes shining. *He's going to be trouble," she mewed affectionately. 


“He”s a tom,” Snow joked as she got to her paws. She nodded to Squirrelflight. “Pm glad to see 
you looking so well.” 

“You too.” Squirrelflight felt a surge of fondness for the white she-cat. “Moonlight’s kits look 
happy here.” 

“They are,” Snow told her. “It’s good of Violetshine to feed them.” 

“But we want to leave as soon as we can, to make sure they don't become warriors,” Tempest 
mewed. 

Squirrelflight understood. Warriors had killed their leader. “I’m sorry to hear about Moonlight." 

Snow’s gaze glistened with sadness. “She died defending her kits,” she mewed. “It was an 
honorable way to die. Besides, we still see her.” 

Of course. Squirrelflight's pelt prickled. The Sisters could see the dead. “Do you talk to her?" 

“Yes.” Snow brightened. “She wanted me to thank you for saving her kits from the landslide. And 
for trying to save us from your Clanmates. It was a courageous thing to do.” 

“Tm sorry it turned into a battle.” Squirrelflight blinked at her earnestly. “I wish I could have 
persuaded the Clans to wait.” 

“You did what you could.” Tempest shrugged. “They have our land now, which is what they 
wanted. I just hope it brings them the peace that they’re looking for.” She looked doubtful. 

Snow shook her head. “Toms never want peace,” she sniffed. ^We're better off without them.” 

“Some toms like to fight,” Squirrelflight mewed quickly. “But Bramblestar never wanted it to go 
so far. He was outnumbered by the other Clans.” 

“At least you stood up for us,” Tempest mewed. 

“Even though you were outnumbered too.” There was an edge to Snow”s mew. “We know what 1t 
cost you.” Her gaze darkened. “Tree told us about Leafpool. We*re sorry she died. Our kits owe her 
their lives. Sunrise does too.” She glanced toward the kits, who were chasing Rootkit and Needlekit 
across the clearing. “Moonlight will always be grateful.” 

“Where will you go?” Squirrelflight asked. 

“Moonlight says we should head across the lake,” Snow told her. “Beyond the moors. We haven't 
been there before.” 

“Will she travel with you?” Squirrelflight wondered if dead cats could wander wherever they 
pleased. 

“For a while,” Snow murmured. “Until the kits are grown. She'll move on then.” 

“Where will she go?” Did the Sisters have their own version of StarClan? 

Snow shrugged. “Who knows?” Her gaze flitted past Squirrelflight. 

Tree was approaching. “Hi, Squirrelflight." He pricked his ears happily. “It’s good to see you 
looking well.” 

“Will you escort me to the border?” Squirrelflight nodded to the camp entrance. It was time she 
got back to her Clan. Sparkpelt was going to give Finchkit and Flamekit their first taste of mouse, and 
she wanted to be there to see ifthey enjoyed it. 

“Sure.” Tree whisked his tail. 

“Travel safely.” Squirrelflight dipped her head to Snow and Tempest. 

“Thanks for everything you did.” Snow blinked. 

Tempest shifted her paws. “You didn’t ask what we’d named the kits.” 

Squirrelflight pricked her ears. “What?” 

Snow purred. “Leaf, Squirrel, and Moon.” 

Squirrelflight’s pelt pricked self-consciously. “I’m honored." She wondered if Leafpool was 


watching. Did she know that the Sisters had named a kit after her? “Thank you.” She padded away, 
Tree at her side. 

As they ducked out of camp, he looked at her eagerly. “I’m so glad I didn’t have to deliver your 
message.” His pelt prickled as though remembering made him nervous. “I didn't think you'd make it. 
I've never spoken to a ghost that wasn't dead before.” 

“Do you see Moonlight now?” 

Tree fluffed out his fur. “I don’t want to,” he grunted. “She abandoned me in life. Why should I 
have to put up with her in death?” 

Squirrelflight heard bitterness in his mew. “But you're sorry she”s dead, right?” 

“Of course.” Tree followed the track around a swath of bracken. “Her kits deserve to have a 
mother, even 1f only for a short while.” 

"They'll have the Sisters.” 

“T guess." Tree stared along the trail. “But Rootkit and Needlekit will have a father and a mother 
for as long as they need them, and if they're in trouble, they'll always have a Clan to turn to." 

Squirrelflight purred. She was glad that Tree seemed to have finally learned to appreciate Clan 
life. "You're starting to sound like a warrior.” 





CHAPTER 30 


Se 


Squirrelflight gazed at the moon through the fluttering leaves of the Great Oak. In front of her, the 
Clans murmured softly to one another as their leaders took their places on the lowest branch. She 
remembered the last Gathering, where tempers had flared and the Clans had bayed like foxes for war 
against the Sisters. Now Moonlight was dead, and so was Leafpool; SkyClan had new territory, and 
the borders had been redrawn once again. Had those borders been worth two deaths? Of course not. 
She shook out her pelt. 

“How are Moonlight’s kits getting on?” she whispered to Hawkwing, who sat beside her with the 
other Clan deputies at the foot of the oak. 

"They're thriving.” Hawkwing’s eyes sparkled fondly. ““They”1l be ready to travel in a half- 
moon.” 

“I expect Violetshine will miss them.” 

“She will.” Hawkwing shifted his paws. “But she'll be glad to lose the Sisters. A new mother 
gets enough advice from her Clanmates. She doesn't need extra help from outsiders.” 

Squirrelflight pressed back a purr. She could imagine that the Sisters had strong opinions about 
raising kits, and they wouldn't be shy about offering them. “Have they helped you settle into their old 
territory?” 

“They showed us where we can find the best hunting and the freshest streams,” Hawkwing told 
her. 

“That was kind of them after what happened.” 

“SkyClan didn't attack their camp." Hawkwing's gaze flashed reproachfully toward the 
ShadowClan and WindClan warriors moving in the moonlight in front of him. “I think the Sisters 
respect us for it." 

Squirrelflight followed his gaze, searching for a glimmer of shame in the eyes of the warriors. 
They had killed a queen who'd been protecting the kits she'd just given birth to. Her pelt prickled 
with fresh anger. They'd behaved more like rogues than warriors. “Do you think the Clans will ever 
admit they were wrong to do what they did?" 

“T think it's best forgotten." Hawkwing swished his tail. “It can't be undone.” 

Dust showered from the branch above as Leafstar stepped forward and addressed the Clans. 
“SkyClan has moved to our new territory. We've almost finished building our camp. There is plenty 
of prey. We haven't seen any foxes or snakes inside the borders, but the Clan is on high alert while we 
adapt to the new landscape." 

“What about the Sisters?" Scorchfur called from among the ShadowClan cats. “Have they left 
yet?" 

Leafstar glared at the ShadowClan warrior. “How can they leave when you killed the mother of 
their newborn kits? Some cat must nurse them! We owe them that much after murdering their mother." 

“It wasn't murder!" Strikestone bristled. “It was a battle.” 

“A battle for land we could have had in a moon if we'd simply waited." Leafstar's hackles lifted. 

Tigerstar’s ears twitched. “The Sisters may stay on Clan territory until the kits are weaned,” he 
meowed, his gaze unreadable. “They no longer pose a threat to the Clans.” 

Squirrelflight flexed her claws. “They never did!” 


Tigerstar's gaze flashed toward her. “They managed to turn you against your Clan.” 

“That's not true!” Shock sparked beneath her pelt. 

“Then why did you warn them about our patrol?" he snapped. “We found you in their camp!” 

“I was worried about Moonlight’s kits," Squirrelflight shot back. “And with good reason!” 

“Squirrelflight would never betray her Clan!” Bramblestar's yowl took Squirrelflight by surprise. 
The ThunderClan leader stared at the gathered cats, his eyes glittering with indignation. Then he 
dipped his head. “But let’s not argue. Each Clan has enough territory to see them through leaf-bare. 
We’ve done what we set out to do. We may never agree on how we did it, but it’s in the past now. We 
can’t change what happened.” 

The Clans shifted uneasily as a soft murmur rippled through the crowd. Bramblestar went on, his 
fur smoothing. “Moonlight’s death was regrettable, but SkyClan has done what it can, offering shelter 
to her kits until they are strong enough to travel. One of our Clanmates died saving them, too. We 
should honor her. She died trying to save others, which is how she lived." 

Squirrelflight's throat tightened as the Clans fell silent. Puddleshine's eyes glistened with grief. 
Among the WindClan cats, she saw warriors dip their heads. 

"Leafpool will be remembered for as long as there are warriors to remember her." Willowshine's 
mew rang in the chilly night air. Murmurs of agreement rippled through the Clans. 

Kestrelflight lifted his muzzle. “She will find peace in StarClan.” 

“Leafpool.” Jayfeather called her name to the stars. 

"Leafpool." Kestrelflight echoed his mew. 

"Leafpool! Leafpool!” Her name spread through the Clans as others began to chant, their voices 
lifting like a breeze into the night sky. 

Squirrelflight shivered. She'd never realized how respected Leafpool was among the other Clans. 
Beside her, Crowfeather was staring ahead, grimly silent, as though fighting back emotion. She saw 
his pelt ripple and felt a twinge of pity. Had he loved Leafpool all this time? 

What did it matter if he had? She'd lived and died without him. As she pushed the thought away, 
Bramblestar shifted on the branch above. He nodded toward Squirrelflight. *My deputy has news to 
share from StarClan." 

“Your deputy?" Tigerstar pricked his ears. “What news can she possibly have from StarClan? 
She's not a medicine cat. The medicine cats say StarClan is still silent." 

“If you listen,” Bramblestar grunted, “she’ll tell you.” 

Squirrelflight got to her paws and gazed around the gathered cats. “When I was wounded after the 
landslide, I spent time 1n StarClan." Ears pricked and pelts prickled among the watching cats. She 
went on, trying to explain. “I was close to death. Close enough for StarClan to allow me into their 
hunting grounds." She tried not to think about how she'd had to argue for her place there after death. 
“I was reunited with kin and Clanmates, and I spoke with Leafpool. She is happy there, and though 
she will miss her life in the forest, she was ready to move on." Surprised murmuring sprung up among 
the older warriors, who exchanged glances. Squirrelflight went on. “Firestar gave me a message for 
the Clans. He said we must turn toward StarClan, not away." 

“But they don't always answer when we turn to them," Emberfoot complained. Around him the 
other WindClan warriors nodded. 

“That's true,” Mallownose added. 

Bramblestar flicked his tail. “StarClan knows what they're doing,” he meowed solemnly. “If they 
want us to turn toward them, then we will." 

“And what if they don't answer?" Shimmerpelt fluffed out her glossy pelt. 


Squirrelflight gazed around the Clans. “Perhaps we haven’t been hearing their answers.” She 
remembered how hard it had been trying to share with the living when she’d only been close to death. 
“We should try harder to listen.” 

Puddleshine nodded. “We will listen harder,” he promised. 

“StarClan will guide us,” Willowshine added. 


As the Gathering broke up and the Clans swished away through the long grass, Squirrelflight hung 
back, not wanting to leave yet. This was the first Gathering she’d been to without her sister. 
Bramblestar had stopped at the edge of the deserted clearing as Jayfeather, Thornclaw, and Lionblaze 
followed their Clanmates to the tree-bridge. “Are you coming?” he called to her. 

“I need a moment to remember Leafpool,” she told him. 

Bramblestar padded to join her. His pelt brushed hers as he stood beside her. The wind was 
chilly, and she leaned against him, relishing his warmth. 

“Гт glad we're not arguing anymore,” she breathed. 

“So am I.” He touched his muzzle to her ear. “I don’t know what I would have done if you'd died. 
I don't think I could've gone on without you.” 

“Of course you could.” She nuzzled his cheek. “Your Clan needs you. I know you would never let 
them down.” 

“Tm only strong because of you.” A purr throbbed in his throat. “Promise me we'll never argue 
like that again. That we'll always talk things out before they get too bad.” 

She looked into his eyes. “You have to trust me,” she murmured. “You must always know that you 
and ThunderClan are the most important things to me. I would never let you down.” 

“I know,” he breathed. “And Pm sorry I ever doubted you. Ever since you were an apprentice, 
you've challenged me. And it's always made me stronger. You've helped me see things in a different 
way." His gaze shone and she shivered, sensing his love like a breeze enfolding her. 

“Look.” He looked up. “Is that a new star?" 

She followed his gaze into the star-specked sky. A bright star glinted among the others. Her heart 
quickened. *Do you think it's her?" 

“Leafpool?” 

“Yes.” 

“I don't know, but I know she's watching over you." Bramblestar pressed closer. 

"She's watching over the whole Clan." A lump pressed in Squirrelflight's throat. “She always 
will." 


READ ON FOR AN EXCLUSIVE MANGA ADVENTURE ... 





CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ART BY 
JAMES L. BARRY 


1 CAN'T BELIEVE IT! OUR VERY FIRST 
TRAINING SESSION! LEAFPAW AND I ARE 
FINALLY APPRENTICES! 


BEING A WARRIOR ISN'T 
ONLY ABOUT HUNTING OR 
FIGHTING. 


IT'S JUST AS WAPORTANT 
THAT YOU KNOW EVERY INCH OF YOUR 
TERRITORY-ITS BORDERS, ITS PREY, 
EVEN ITS TREES. 


HOW TO TRACK PREY? 50 І CAN 
ADD TO THE FRESHKILL PILE? 


THAT'S WHAT 
WE'RE GOING TO START 
LEARNING TODAY. 


p— 


ES = ^ 


A GOOD MEDICINE CAT 
ALWAYS KNOWS JUST WHERE 
WHERE TO FIND THE PROPER TO LOOK. SO YOU'LL REMEMBER 
n WHEN І SHOW YOU, YES? 


T'LL DO MY BEST, 
CINUERPELT! 





HERE, SQUIRRELPAW, 
SEE THESE TRACKS? CAN YOU 
GUESS WHAT MADE THEM? 


THESE ARE RABBIT TRACKS. 
RABBITS MAKE EXCELLENT PREY. 
YOU CAN TELL HOW RECENT THEY 


OH! BRAMBLECLAW- 
YOU STARTLED US, 


A COUPLE OF TINY 
LITTLE KITS, TRYING TO LEARN 





THERE'S NO MAYBE 
ABOUT IT! WE WILL BE 
WARRIORS! 


DONT WORRY. IF YOU 
WORK REALLY HARD, ONE DAY YOULL 
BE FULL-FLEDGED WARRIORS, 
JUST LIKE ME. 


IT WASN'T THAT LONG AGO 


Оң, ы MY MEE : WHEN YOU WERE STILL A PAW 


10 LIKE TO DISCUSS OUR LAST 
BORDER PATROL. 


WE'LL CONTINUE OUR 
TRAINING SHORTLY, 





LEAPRAW! LISTEN! 


ZZ IMSS 


4 


A 








CAREFUL... 
STEADY...! 


TR Y N 


» Ase > 
RS r 


fi A , y” 
MANLY PV I LIA Д 
a (SS س‎ ae ^N NILI 


NNI 


ES 


> 





I REMENBER SOMETHING 

DUSTPELT SAID, BEFORE HANG ON-LET 

WE EVEN LEFT CAMP... ME TAKE A LOOK- | 
YES! SEE THAT? THAT 


Voy TWOLEGPLACE? I THINK WERE 
iod bile ела Teo LOSE TO 5! 
TASTING THE AIR... X» / [4 SUNNING ROCK 


THIS WAS OUR FIRST DAY AS 
APPRENTICES, AND I REALLY -- 
MADE A MESS OF IT. ГМ GOING 


- | HEY, IM IN JUST 
| AS MUCH TROUBLE AS 
YOU ARE. AT LEAST WE'LL 

GO THROUGH IT 





T T 
MAVE TO SPEND THÉ NIGHT REALLY WISH T'O 


TM HUNGRY TOO... 
CINDERPELT HASN'T SHOWN 
ME WHICH BERRES ARE SAFE 
TO EAT YET, OR ГР TRY TO 
FINO SOME. 


WE'D BETTER JUST FIND 
A HOLLOW IN A TREE AND 
GET COMFORTABLE. 


THAT'S 
SQUIRRELPAW! У DUSTPELT? 


WHEN YOU DIDN'T COME RIGHT 
BACK-THE WAY YOU WERE SUPPOSED 
TO-WE GOT WORRIED SOMETHING 
MIGHT HAVE GONE WRONG. 


TWO BRAND-NEW 
APPRENTICES, ALONE IN THE 
WOODS. ANYTHING COULD HAVE 
HAPPENED. 


WITH MY SISTER 
BESIDE ME, T KNEW 
WE'D BE ALL RIGHT. 





IT DOESN'T TAKE US LONG TO TELL THE 
WARRIORS WHAT WE'VE BEEN THROUGH. AND YOU'LL KEEP WORKING 


SO EMBARRASSING. AS A TEAM, BACK AT CAMP... 


IM PROUD OF YOU TWO 
FOR KEEPING YOUR HEADS 
AND STICKING TOGETHER. 


WHILE YOU'RE PICKING 
TICKS OFF THE ELDERS' PELTS, 
AND HELPING CLEAN OUT 


THAT SHOULD DISCOURAGE 
YOU FROM RUNNING OFF LIKE 














HEY... LISTEN. I FEEL 
LIKE ГМ TO BLAME FOR TEASING YOU, DUSTPELT'S RIGHT- 
WHAT HAPPENED. IT WASN'T THAT LONG AGO THAT 
I WAS AN APPRENTICE. 

















AFTER THAT RABBIT, TOO, 
TRYING TO PROVE MYSELF 


PAD > 


WANT TO HELP US 
WITH TICK DUTY? 





SO SORRY! ГМ... 
NEEDED ON A BORDER 





Excerpt from Bravelands #1: Broken Pride 


HEED THE CALL OF THE WILD... 
A NEW ERIN HUNTER ADVENTURE BEGINS 


ERIN HUNTER 





For generations, the animals of the African plains have been 
ruled by the code of the wild: only kill to survive. But when an 
unthinkable act of betrayal sharters the peace, a young lion, a 
baboon, and an elephant calf will be thrust together in an epic 
battle for survival. The fragile balance between predators and 


prey now rests in the paws of these unlikely heroes. . . . 


YAYAYA 


AVAUKURVAYKAYUKA 





CHAPTER ONE 


Swiftcub pounced after the vultures shadow, but it flitted away too quickly to follow. Breathing 
hard, he pranced back to his pride. / saw that bird off our territory, he thought, delighted. No rot- 
eater 5 going to come near Gallantpride while I'm around! 

The pride needed him to defend it, Swiftcub thought, picking up his paws and strutting around his 
family. Why, right now they were all half asleep, dozing and basking in the shade of the acacia trees. 
The most energetic thing the other lions were doing was lifting their heads to groom their nearest 
neighbors, or their own paws. They had no idea of the threat Swiftcub had just banished. 

I might be only a few moons old, but my father is the strongest, bravest lion in Bravelands. And 
I'm going to be just like him! 

“Swiftcub!” 

The gentle but commanding voice snapped him out of his dreams of glory. He came to a halt, 
turning and flicking his ears at the regal lioness who stood over him. 

“Mother,” he said, shifting on his paws. 

“Why are you shouting at vultures?" Swift scolded him fondly, licking at his ears. “They’re 
nothing but scavengers. Come on, you and your sister can play later. Right now you're supposed to be 
practicing hunting. And if you're going to catch anything, you'll need to keep your eyes on the prey, 
not on the sky!” 

"Sorry, Mother." Guiltily he padded after her as she led him through the dry grass, her tail 
swishing. The ground rose gently, and Swiftcub had to trot to keep up. The grasses tickled his nose, 
and he was so focused on trying not to sneeze, he almost bumped into his mother's haunches as she 
crouched. 

“Oops,” he growled. 

Valor shot him a glare. His older sister was hunched a little to the left of their mother, fully 
focused on their hunting practice. Valor’s sleek body was low to the ground, her muscles tense; as she 
moved one paw forward with the utmost caution, Swiftcub tried to copy her, though 1t was hard to 
keep up on his much shorter legs. One creeping pace, then two. Then another. 

I'm being very quiet, just like Valor. I'm going to be a great hunter. He slunk up alongside his 
mother, who remained quite still. 

“There, Swiftcub,” she murmured. “Do you see the burrows?” 

He did, now. Ahead of the three lions, the ground rose up even higher, into a bare, sandy mound 
dotted with small shadowy holes. As Swiftcub watched, a small nose and whiskers poked out, testing 
the air. The meerkat emerged completely, stood up on its hind legs, and stared around. Satisfied, it 
stuck out a pink tongue and began to groom its chest, as more meerkats appeared beyond it. Growing 
in confidence, they scurried farther away from their burrows. 

“Careful now,” rumbled Swift. “They're very quick. Go!” 

Swiftcub sprang forward, his little paws bounding over the ground. Still, he wasn’t fast enough to 
outpace Valor, who was far ahead of him already. A stab of disappointment spoiled his excitement, 
and suddenly it was even harder to run fast, but he ran grimly after his sister. 

The startled meerkats were already doubling back into their holes. Stubby tails flicked and 
vanished; the bigger leader, his round dark eyes glaring at the oncoming lions, was last to twist and 
dash underground. Valor’s jaws snapped at his tail, just missing. 

“Sky and stone!” the bigger cub swore, coming to a halt in a cloud of dust. She shook her head 


furiously and licked her jaws. “I nearly had it!” 

A rumble of laughter made Swiftcub turn. His father, Gallant, stood watching them. Swiftcub 
couldn't help but feel the usual twinge of awe mixed in with his delight. Black-maned and huge, his 
sleek fur glowing golden in the sun, Gallant would have been intimidating if Swiftcub hadn’t known 
and loved him so well. Swift rose to her paws and greeted the great lion affectionately, rubbing his 
maned neck with her head. 

“It was a good attempt, Valor,” Gallant reassured his daughter. “What Swift said 1s true: meerkats 
are very hard to catch. You were so close—one day you'll be as fine a hunter as your mother.” He 
nuzzled Swift and licked her neck. 

“I wasn't anywhere near it,” grumbled Swiftcub. “ГІ never be as fast as Valor.” 

“Oh, you will,” said Gallant. “Don’t forget, Valor’s a whole year older than you, my son. You're 
getting bigger and faster every day. Be patient!” He stepped closer, leaning in so his great tawny 
muzzle brushed Swiftcub’s own. “That's the secret to stalking, too. Learn patience, and one day you 
too will be a very fine hunter.” 

“I hope so,” said Swiftcub meekly. 

Gallant nuzzled him. “Don’t doubt yourself, my cub. You’re going to be a great lion and the best 
kind of leader: one who keeps his own pride safe and content, but puts fear into the heart of his 
strongest enemy!” 

That does sound good! Feeling much better, Swiftcub nodded. Gallant nipped affectionately at the 
tufty fur on top of his head and padded toward Valor. 

Swiftcub watched him proudly. He's right, of course. Father knows everything! And I will be a 
great hunter, I will. And a brave, strong leader— 

A tiny movement caught his eye, a scuttling shadow in his father’s path. 

A scorpion! 

Barely pausing to think, Swiftcub sprang, bowling between his father’s paws and almost tripping 
him. He skidded to a halt right in front of Gallant, snarling at the small sand-yellow scorpion. It 
paused, curling up its barbed tail and raising its pincers in threat. 

“No, Swiftcub!” cried his father. 

Swiftcub swiped his paw sideways at the creature, catching its plated shell and sending it flying 
into the long grass. 

All four lions watched the grass, holding their breath, waiting for a furious scorpion to reemerge. 
But there was no stir of movement. It must have fled. Swiftcub sat back, his heart suddenly banging 
against his ribs. 

“Skies above!” Gallant laughed. Valor gaped, and Swift dragged her cub into her paws and began 
to lick him roughly. 

“Mother . . ." he protested. 

“Honestly, Swiftcub!” she scolded him as her tongue swept across his face. “Your father might 
have gotten a nasty sting from that creature—but you could have been killed!” 

"You're such an idiot, little brother,” sighed Valor, but there was admiration in her eyes. 

Gallant and Swift exchanged proud looks. “Swift,” growled Gallant, “I do believe the time has 
come to give our cub his true name.” 

Swift nodded, her eyes shining. “Now that we know what kind of lion he is, I think you're right.” 

Gallant turned toward the acacia trees, his tail lashing, and gave a resounding roar. 

It always amazed Swiftcub that the pride could be lying half asleep one moment and alert the very 
next. Almost before Gallant had finished roaring his summons, there was a rustle of grass, a crunch of 


paws on dry earth, and the rest of Gallantpride appeared, ears pricked and eyes bright with curiosity. 
Gallant huffed in greeting, and the twenty lionesses and young lions of his pride spread out in a circle 
around him, watching and listening intently. 

Gallant looked down again at Swiftcub, who blinked and glanced away, suddenly rather shy. 
“Crouch down," murmured the great lion. 

When he obeyed, Swiftcub felt his father's huge paw rest on his head. 

“Henceforth,” declared Gallant, “this cub of mine will no longer be known as Swiftcub. He faced 
a dangerous foe without hesitation and protected his pride. His name, now and forever, is Fearless 
Gallantpride." 

It was done so quickly, Swiftcub felt dizzy with astonishment. J have my name! I'm Fearless. 
Fearless Gallantpride! 

All around him, his whole family echoed his name, roaring their approval. Their deep cries 
resonated across the grasslands. 

"Fearless Gallantpride!” 

“Welcome, Fearless, son of Gallant!” 


About the Author 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a fascination with the ferocity ofthe natural world. 
In addition to having great respect for nature in all its forms, Erin enjoys creating rich mythical 
explanations for animal behavior. She is also the author of the Seekers, Survivors, and Bravelands 
series. 


Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at hc.com. 


Books by Erin Hunter 


АКО 


SUPER EDITIONS 


Firestar s Quest 
Bluestar 5 Prophecy 
SkyClan s Destiny 
Crookedstar 5 Promise 
Yellowfang s Secret 
Tallstar s Revenge 
Bramblestar 5 Storm 
Moth Flights Vision 
Hawkwing 5 Journey 
Tigerheart s Shadow 
Crowfeather 5 Trial 


Back Ads 


Heed the call of the wild in 


this action-packed series from 


Erin Hunter. 


2 #1: Broken Pride 

J #2: Code of Honor 
) #3: Blood and Bone 
2 #4: Shifting Shadows 


Also available as 


downloadable audios! 
ERIN HUNTER > 


HARPER 


www.warriorcats.com/bravelands * www.shelfstuff.com 





A new WARRIORS arc! 
WARRIORS: THE BROKEN CODE 


Wall THAW À 


` 


“ERIN HUNTER 7 


FV NEW TORK TIMES BUGTEFLLINO AUTOR 


Have you read them all? 


2 #1: Lost Stars 


2 #2: The Silent Thaw 
HARPER 


WWW.Wäarriorcats.com * ww w.shelfstuff.com 





How many have you read? 


Dawn of the Clans 
) #1: The Sun Trail 
) #2: Thunder Rising 
) #3: The First Battle 
) #4: The Blazing Star 
) #5: A Forest Divided 
) #6: Pach of Stars 


The Prophecies Begin 
) #1: Into the Wild 
#2: Fire and Ice 
) #3: Forest of Secrets 
#4: Rising Storm 
) #5: A Dangerous Path 
) #6: The Darkest Hour 


The New Prophecy 
) #1: Midnight 
) #2: Moonrise 
) #3: Dawn 
) #4: Starlight 
) #5: Twilight 


) #6: Sunset 


Power of Three 
) #1: The Sight 
) #2: Dark River 
) 23: Ourcast 
) #4: Eclipse 
) #5: Long Shadows 


) #6: Sunrisc 


Omen of the Stars 
) #1: The Fourth Apprentice 
) #2: Fading Echoes 
) #3: Night Whispers 
#4: Sign of the Moon 
) #5: The Forgotten Warrior 
) #6: The Last Hope 


A Vision of Shadows 
) #1: The Apprentice's Quest 
) 22: Thunder and Shadow 
) #3: Shattered Sky 
) $4: Darkest Night 
) $5: River of Firc 


) #6: The Raging Storm 


Select titles also available as audiobooks! 


HARPER 


www.warriorcats.com * www.shelfstuff.com 





SUPER EDITIONS 


ANDA 
WARKK RS, ) Firestar's Quest ) Bramblestar's Storm 
p > Bluestars Prophecy ) Moth Flights Vision 


) SkvClan's Destiny ) Hawkwing's Journey 


ліла 


P ) Crookedsrar's Promise ) Tigerheart’s Shadow 
E. 
) Yellowfang Secret ) Crowfeather's Trial 


) Тасаг Revenge ) Squirrelflight’s Hope 


GUIDES FULL-COLOR MANGA 


Ej Li = ) sockets of the Clans MWHIORS, 
) Cats of the Clans 


WARRIOR Ji, 5 pes Ac c € 
Y RNK 9 ) Code of the Clans | E4 Н Adventur 


) Ravenpaw's Path 

= ) Battles of the Clans 

| oa! v. > he Cl cg u ) SkyClan and the Stranger 
inter the Clans 


> The Ultimare Guide 


em 
5 зе mt. 
т: $ 


The Untold Stories Shadows ofthe Clans Path ofa Warrior 
> Hollyleafs Story ) Mapleshade's Vengeance €) Redtail's Debr 
) Mistvstar's Omen > Goosefcather's Curse ) Tawnypelt’s Clan 


) Cloudstar's Journey ) Ravenpaw's Farewell ) Shadowsrar's Life 


Tales from the Clans Legends of the Clans 
) Tigerclaw's Fury ) Spottedleafs Heart 
31 cafpool s Wish > Pinestar’s Choice 


) Dovewing's Silence > Thunderstars Echo 


HARPER 


^ m De 1 


www.warriorcats.com e www.shelfstuff.com 





Don’t miss these other Erin Hunter series! 


SURVIVORS 


Survivors ШООГО Survivors: 

) #1; The Empty City S АД ORS The Gathering Darkness 
) #2: A Hidden Enemy / ) #1: A Pack Divided 

) #3: Darkness Falls EN 0 #2: Dead of Night 

) #4: The Broken Path A ) #3: Into the Shadows 

) #5: The Endless Lake > B O #4: Red Moon Rising 

) #6: Storm of Dogs IES ) #5: The Exile's Journey 

) #6: The Final Battle 


Seckers Seekers: Return to the Wild 
) #1: The Quest Begins . ^к ) #1: Island of Shadows 
) #2: Great Bear Lake E , ) #2: The Melting Sea 
) #3: Smoke Mountain ) #3: River of Lost Bears 
) $4: The Last Wilderness ) #4: Forest of Wolves 
) #5: Fire in the Sky ) #5: The Burning Horizon 
) #6: Spirits in the Stars ) $6: The Longest Day 


HARPER 


m—— 
www.shelfstuff.com 


www.warriorcats.com/survivors * Www.warr iorcats.com/seekers 





Copyright 


WARRIORS SUPER EDITION: SQUIRRELFLIGHT’S HOPE. Copyright © 2019 by Working Partners Limited. All rights reserved 
under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the 
nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, 
transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in 
any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without the express written permission 
of HarperCollins e-books. 


www.harpercollinschildrens.com 


Series created by Working Partners Limited 
Map art © 2019 by Dave Stevenson 
Interior art © 2019 by Owen Richardson 


Cover art ©2019 by Owen Richardson 
Series cover design by Ellice M. Lee 





Library of Congress Control Number: 2019939329 
Digital Edition SEPTEMBER 2019 ISBN: 978-0-06-269883-4 
Print ISBN: 978-0-06-269880-3 (trade bdg.) 

ISBN 978-0-06-269881-0 (lib. bdg.) 


у | 


19 20 21 22 23 PC/LSCH 10987654321 


^, 
eo 


FIRST EDITION 


About the Publisher 


Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 


www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd 
Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower 
22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor 
Toronto, Ontario, M5H 4E3 


www.harpercollins.ca 


India 
HarperCollins India 
А 75, Sector 57 
Noida 
Uttar Pradesh 201 301 


www.harpercollins.co.in 


New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 
Rosedale 0632 
Auckland, New Zealand 


www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
1 London Bridge Street 
London SE1 9GF, UK 


www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
195 Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 


www.harpercollins.com 


