

PROLOGUE 


The dark moor rose to meet the night-black sky. 
Starry pelts sparked like flint against the trembling 
heather. Grass streamed around the paws of 
WindClan’s former warriors as they sat, whiskers stiff, 
unbowed by the wind. 


“Welcome to StarClan, Heatherstar.” A sleek tom 
with starshine glowing in his pelt faced the young 
WindClan leader. “I have watched you serve your 
Clanmates with bravery and loyalty as their deputy, 
and now I am honored to give you a life as their 
leader.” 

Heatherstar dipped her head. “Thank you, 
Thrushpelt.” 

“I died a medicine cat,” the tom reminded her. “But 
before that, I was a warrior. I never hesitated to fight 
for what I knew to be right, however hard that 
seemed. I give you your eighth life and, with it, the 
courage to trust your instincts. When your heart 
speaks, listen.” Leaning forward, he touched his nose 
to Heatherstar’s head. 

As the new life pulsed through her, the gray cat 
groaned through clenched jaws. 

Thrushpelt stepped back and glanced over his 
shoulder. “Daisytail?” 

A light brown she-cat with ginger patches padded 
from among her Clanmates, her fur blazing with silver 
light. “Do you know me?” she gently asked 
Heatherstar. 


Heatherstar lifted her head and drew in a 
shuddering breath. “Yes! I have heard your name 
many times. You refused to let your kits fight against 
ShadowClan, and your insistence was so strong, it 
became part of the Clan code.” 

Daisytail nodded. “From then on, no kit was allowed 
to train for battle before they were six moons old. I 
would have taken on each of those ShadowClan 
warriors myself before I let my little ones suffer a 
single blow. Even though you do not have kits of your 
own, Heatherstar, I want you to share the strength of 
my conviction. For your ninth life I give you the force 
of a mother’s love. Use it to protect your Clan.” She 
pressed her muzzle to Heatherstar’s head. “It is 
stronger than the wind and outlasts life itself.” 

Heatherstar rocked as a spasm gripped her. She 
lurched forward and stumbled onto her knees. 

A mottled gray-brown tom stepped forward. 
“Heatherstar?” He leaned down to the new WindClan 
leader. “Are you okay?” 

Daisytail flicked her tail. “She is strong, Hawkheart. 
I can feel it.” 

Heatherstar straightened up. “I’m fine,” she told the 


tom. Trembling, she faced StarClan. “I promise that I 
will make WindClan a force to be respected among all 
the Clans of the forest. I will lead them well through 
my nine lives. And when I join you, I hope you will 
welcome me with pride at what I have achieved.” 

Murmurs of approval rose among the ranks of starry 
pelts. 

“Remember,” Daisytail called, “there is no power 
stronger than love!” As she spoke, StarClan blurred 
and began to spiral upward like a comet’s tail, into the 
midnight sky. 

“We should return to the Moonstone,” Hawkheart 
murmured in Heatherstar’s ear. 

Heatherstar shook her head. “I’m not ready to leave 
StarClan.” 

Hawkheart watched the glimmering pelts fade. “But 
they’ve gone.” 

“Their scent remains.” Heatherstar swished her tail 
stubbornly. 

“Then PI meet you at Mothermouth when you 
wake.” Turning, Hawkheart padded down the slope, 
his pelt melting into the shadows until he was hardly 
visible against the heather. “The Clan will be waiting 


for us at home.” 

“I won’t be long.” MHeatherstar watched the 
medicine cat vanish. Still unsteady, she climbed the 
moor, moving slowly at first but growing stronger with 
each step as the new lives throbbed beneath her fur. 
She broke into a run, charging across the windswept 
grass, her whiskers flattened against her face. She 
stopped suddenly as the moor dropped away. 
Balancing at the edge of the sandy precipice, 
Heatherstar gazed across woods and meadows 
stretching into darkness. 

Paw steps sounded behind her. “Why do you linger 
here?” The mew was soft. 

Heatherstar turned, blinking. The fading pelt of an 
ancient warrior shimmered in front of her. “I wanted to 
breathe the scents of StarClan for a while longer,” she 
confessed. “Who... who are you?” 

“I am Mothflight.” The she-cat’s green eyes shone. 
Behind her, the heather showed through her coat. Her 
pelt, once white, now glowed dimly, more starlight than 
fur. 

“Mothflight?” Heatherstar’s eyes widened. “You 
were WindClan’s first medicine cat!” 


Mothflight nodded. 

“You discovered the Moonstone,” Heatherstar 
whispered. “And now you’ve come to see me?” 

“I watched your naming ceremony,” Mothflight told 
her. “And waited for the others to leave so that I could 
speak with you alone.” 

“Do you have a prophecy for me?” Heatherstar 
curled her claws excitedly into the peaty soil. 

“Not a prophecy, no. A warning, perhaps.” 
Mothflight’s voice was hardly more than a breath on 
the wind. 

Heatherstar leaned closer, ears pricking. 

“Listen carefully, Heatherstar,’ Mothflight insisted. 
“Whatever happens, do not demand the loyalty of your 
Clan.” 

Heatherstar lifted her head in surprise. “Of course 
PI demand it! I’ve earned it.” 

“Warriors must decide for themselves where their 
loyalty lies.” 

“It should lie with the Clan and with me,” 
Heatherstar hissed. 

“But you cannot test it.” 

Heatherstar bristled. “I’m their leader.” 


Mothflight’s tail twitched. “You are young. Wisdom 
will come with experience. Until then, let my words 
guide you.” 

Heatherstar snorted. “7 will make the decisions for 
my Clan.” 

“Of course,” Mothflight soothed. “But you don’t yet 
realize that sometimes warriors must leave what they 
love before they understand what they truly value.” 

“Leave what they /ove?” Heatherstar echoed. “Do 
you mean their Clan?” 

Mothflight stared back silently. 

“Warriors who leave their Clan betray their Clan,” 
Heatherstar spat. “My Clan will be loyal.” 

“There will be a warrior whose loyalty to WindClan 
will waver,’ Mothflight told her. “A cat who will have 
to seek far beyond the confines of your territory to 
discover where his heart truly lies.” 

Heatherstar curled her lip. “Are you telling me that 
one of my Clan will turn rogue?” 

Mothflight blinked, her eyes like green stars. “He 
will stray, and you must let him, even if you fear he will 
never return. It is the only way he will discover where 
he truly belongs.” 





“Be careful, Tallkit!” 

Tallkit paused when he heard Palebird’s anxious 
call. “I’ll be okay!” he mewed. He glanced back at the 
nursery. The warm, milky scent of his mother drifted 
from the entrance. 


Inside the thick gorse den, Brackenwing soothed 
her. “Barkkit and Shrewkit will watch out for him, I 
promise.” 

Tallkit shivered. This was only his second sunrise 
outside the nursery, and his paws pricked with 
excitement. A light dusting of snow had turned the 
camp white, frosting the tussocky grass and thick 
heather walls. The freezing air stung his nose. He 
fluffed up his fur. 

Barkkit pawed at the white tip of Tallkit’s black tail. 
“You look like you’re turning to ice as well.” 

Tallkit flicked his tail away, purring with amusement. 
His white muzzle and white paws would just make it 
easier for him to hide in the snow! 

Shrewkit bounced past him. “Let’s show him the 
Hunting Stones, Barkkit!”” 

Tallkit stared at his denmates. They were three 
moons older and twice his size, but he was determined 
to keep up with them. “I thought we were going to 
climb Tallrock again,” he protested. “I know I'll make 
it this time.” His eyes stung in the bright, cold air. He’d 
only opened them for the first time a few sunrises ago 
and they were still slowly adjusting to sunlight after the 


cozy gloom of the nursery. 

He blinked up at the high slab of granite where 
Barkkit had told him Heatherstar stood to address the 
Clan. It loomed, jagged and dark, from a wide, sandy 
crater, which encircled it like an empty pool. 

The Meeting Hollow. 

Tallkit gazed into it wide-eyed. At the bottom, 
Heatherstar, Hawkheart, and Reedfeather huddled 
beside the stone, their breath billowing as they spoke. 

Hawkheart looked up and caught Tallkit’s eye over 
the rim. “Our youngest kit is exploring again,” he 
murmured. 

Tallkit shifted his paws. The dark glint in the 
medicine cat’s gaze made him nervous. Palebird had 
warned him to stay away from the gray-brown tom; he 
had little patience for kits. 

“Stay under cover, Tallkit.” Hawkheart narrowed his 
eyes. “We don’t want you attracting buzzards to the 
camp.” 

“Buzzards?” Tallkit’s heart lurched. 

“Kits are their favorite prey,’ Hawkheart warned. 
“And they can spot you from Highstones.” 

Reedfeather’s whiskers twitched. “Don’t scare the 


poor kit.” There was a purr in his throat as he nodded 
to Shrewkit, who had popped up beside Tallkit. “What 
are you showing him today?” 

Shrewkit flicked his tail. “The Hunting Stones.” 

Heatherstar shook frost from her thick gray pelt. 
“Be careful,” she cautioned. “The stones will be icy.” 

“Don’t come mewling to me if you sprain a paw,” 
Hawkheart called. 

“Come,” the WindClan leader urged her deputy and 
medicine cat. “It’s too cold to sit here. Let’s go to my 
den.” 

As Heatherstar hopped out of the Meeting Hollow, 
Hawkheart and Reedfeather followed, their tails 
twitching as they ducked into the shelter of the 
leader’s den beneath a gorse bush at the far end of the 
clearing. 

“Can we play sliding in the hollow?” Barkkit 
mewed. 

“I want to go to the Hunting Stones,’ Shrewkit 
insisted. He scraped up a pawful of snow and flung it 
at Barkkit. The wind snatched the flakes and tossed 
them back into his whiskers. 

As he sneezed, Barkkit purred with amusement. 


“Wow! You’re scary!” 

‘Pl show you!” Shrewkit hurled himself at his 
brother and sent him rolling over the grass. 

Tallkit backed away as ther dark brown pelts 
scuffed the snow. /t must be fun to have a littermate 
to play fight with. If only Finchkit hadn t died. 

Shrewkit leaped free of his brother’s grip. “Look at 
Tallkit!” he teased. “He’s blinking like he’s just opened 
his eyes!” 

Tallkit bristled. “I’m nearly half a moon old and 
Sandgorse says I opened my eyes quicker than any kit 
in the nursery.” He glared at his denmates. “I’m just 
not used to snow.” The ground sparkled, and the 
heather that formed the camp boundary—so dark 
against the sky yesterday—now glittered brightly with 
frost. What would the moor look like when the heavy 
snows came and the world turned completely white? 
Palebird had warned Tallkit that leaf-bare hit WindClan 
hardest of all the Clans, because the moor touched the 
sky. But this also made them more special, and safer. 

“We’re closer to Silverpelt than any Clan,” she’d 
told him as she snuggled him in their mossy nest. 
“Which means that StarClan watches us more 


closely.” 

Tallkit heard worry in her mew. “Is that why we 
tunnel under the moor?” he asked. “To hide from the 
dead warriors in other Clans?” 

“Don’t be silly.” Palebird had licked his ear. “We 
tunnel because we’re stronger and cleverer than all the 
other Clans together.” Her washing became brisker, 
silencing him. 

‘I’m going to the Hunting Stones!” Shrewkit 
charged across the grass. 

Barkkit raced after him. “What about sliding in the 
hollow?” 

“There’s not enough snow for real sliding.” Shrewkit 
veered away from Tallrock. 

“You’re just scared.” Barkkit swerved after his 
brother, sending a shower of frozen flakes up from his 
paws. 

“Am not!” Shrewkit called back. 

Tallkit followed, not caring where they chose to play. 
It felt great to be outside, the grass cold on his pads as 
he raced across it. 

“Watch out!” 

Tallkit skidded to a halt as Cloudrunner yowled at 


him. The pale gray tom was crossing his path with 
Aspenfall. The warriors were heading to the prey 
heap, carrying fresh-kill. Wind-ruffled from the moor, 
they’d brought food for the Clan. Tallkit gazed at them, 
impressed by their long legs and wiry tails. They were 
moor runners, which meant they served WindClan by 
hunting and patroling the borders, and Tallkit could 
smell heather on their pelts. 

In the brittle patch of bracken where the tunnelers 
made their nests, Woollytail looked up from washing 
his mud-streaked belly. Like all the cats who served 
the Clan by carving out new tunnels and shoring up old 
ones far beneath the moor, his pelt was permanently 
stained with sand and dust. He nodded at the rabbit 
swinging from Cloudrunner’s jaws. “Did you catch that 
on the high-moor?” 

“Yes.” At the prey heap, Cloudrunner kicked away 
a stale mouse left from the previous day’s hunt and 
dropped his catch. “You’re right, as usual, Woollytail.” 

Tallkit blinked at Woollytail. “How did you know?” 

“I can smell the sand in its fur.” Woollytail flicked 
his tail and returned to washing. 

Hickorynose, his tunnelmate, shifted on the bracken 


beside him. “You only find sand tunnels on the high- 
moor.” The brown tom lifted a forepaw and rubbed dirt 
from his ear. “Not like the gorge tunnel. That’ all soil 
and grit. But it'll open the way to fresh prey beside the 
river.” 

Cloudrunner snorted. “If you ever find a way to stop 
the cave-ins.” 

Aspenfall laid a vole beside the rabbit. “The grit 
makes it unstable. It’s not safe to tunnel there.” 

Woollytail narrowed his eyes. “It is if you know 
what you’re doing.” 

Tallkit glanced from tunneler to moor runner as an 
awkward silence fell between them. 

Heatherstar cut through it. She padded from her den 
and followed the rim of the Meeting Hollow. Passing 
the grass nests of the moor runners, she brushed by 
Cloudrunner and stopped beside the bracken patch. 
“Will the new tunnels be ready before newleaf, 
Woollytail?” 

Woollytail sniffed. “It takes time to shore up the 
roofs.” 

Heatherstar flicked her tail. “I’m sure you'll find a 
way.” She turned back to the prey heap and sniffed 


Cloudrunner’s rabbit. 

Does Heatherstar ever patrol underground? 
Tallkit watched the WindClan leader curiously. She’d 
trained as a moor runner, but surely as leader, she 
needed to understand what it was like to be a tunneler 
too. 

“Hurry up, Tallkit!”’ Barkkit called. 

Tallkit jerked his attention away and scurried after 
his denmates. Barkkit and Shrewkit were already at 
the Hunting Stones. The smooth, low rocks huddled 
like rabbits in the grass near the elders’ den. Sprigs of 
heather poked between them and moss clumped at 
their base. Shrewkit leaped onto the highest stone and 
crowed down at Barkkit. “I am leader of the Hunting 
Stones!” 

Barkkit scrambled onto the boulder beside him. “I’m 
deputy!” 

Tallkit reached the rocks and waded through the 
thick moss at the bottom. Reaching up with his 
forepaws, he kicked out with his hind legs and tried to 
jump up beside Barkkit. His claws slithered on the 
frosty stone and he slid back into the chilly moss. 

“Hey, Wormkit!”” Shrewkit called down. “Why don’t 


you tunnel underneath? You’re not supposed to be a 
moor runner like us!” 

Tallkit’s pelt pricked with confusion. “I’m not 
Wormkit. Pm Za//kit!” 

“You’re going to spend your life wriggling 
underground like a worm, aren’t you?” Shrewkit 
taunted. “That’s where you should be now—under the 
rocks, not on them.” 

Tallkit frowned. He knew that his mother and father 
were tunnelers, but did that really mean he couldn’t 
play on the Hunting Stones? 

Barkkit reached down with his forepaw. “Ignore him 
and try again, Tallkit!” he mewed. 

Tallkit leaped for his denmate’s paw and felt it curl 
beneath his own. He churned his hind legs while 
Barkkit heaved. Scrabbling against the stone, he flung 
himself onto the rock. “Thanks!” He sat up beside 
Barkkit, his pads stinging on the frozen rock. 

He gazed across the camp. Sun shone from a crisp, 
blue sky, thawing the grassy hummocks, which bulged 
like clumped fur across the frosty clearmg. The 
tunnelers’ bracken patch glowed orange while the long 
grass enclosing the moor runners’ nests drooped lower 


as the frost slowly loosened its grip. 

A white face appeared at the entrance of the elders’ 
den. “You young’ uns are up early.” Whiteberry slid out 
and sat gingerly on the cold grass a tail-length from the 
Hunting Stones. 

Lilywhisker limped after him and stood tasting the 
air. She was the youngest in the elders’ den, far 
younger than Whiteberry, Flamepelt, and Filailfoot. 
She’d retired to the den after a tunnel collapse had 
smashed her hind leg and left it useless. “Do you want 
to come onto the moor?” she asked Whiteberry. 

The white elder looked at her. “So long as you don’t 
try to get me down any rabbit holes.” 

“Not after last time,’ Lilywhisker purred. “I’ve 
never seen a cat chased out of a tunnel by a rabbit.” 

Whiteberry shifted his paws. “I thought it was a 
fox.” 

“Your sense of smell must be worn out.” Flicking 
her tail teasingly, Lilywhisker hopped toward the camp 
entrance. Her lifeless hind leg left a trail through the 
shallow snow. 

Whiteberry heaved himself to his paws and 
followed. “Yours will wear out too after a few more 


moons sharing a den with Flailfoot. He’s got fox- 
breath.” 

“Its not that bad,’ Lilywhisker called over her 
shoulder. 

“Do you want to swap nests?” Whiteberry caught 
up to her. “Last night he snored right in my muzzle. I 
dreamed Id fallen into a badger den.” 

As they disappeared into the heather tunnel, a pale 
ginger tom nosed his way past them, heading into 
camp. Sandgorse! Tallkit lifted his tail as his father 
trotted into the clearing. 

The ginger warrior’s pelt was speckled with earth. 
‘Tve left a stack of sticks at the tunnel entrance,” he 
called to Woollytail. 

The gray-and-white tunneler lifted his nose. 
“Great!” he meowed. “We can start shoring up the 
roof this afternoon.” 

“You'll have to manage without me.” Sandgorse 
headed toward the Hunting Stones. “Tallkit! I want to 
show you something.” 

Tallkit blinked excitedly at his father. “What is it?” 
Was Sandgorse going to show him the moor? Tallkit 
slid off the rock and scrambled over the tussocky 


grass. He skidded to a halt at Sandgorse’s paws. 

Sandgorse licked a sprig of moss from Tallkit’s ear 
and spat it onto the grass. “It’s time you learned to 
dig.” 

Disappointment dropped like a stone in Tallkit’s 
belly. He didn’t want to dig. He wanted to see the 
moor and feel the wind in his pelt. 

“Tallkit’s going to go worming!” Shrewkit jeered 
from the Hunting Stones. 

Tallkit spun around crossly. “Worms don’t dig!” 

“Ignore Shrewkit!” Barkkit stepped in front of his 
littermate. “He’s just teasing.” 

Sandgorse snorted. “Typical moor-kit, scared of 
getting sand in his eyes.” He headed for the tunnelers’ 
bracken patch. Tallkit scrambled after him and ducked 
under Sandgorse’s belly as he stopped beside 
Woollytail’s nest. Tallkit peeped out, relishing the 
warmth of his father’s fur on his spine. 

“Do you think sticks will be strong enough to hold up 
the roof?” Sandgorse wondered. 

Woollytail frowned. “They'll do until we can roll 
stones into place.” 

“Perhaps we should take a different route to the 


gorge.” Above Tallkit’s head, Sandgorse’s belly 
twitched. 

Woollytail shook his head. “We can’t be far from 
clay now. It’ll be harder digging, but there’Il be fewer 
cave-ins.” 

Sandgorse glanced toward the elders’ den. Tallkit 
guessed he was thinking about Lilywhisker’s crushed 
leg. “Perhaps we should explore the rabbit warrens 
higher up. There may be a clay seam there we can dig 
into.” 

“But we’ve made so much progress over leaf-bare,” 
Woollytail argued. “It’d be a shame to start again.” 
The tom’s muscular shoulders twitched. They were as 
wide and toned as Sandgorse’s. 

Will I have shoulders like that when I’m a 
tunneler? Tallkit’s gaze strayed across the camp to 
Cloudrunner and Aspenfall. They were much sleeker: 
built for speed, not strength. Tallkit wondered what it 
felt like to run across the moor with the wind rushing 
through his fur. Surely that would be better than being 
squashed underground? He imagined his ears and nose 
filling up with mud, and shuddered. 

“Come on, Tallkit.”” Sandgorse’s mew broke into his 


thoughts. His father was heading for the moor runners’ 
nests. Tallkit scampered after him and followed him 
past the swishing stalks to a patch of bare earth behind 
Tallrock. 

“There’s good digging here,’ Sandgorse explained, 
running his paw over the ground. “This is where I first 
learned to tunnel.” 

Tallkit gazed down at the churned earth and 
wondered how many times this patch had been dug 
and refilled, ready for new tunnelers to practice. 
“Don’t you ever get bored of digging?” he mewed. 

“Being a tunneler doesn’t just mean digging,” 
Sandgorse retorted. “Hollowing out new earthroutes is 
part of being a tunneler. But we patrol them, too, and 
it’s a great place to hunt, especially during leaf-bare. 
Don’t forget, that’s why Shattered Ice first tunneled 
through the rabbit warrens.” 

Tallkit already knew the legend of Shattered Ice. It 
was one of the first nursery stories Palebird ever told 
him. Long ago, the moor was gripped by the worst 
leaf-bare the Clan had ever known. There was no prey 
to be found in the snow-drowned stretches of heather 
and gorse. So one of WindClan’s bravest warriors had 


gone into the rabbit warrens and dug deep beyond 
them in search of food for their Clan. 

“He cared more for his Clan than his own safety,” 
Sandgorse meowed solemnly. “And he didn’t have any 
of the training or experience we have now.” 

He had only his courage and strength. Tallkit 
stifled a yawn. 

“He had only his courage and strength,’ Sandgorse 
went on. “WindClan has tunneled ever since, learning 
more with each generation.” He lifted his chin. 
“Without its tunnelers, WindClan would have suffered 
many hungry, preyless moons.” 

Tallkit’s pelt pricked guiltily. How could he dream of 
running across the moors like Cloudrunner and 
Aspenfall? One day his Clan would depend on him. He 
should be proud to follow in his father’s paw steps. 
Unsheathing his claws, he began to scrape at the earth, 
sending it showering behind him. 

“Wait.” Sandgorse swept his tail over Tallkit’s spine. 
“You're not digging a hole to make dirt.” 

Tallkit sat back and shook his head to dislodge some 
flakes of dirt. There were different ways to dig? 

Sandgorse thrust a paw into the soft soil and 


scooped out a lump of earth. Pushing it firmly to one 
side, he dug another. Within moments, he was 
hollowing out dirt, paw over paw, while a pile grew 
beside him, neat and compact. Tallkit felt a quiver of 
pride. His father looked strong and determined, as if 
there was no hole he couldn’t dig, no earth he couldn’t 
shape with his paws. 

“Let me try.” Tallkit reached down past his father 
and gouged out a pawful of the crumbling earth. 

Sandgorse sat back. Tallkit felt his father’s gaze on 
his pelt, warmer than sunshine. He dug harder, 
dragging up pawfuls and throwing them into a loose 
pile beside his fast-growing hole. “I’m tunneling!” he 
squeaked. 

“Watch out!” 

As Sandgorse mewed a warning, Tallkit’s flank 
bumped his dig-pile. Cold, crumbly soil cascaded 
around his ears. It sprinkled over his muzzle, making 
him sneeze. He sat up, shaking out his fur, and stared 
crossly at the earth that was still showering into his 
hole. 

Sandgorse pressed his paw against the pile to stop 
the flow. “Your dig-pile is as important as your hole. 


You must keep it compact. Press your dug-earth down 
firmly or you'll have to dig every pawful twice.” 

Tallkit frowned. This was harder than he thought. 
Concentrating, he dove back into his hole and hauled 
up a fresh pawful of soil. He carefully patted it into the 
side of his dig-pile. This time it stayed where he put it, 
and he reached into the hole with both paws and began 
scooping, paw over paw, taking time to press each 
lump into his pile just as Sandgorse had done. 

“Very good, Tallkit.” There was pride in Sandgorse’s 
mew. 

Tallkit swallowed back a purr and kept digging. The 
hole was so deep now that his hind legs ached each 
time he reached down. 

“Slow down,” Sandgorse warned. 

‘Tm okay—” As Tallkit answered, his hind paws 
shot out from beneath him. Muzzle first, he crashed 
into the hole. Pain seared through his paws as they 
twisted the wrong way, his claws bending back as they 
caught on the soil. A wave of earth smothered him, 
choking him and pushing him farther into the hole. 
Help! I’m being buried alive! 

Teeth sank into his tail, dragging him up. “Are you 


okay?” Sandgorse let go and stared into Tallkit’s face. 

“No!” Tallkit’s muzzle throbbed and his claws 
burned. “I can’t do this! I hate digging holes, and I 
don’t want to be a tunneler!” A wail rose in his belly as 
soil stung his eyes. “Palebird!” Chest heaving, he 
turned and raced for the nursery. 





Sandgorse bounded after him. “You were doing 
really well.” 

“I was not!” Anger surged through Tallkit as his 
eyes watered from the grit. “I fell in! And hurt my 
claws!” He stumbled to a halt outside the nursery and 


held up a paw. 

“You just snagged them. They’ Il be okay.” 

Tallkit blinked through tears. “You don’t know that!” 
Hazily he spotted Palebird’s black-and-white pelt at the 
nursery entrance. 

“Tallkit!” She slid onto the grass. “What happened?” 

Tallkit flung himself against her soft fur. “I fell in and 
soil got in my eyes.” He screwed them up as Palebird 
began to lap at them gently. 

“Is that better?” She paused and waited while he 
opened them gingerly. The stinging had stopped. He 
shook his head, spraying earth from his ears. 

“T hurt my paws, too.” 

Palebird leaned down and sniffed them. “They’re 
fine,” she mewed. “Let’s go inside.” 

“Tallkit!” Sandgorse stepped closer. “You can’t give 
up yet!” 

“Leave him, Palebird murmured. “He’s 
frightened.” 

Tallkit glanced over his shoulder. Sandgorse’s green 
eyes were round with worry. “I'll try again later,” he 
meowed reluctantly. 

“We’ll see.” Palebird nosed him gently into the den. 


“He’s got to learn—” 

Tallkit didn’t hear the rest of his father’s mew. 
Palebird’s fur was swishing in his ears as she guided 
him to their nest. He curled into the soft sheepswool 
lining. “Where’s Brackenwing?” Barkkit’s mother was 
gone. “And Mistmouse?” The ginger queen’s nest was 
empty and there was no sign of Ryekit, Doekit, or 
Stagkit. 

“Brackenwing’s at the prey heap.” Palebird settled 
into the nest beside him. “Mistmouse went hunting.” 

“Hunting?” Queens didn’t hunt. They looked after 
their kits. 

Palebird sighed. “She’s missed being out on the 
moor these past moons. And her kits don’t need her 
anymore.” 

The entrance to the nursery rustled as Brackenwing 
pushed her way in. She carried with her the scent of 
fresh rabbit. “Who’s missed the moor?” Heather 
rustled as she settled into her nest. 

“Mistmouse,” Palebird told her. 

Brackenwing ran her tongue around her lips. “T 
haven’t felt the wind in my fur for too long,” she 
mewed wistfully. 


Tallkit nestled against Palebird. “Do you miss being 
underground?” She’d been a tunneler before he’d been 
born. 

“Of course.” 

Tallkit wasn’t convinced. Who’d want to spend the 
day in the dark? 

Brackenwing flicked her tail over her paws. “You 
won’t be tunneling for a while, Palebird.” The ginger 
queen’s mew sounded ominous. 

Tallkit’s gaze flicked anxiously toward his mother. 
“Why not?” 

“My kitting was hard. I lost Finchkit.” Palebird 
shifted beside him. “It'll take me a bit longer to 
recover.” 

Tallkit searched her gaze. He could never tell 
whether his mother was sad or just tired. “Why did 
Finchkit die? Did you kit her wrong?” 

“Hush!” 

Brackenwing’s sharp mew surprised him. Had he 
said something bad? Palebird liked talking about 
Finchkit. “Did StarClan want her?” he pressed. 

Palebird sighed. “I guess they did.” 

But not me. Why had StarClan left him with 


Palebird? Perhaps they wanted him to cheer her up. 
“What color was Finchkit’s pelt?” Tallkit asked. 

Palebird’s gaze clouded. “Ginger, like your father’s.” 

“I don’t know why you gave Finchkit a name,” 
Brackenwing muttered. 

“She needed a name,” Palebird answered. 

“She only lived for a moment.” Brackenwing 
frowned. “StarClan would have named her.” 

Tallkit felt his mother tremble. Talking about Finchkit 
didn’t seem to be cheering her up. He pawed at her 
cheek softly, trying to distract her. “I’ve got sand in my 
ears.” 

“Have you, dear?” Palebird leaned down and began 
washing his ear fur. 

Relieved to feel her soften beside him, Tallkit 
snuggled closer. He didn’t even remember Finchkit. 
Am I supposed to? 

A shadow darkened the nursery entrance. “Have 
you calmed him down yet?” Sandgorse stuck his head 
through the gorse. “The sooner he starts digging again, 
the better.” 

“T’ve just gotten him cleaned up,” Palebird objected. 

“We'll practice some other skills,’ Sandgorse 


promised. 

Tallkit ducked out from under his mother’s muzzle. 
“Are you sure it’s okay?” he mewed, blinking up at 
her. He didn’t want to leave Palebird if she was still 
sad, but Sandgorse sounded so eager for him to go. 

“Whatever you want, dear.” Her gaze drifted away. 

Tallkit felt a jab of disappointment. Didn’t she want 
him to stay? He stood up. She wants me to train so 1 
can be as strong as Sandgorse. He clambered over 
the side of the nest. “See you later.” 

Palebird didn’t answer. She was staring blankly at 
the den wall. 

“Come on, Tallkit.” Sandgorse brushed his way 
through the nursery entrance. 

Tallkit followed. He was pleased to see his father’s 
gaze brighten as slithered onto the snowy grass beside 
him. 

“I knew one little fall wouldn’t put you off.” 
Sandgorse whisked Tallkit forward with his tail. “Let’s 
practice moving stones. Tunnelers have to learn to 
move rocks much heavier than themselves.” 

“Really?” Tallkit scampered at his side as they 
crossed the camp. 


“It’s an important skill.” Sandgorse nodded toward a 
row of rocks clustered beside the elders’ den. “Let’s 
try these. Just small ones to begin with.” 

Small ones? Tallkit stared at the stones. They were 
as big as sparrows. 

Sandgorse stopped beside the nearest, and beckoned 
Tallkit closer with a twitch of his tail. “Grab it with 
your forepaws, and use your weight to roll it toward 
you.” 

Tallkit swallowed. “Won’t it squash me?” 

“The first rule of tunneling is that you’re always 
stronger than you think,” Sandgorse told him. 

Brown fur flashed at the corner of Tallkit’s gaze. 

“I touched your tail! You re the rabbit now!” 

“Did not!” 

“Did so.” 

Shrewkit and Barkkit were chasing each other over 
the Hunting Stones. Heather sprigs quivered in their 
wake. 

Sandgorse nudged the rock toward Tallkit. “Roll this 
one.” 

Tallkit stared at it. 

“Why do I always have to be the rabbit?” 


“You don’t!” 

Flattening his ears to block out the sound of his 
denmates playing, Tallkit reached up and rested his 
forepaws on the rock. With a grunt, he tried to heave it 
toward him. His belly tightened with the effort, but the 
stone didn’t move. 

“Let’s try a smaller one.” Sandgorse pushed another 
stone closer. 

As Tallkit reached for it, Flailfoot padded out of the 
elders’ den. His black pelt moved like a shadow 
against the frosty gorse. “He’s a bit young to be 
moving rocks.” 

Sandgorse sniffed. “It’s never too early to start 
learning tunneling skills.” 

Flailfoot sat down. “I didn’t move my first stone till I 
was an apprentice.” 

Tallkit gritted his teeth, I’m going to move it! 
Hissing under his breath, he heaved. His claws slipped. 
His hind legs buckled. With a gasp, he fell backward 
and landed on his tail. 

“Nice move, Wormkit!” Shrewkit called from the 
Hunting Stones. 

Tallkit turned on him, ears flat. “I’m learning!” 


“Take no notice,’ Sandgorse advised. “Shrewkit 
thinks like a moor runner. He doesn’t understand 
patience.” 

Tallkit’s heart sank. Would he have to spend the 
whole day trying to shift this dumb rock while Shrewkit 
and Barkkit played Rabbit on the Hunting Stones? 

Heatherstar’s mew rang through the cold air. “Let 
all cats old enough to catch prey gather beneath 
Tallrock.” 

Tallkit jerked around. The WindClan leader stood on 
top of the dark stone in the middle of the Meeting 
Hollow. 

“Wait here,’ Sandgorse ordered. He trotted across 
camp and bounded into the sandy hollow. 

Flailfoot brushed past Tallkit. “Try starting with a 
smaller stone,’ he suggested as he headed after 
Sandgorse. 

Tallkit sat back on his haunches and watched his 
Clanmates streaming toward Tallrock. Aspenfall and 
Cloudrunner bounded down into the snow-whitened 
circle, lithe and light-footed. Redclaw and Dawnstripe 
followed. Meadowslip and Larksplash were already 
staring up expectantly at Heatherstar. They shifted to 


let the other moor runners settle beside them. 

Sandgorse headed for the opposite end of the 
hollow, where the tunnelers sat, and stopped beside 
Woollytail and Hickorynose. Flailfoot jumped stiffly 
down beside them. Tail high, the old tunneler nodded to 
Reedfeather. The WindClan deputy, who was sitting at 
the foot of Tallrock, dipped his head in return. 

Barkkit bounced toward Tallkit, eyes bright. “Aren’t 
you coming?” Shrewkit was already scrambling away 
across the tussocks. 

Tallkit blinked. “But we’re not old enough to catch 
prey.” 

“How do you know?” Barkkit shrugged. “You’ve 
never tried. Besides, we won’t sit with the warriors. 
We can watch from over there.” He pointed with his 
nose to where Shrewkit was threading his way through 
the long grass that edged the moor runners’ nests. 
“Come on.” 

As Tallkit scampered after Barkkit, the camp 
entrance shivered. Lilywhisker and Whiteberry hurried 
in. 

“Have they started?” Lilywhisker called to Flailfoot 
as she limped across camp. 


“Not yet.” Flailfoot padded to the edge of the hollow 
and reached up to steady Lilywhisker as she 
scrambled down on her three good legs. She joined the 
tunnelers while Whiteberry headed for the moor 
runners on the far side of the hollow. 

Mistmouse paced the rim, brushing past her mate, 
Hareflight. The brown tom stood as stiff as the trunk 
of a gorse bush, as though his claws had taken root. 
Tallkit paused beside the moor runners’ nests and 
watched them curiously. Mistmouse’s kits, Ryekit, 
Stagkit, and Doekit, were standing beside the two 
warriors. 

“In here.” Barkkit nudged Tallkit into the grass 
beside Shrewkit. 

Tallkit pushed through the long stems. “What are 
they doing at the hollow?” He jerked his nose toward 
Hareflight’s kits. 

“I don’t know.” Barkkit burrowed deeper into the 
grass and peeped out. 

“Hush!” Shrewkit hissed beside them. “I’m trying to 
hear.” His yellow eyes were fixed on the Meeting 
Hollow. 

Heatherstar sprang down from Tallrock and weaved 


past her Clanmates until she reached the center. 
Mistmouse was fiercely smoothing the fur between 
Stagkit’s ears. Hareflight nudged Doekit and Ryekit 
closer to the edge. 

“Ryekit, Doekit, and Stagkit!”” Heatherstar called. 

Tallkit felt Barkkit stiffen beside him. “It’s their 
apprentice ceremony!” 

Tallkit leaned forward. 

“Woollytail will get one of them,” Shrewkit guessed. 

“But Hareflight’s a moor runner,” Barkkit reminded 
him. 

“So?” Shrewkit whispered. “Woollytail’s been 
complainng for ages that WindClan needs more 
tunnelers. And Mistmouse will want at least one of her 
kits to follow in her paw steps.” He glanced at Tallkit. 
“T feel sorry for you. Being a tunneler must be awful.” 

Tallkit scowled at him. “Sandgorse says it’s the 
noblest warrior life.” 

“Sandgorse would,” Shrewkit scoffed. “He’s had so 
much mud in his ears it’s probably filled up his head.” 

Tallkit unsheathed his claws, anger surging beneath 
his pelt. “That’s not true!” 

Barkkit pressed against him softly. “Just watch the 


ceremony,” he murmured. 

Stagkit was leading his sisters into the hollow. 
Ryekit’s paws slipped and she slithered down the icy 
slope. Warm purrs rumbled around her as she 
straightened and shook out her soft gray fur. 

“Ryepaw.” Heatherstar met her gaze. The new 
apprentice’s eyes widened. “Your mentor will be 
Larksplash.” Ryepaw purred loudly as Larksplash 
stepped from among the moor runners and touched her 
head with her muzzle. 

Heatherstar flicked her tail. “Larksplash, share your 
speed and sharp eyes with Ryepaw so that she too 
may become a warrior worthy of WindClan.” The 
WindClan leader turned to Doekit. “Doepaw,” she 
meowed. “Your mentor will be Aspenfall.” 

Aspenfall pricked his ears, blinking, as though 
surprised. 

Doepaw’s pale brown pelt pricked excitedly. She 
puffed out her chest as Aspenfall crossed the hollow to 
greet her. “Aspenfall,”’ Heatherstar meowed. “Share 
your courage and strength with Doepaw.” Aspenfall 
dipped his head and touched his nose to Doepaw’s ear. 

Behind them, Stagkit gazed at his Clanmates. 


He must be trying to guess who his mentor will 
be. Tallkit held his breath, as excited as if it were his 
own apprentice ceremony. 

“It looks like poor old Stagkit gets Woollytail,” 
Shrewkit muttered. 

“Stagpaw,” Heatherstar began, “your mentor will be 
Cloudrunner.” 

Shrewkit gasped. “Cloudrunner?”’ 

“He’s not a tunneler,’ Barkkit breathed. 

Tallkit felt a flash of relief for his former denmate. 
Stagpaw wont have to train underground! Then 
guilt pricked him. He should be feeling sorry that 
Stagpaw would never be the noblest of warriors. 

Heatherstar went on. “Cloudrunner, share your 
hunting skill and agility with your apprentice so he may 
feed his Clans for many moons to come.” 

Yowls of approval rose from the moor runners. 

“Stagpaw!” 

“Ryepaw!” 

“Doepaw!” 

On the rim of the hollow, Mistmouse and Hareflight 
twined their tails together, their eyes shining with pride. 

“Cloudrunner? ” Woollytail’s mew rose above the 


cheers. Confusion clouded his yellow gaze. 

Hickorynose narrowed his eyes. “Why wasn’t an 
apprentice given to a tunneler?” he demanded. 

“What’s going on?” A mew sounded from the camp 
entrance. A gray she-cat stared at her Clanmates. Her 
pelt was dusted with soil. 

Mistmouse turned. “Hi, Plumclaw.” She shifted her 
paws uneasily as she faced her tunneling denmate. 
“T’m afraid you missed the naming ceremony.” 

“Did Woollytail get his apprentice?” The she-cat’s 
gaze flashed with hope. 

Woollytail shook his head. “They’re training as moor 
runners.” 

“All of them?” Plumclaw’s eyes widened. 

Heatherstar stepped forward. “Aspenfall, 
Cloudrunner, and Larksplash are going to mentor 
Mistmouse’s kits.” 

Plumclaw stared at Mistmouse. “Don’t you want 
any of them to follow in your paw steps?” 

Mistmouse dropped her gaze. Hareflight pressed 
close to his mate. “We’ve decided that we want them 
all to be moor runners.” 

“Tunneling is dangerous work,” Mistmouse pointed 


out. “Our kits are good runners, like their father. 
They’ ll be better hunting the moors than the tunnels.” 

Hickorynose took a step forward, his fur bristling. 
“But we need more tunneler apprentices.” 

Behind him, Sandgorse swished his tail. “At least 
we'll have Tallkit in a few moons.” 

Tallkit’s belly tightened. 

“Lucky little Wormkit,” Shrewkit teased. 

Tallkit glared at him. “Shut up!” 

Heatherstar padded toward the tunnelers. “I know 
you’re disappointed, but Mistmouse and Hareflight 
want their kits to train as moor runners.” 

Hickorynose met her gaze. “The Clan needs 
tunnelers as well, Heatherstar.” 

“I understand your disappointment,” Heatherstar 
answered softly. “But Leafshine’s death is still fresh in 
our memories.” 

Tallkit had heard Palebird and Brackenwing talking 
about the tunneler killed by the same cave-in that had 
crippled Lilywhisker. 

“I had to respect Mistmouse and Hareflight’s 
wishes,” the WindClan leader continued. 

Hickorynose dipped his head. “I guess.” 


Heatherstar went on. “When newleaf comes and 
the earth is drier, the tunnels will be safer and better 
for training.” 

Woollytail pushed past Hickorynose. “Why didn’t 
you warn us we weren’t getting an apprentice?” 

Reedfeather took a pace forward. “Would you have 
accepted it any more easily if we had?” 

Plumclaw called from the top of the hollow. “We 
would have known that you still respected us!” 

Heatherstar lifted her chin. “Of course WindClan 
respects its tunnelers,” she insisted. “When leaf-bare 
brings endless moons of snow, our tunnelers always 
bring us prey. We value your skills, and we want to 
help you keep them alive through future moons.” 

A growl rumbled in Woollytail’s throat. “How, when 
you give us no apprentices to train?” 

“You will have more apprentices eventually.” 
Heatherstar flicked her tail. “For now, the ceremony is 
over.” She turned to Cloudrunner. “Show your 
apprentices their territory.” She dipped her head to 
Aspenfall and Larksplash. “Train them well.” 

Tallkit felt a flicker of unease as Cloudrunner 
hopped out of the hollow and led Stagpaw to the camp 


entrance. Larksplash, Aspenfall, Ryepaw, and Doepaw 
bounded after them. How would the tunnelers get 
more apprentices? Tallkit wondered. Shrewkit and 
Barkkit would be moor runners. Was Tallkit going to 
have to keep the tunnelers’ skills alive all by himself? 

Barkkit pressed close to him. “Sandgorse will make 
sure that Heatherstar chooses a tunneler mentor when 
it’s your naming ceremony.” 

“Yeah.” Tallkit tried to sound enthusiastic. Did he 
really want to spend the rest of his moons digging holes 
and heaving rocks? 

“Redclaw, Appledawn, Hareflight!” Reedfeather 
called to the moor runners. “The prey heap is low. We 
must hunt.” 

Redclaw’s nose twitched. “Rabbit will be easy to 
scent in this weather.” 

Appledawn sprang out of the hollow and headed for 
the entrance, her pale cream pelt rosy in the low 
sunshine. 

Hareflight raced after her. “Let’s hunt the high 
outcrops.” 

Tallkit watched the muscles ripple beneath 
Hareflight’s pelt as the pale brown tom reached the 


camp entrance in three easy bounds. Longing pricked 
his belly. 7 want to race on the moors. I want to be 
pulled by the wind, and chase rabbits beneath the 
big, blue sky. Would he ever feel the same way about 
running through tunnels in the dark? 





Thick snow smothered the high-moor, but in the 
camp’s sheltered dip, the heather and grass was tinged 
green with the promise of newleaf. Tallkit could feel 
the prick of fresh stems beneath his paws as he 
skimmed across the tussocks. Barkkit fled ahead of 


him, tail whipping as he plunged down into the Meeting 
Hollow. 

Tallkit reached the edge and leaped, sailing fast and 
high before landing skillfully and racing on without 
missing a paw step. Barkkit charged ahead, kicking 
sand in his wake. Excitement pulsed through Tallkit’s 
paws as he gained ground on his denmate. Hes two 
moons older and I’m still faster! Tallkit pushed 
harder as Barkkit reached the far slope of the hollow 
and scrambled out. 

Tallkit jumped easily up the slope, clearing it as 
Barkkit dived for cover beneath the thick gorse 
beyond. He slowed to a halt, stopping a whisker from 
the barrage of thorns. Pelt twitching, he paced along 
the edge of gorse, swishing his tail. “I know you’re in 
there, mouse! I’m going to pull your tail!” 

“Never!” Barkkit purred. 

“Come out and face me, rabbit-heart!” 

“Come and get me, buzzard-face!” The gorse 
rattled as Barkkit scrabbled deeper. 

Tallkit ducked and peered under the branches. “I’m 
coming!” 

A paw pressed on his tai. “Going tunneling, 


Wormkit?” Shrewkit snorted. 

Tallkit spun around, bristling. “Will you drop the 
dumb name?” He squared his shoulders. 

“But it suits you.” Shrewkit’s eyes gleamed. “You’re 
going to spend your life burrowing underground.” 

“Ignore him, Tallkit!” Barkkit called from under the 
gorse. “Let’s finish our game.” 

Tallkit held Shrewkit’s gaze. “Why don’t you join 
us?” Playing was better than arguing. 

“T’m too old for kits’ games.” 

Tallkit prickled with frustration. “Then why don’t 
you go hunting with Redclaw?” He leaned closer. “Oh, 
I forgot! You’re too young to leave camp.” 

The gorse trembled as Barkkit pushed his way out. 
“Stop acting like a *paw, Shrewkit. You’ve got three 
moons left before you get your apprentice name.” 

Shrewkit puffed out his fur. “I don’t see why I have 
to wait. I’m nearly as big as Doepaw.” 

“No kit can be apprenticed before six moons,” 
Tallkit reminded him. “Don’t you know the warrior 
code?” 

Shrewkit flicked his tail “Do tunnelers have a 
code?” 


Tallkit flexed his claws. “We’re warriors too!” he 
snapped. “We train to hunt and fight like moor runners. 
We just have extra skills.” 

‘Do you mean digging?” Shrewkit sneered. 
“Rabbits can dig. It’s not such a great skill.” 

“Yes, it is!” Tallkit felt a rush of fury. “Sandgorse is 
helping to build a tunnel right down to the bottom of the 
gorge. No rabbit could do that. No rabbit would even 
think of it.” He fluffed out his pelt, hoping his anger 
would hide the fear that was pricking through his fur at 
the thought of squeezing down such a long, long tunnel. 

“Tunnels are a waste of time,’ Shrewkit scoffed. 
“They’re only good for hiding in.” 

“No, they’re not!” How dare Shrewkit suggest that 
tunnelers were cowards? Being underground was far 
scarier than running around the moor. “The new tunnel 
means an extra prey run and a secret route in and out 
of our territory if we ever need it.” 

“Real warriors don’t need secret routes. They stay 
in the open and fight.” 

Tallkit lashed his tail. “Tunnelers can fight 
underground!” 

‘Tm just saying I’m glad I don’t have to be a 


tunneler’s apprentice. Don’t tell me you’re looking 
forward to spending your life in the dark.” 

‘Tm proud to follow in Sandgorse’s paw steps.” 
Tallkit shifted his paws guiltily. J just wish I wasnt 
dreading it. 

Barkkit nosed his way between them. “I don’t know 
why you’re arguing,” he mewed. “It’s okay to want 
different things. If we all wanted to be moor runners 
we’d be just the same as ThunderClan or ShadowClan 
or RiverClan. But we’re not; we’re WindClan, and we 
can fight and hunt and tunnel.” 

Tallkit swallowed his frustration. Barkkit was right. 
WindClan cats were special and it was mouse-brained 
to stand around arguing about it. Whipping his tail, he 
turned and stomped away. Sharp pain stabbed his paw. 
“Ow!” He lifted it, hopping. His pad stung like fury. 

Barkkit bounded over. “What’s wrong?” 

“I stepped on something sharp.” Tallkit held out his 
paw. 

Barkkit crouched and peered at the pad. Gently he 
tipped it up to get a better look. “It’s a gorse thorn,” he 
mewed. 

Tallkit glanced nervously toward the medicine den. 


“Should I ask Hawkheart to get it out?” If Hawkheart 
was busy, he wouldn’t want to be disturbed— 
especially by buzzard prey. 

“No need.” Leaning close, Barkkit pressed his 
muzzle to Tallkit’s pad. Tallkit felt his denmate’s breath 
warm on his paw; then there was a sharp tug and the 
pain melted away. Barkkit sat up. A long thorn stuck 
from between his teeth. Blood glistened on the tip. He 
spat it out. “Lick your paw really hard,” he ordered. 
“That'll stop it from going bad.” 

Tallkit lifted his paw and examined the pad. A spot 
of blood was welling where Barkkit had removed the 
thorn. He lapped it, amazed at how quickly the pain 
had disappeared. The blood tasted salty on his tongue. 
“Thanks, Barkkit.” He looked at his friend. “How did 
you know what to do?” 

Barkkit shrugged. “It was obvious.” 

Shrewkit rolled his eyes. “Brilliant,’ he snorted. 
“That’s really going to help catch rabbits or fight 
invaders.” 

Barkkit tipped his head on one side. “There’s more 
to life than hunting and fighting.” 

“Ts there?” Shrewkit blinked in surprise. “Don’t tell 


me you want to be a tunneler?” 

“That’s not what I said,” Barkkit mewed. 

“Another digger!” Shrewkit turned his tail on his 
brother. He clearly wasn’t listening. “That’s just what 
WindClan needs.” 

Barkkit watched his brother march away. 

Tallkit narrowed his eyes, confused. “Don’t you 
want to be a moor runner, Barkkit?” 

“No. I want to train as a medicine cat,’ Barkkit 
confessed. 

Tallkit stared at him. “Really?” 

‘Pm going to ask Heatherstar if I can be 
apprenticed to Hawkheart.” 

“Hawkheart?” Tallkit echoed in astonishment. J’d 
rather train as a tunneler. “Are you sure?” 

“Yes!” Barkkit’s eyes shone. “I can’t wait to learn 
about all the herbs, and how to treat different injuries.” 

“I can’t imagine Hawkheart with an apprentice.” 

“Do you think he’ll refuse to train me?” Worry 
clouded Barkkit’s gaze. “Maybe that’s why he’s never 
had an apprentice before.” 

“No one’s been brave enough to volunteer,” Tallkit 
muttered. He purred. “He’ll probably be impressed by 


your courage.” 

“Hawkheart’s okay.” Barkkit’s anxious gaze slid 
toward the medicine den. “He just doesn’t like being 
asked rabbit-brained questions, that’s all.” 

“Then how will you learn anything?” Tallkit pointed 
out. 

“PI watch what he does and only ask questions 
when I’m sure I don’t understand.” 

Tallkit blinked, surprised by how determined Barkkit 
sounded. He must have been planning this for ages. 
Sadness pricked his chest. “We’ll never train 
together.” 

“You’re training as a tunneler anyway,” Barkkit 
reminded him. 

“TI have to learn to hunt and fight, and you would 
have learned basic tunnel skills.” Tallkit glanced at 
Shrewkit, who was following Stagpaw from the prey 
heap. “Now I’m stuck with him.” 

“Ignore his teasing,” Barkkit urged. “If you don’t 
react, he’ll get bored and back off.” 

“T guess.” Tallkit wasn’t convinced. “Let’s go see if 
Lilywhisker needs help hunting fleas.” He turned 
toward the elders’ den. 


‘TIl catch up,’ Barkkit mewed. “I want to ask 
Heatherstar about becoming Hawkheart’s apprentice.” 

As Barkkit headed for Heatherstar’s den, Tallkit 
padded toward the thick gorse at the far end of the 
clearing. Flamepelt was outside the den, propped 
against a low hummock while Lilywhisker sat beside 
him, carefully grooming her lifeless leg. 

Doepaw and Ryepaw were crouching in the grass 
beside them, eyes fixed on Flamepelt. The elder was 
midstory. “I took a right fork in the tunnel,” he rasped. 
“It was darker than the inside of a rock but I could 
hear the rabbit a few tail-lengths ahead. It was running 
fast, leaving a trail of fear-scent so strong even a moor 
runner could follow it.” 

“Isn’t tunnel hunting easy?” Doepaw interrupted. 
“There’s only one way for the prey to run.” 

Flamepelt met her gaze. “You think it’s easy to run 
full pelt in stone-black darkness?” 

As Doepaw’s eyes widened, Whiteberry padded 
from the gorse den. His snowy pelt glowed in the 
sunshine. “You’ve only got your ears, nose, and 
whiskers to guide you,” he explained. “One wrong paw 
step and you could hit a wall.” 


Flamepelt leaned forward. “A dead end gives a 
different echo from a passage. An experienced 
tunneler can hear whether an underpath will open out 
or get narrower just by the way the air ruffles his ear- 
fur.” 

Lilywhisker lifted her muzzle. “I used to be able to 
hear a cavern halfway across the moor, just by the 
echo of my paw steps,” she boasted. 

Whiteberry lay beside her and stretched sleepily. “I 
could scent prey through a tail-length of soil.” 

Tallkit blinked. One day he’d learn all of these skills. 
He knew he should feel excited, but he could only 
picture darkness and mud. He shivered as though he 
were already belowground. 

Flamepelt returned to his story. “The rabbit was well 
under ShadowClan territory.” 

“And you followed it?” Ryepaw gasped. “But it was 
ShadowClan prey once it’d crossed the border!” 

“Tunnels belong to WindClan,” Flamepelt rasped. 

Tallkit padded closer. “How did you know it was 
ShadowClan territory when you were underground?” 

“The soil smells of pinesap,’ Flamepelt told him 
briskly, then pressed on. “The rabbit kept running. I 


was closing on it fast. Then I heard paw steps on the 
forest floor above. I was close to the surface.” 

Doepaw’s tail twitched. “Could they tell you were 
there?” 

Whiteberry cut in with a snort. “No overgrounder 
can smell through earth.” 

“But they might have heard my paw steps.” 
Flamepelt lowered his voice. “If they mistook me for a 
rabbit, they might start digging. I couldn’t risk them 
discovering the tunnels. So I froze.” Flamepelt paused. 
“I could hear the rabbit racing away, and there was 
fresh air wafting down the tunnel. The prey was 
heading for an opening. I just had to hope that the 
ShadowClan patrol wouldn’t spot it and chase it back 
underground.” 

“Did they?” Ryepaw asked breathlessly. 

“The ShadowClan paw steps suddenly broke into a 
run,” Flamepelt told her. “I heard their calls: Rabbit! 
Rabbit!’ His gaze widened, flicking from Doepaw and 
Ryepaw to Tallkit. 

The fur on Tallkit’s spine lifted. “What happened?” 

“Earth showered around me as they pounded 
overhead. I had to think fast. If they found the opening 


and chased the rabbit back down, they’d find me and 
discover the tunnel. I had to block it.” 

“Block it?” Ryepaw squeaked. “How?” 

“I had to cause a cave-in!” Flamepelt announced. 
“The soil was light and soft. If I could loosen enough to 
block the tunnel without bringing the whole roof down, 
Pd be safe.” 

Tallkit’s heart began to pound. “What if the whole 
roof had collapsed?” His chest tightened. 

“T’?d have drowned in soil,” Flamepelt breathed. 

“No!” Ryepaw’s mew was barely a whisper. 

“I could hear ShadowClan voices at the end of the 
tunnel, then the rabbit’s paws thumping closer. 
Stronger steps were on its tail. The patrol was heading 
straight toward me.” Flamepelt reached up with a 
forepaw. “I began scraping at the soil above my head. 
Claws out, I dug as hard and as fast as I could. The 
paw steps were thundering nearer, echoing against the 
walls of the tunnel. Another few moments and they’d 
smell me. A few moments after that, they’d crash right 
into me. I clawed at the roof with both paws until I 
heard the earth groaning. I stuck my paws in for a final 
pull and the roof showered down. I leaped back just in 


time as the whole tunnel gave way in front of me. 
Beyond the wall of soil, I heard the squeal of the rabbit 
as the ShadowClan patrol caught up with it.” 

‘Didn’t they know you were there?” Doepaw 
asked. 

“Tt was too dark, and the earth-scent hid my smell.” 
Flamepelt shrugged. “As far as they were concerned, 
it was just a dead-end rabbit hole. I turned around and 
headed for home.” 

Lilywhisker sighed. “T miss those days.” 

Flamepelt nodded. “What I wouldn’t give to be 
running tunnels again!” 

Whiteberry whisked his tail over his paws. “There 
were enough tunnelers back then to patrol every 
tunnel.” 

“We kept them in good condition,’ Flamepelt 
agreed. “These days, if there’s a cave-in, the Clan just 
thinks it’s one less tunnel to patrol.” 

Doepaw narrowed her eyes. “Isn’t it good that we 
don’t have to send so many cats underground?” She 
nodded at Lilywhisker’s leg. “It is dangerous.” 

“Being a moor runner’s not exactly safe,” Flamepelt 
retorted. “There are buzzards and dogs and foxes 


aboveground. They’re just as dangerous as a cave-in. 
The better trained we are, the less risk there is. That’s 
why we need to keep training our young’uns to tunnel. 
There’ll come a time when we’ ll depend on the tunnels 
again.” 

Ryepaw tilted her head sideways. “But there are 
plenty of rabbits these days. Now our territory covers 
the whole moor, and even in the worst snows we can 
find enough to feed the Clan.” 

Flamepelt sat up. “What if another Clan decides to 
invade our territory?” 

Doepaw bristled. “We’d fight them off.” 

Flamepelt’s tail twitched. “Tunnels give us an 
advantage in battle.” 

Tallkit glanced from elder to apprentice. Had moor 
runners and tunnelers always disagreed like this? How 
had WindClan stayed together for so many moons if 
the two sides felt so differently? 





The camp entrance swished as Sandgorse padded 
into camp, Plumclaw and Mistmouse at his tail. Mud 
streaked Sandgorse’s pelt and his shoulders sagged. 
Tallkit hurried to greet him. 

“Hi, kit!” Sandgorse meowed. “Have you had a 


good day?” 

“Yes! Flamepelt’s been telling us about the time he 
chased a rabbit all the way under ShadowClan 
territory.” 

“Ah, that’s a good story.” Sandgorse ran his tail 
along Tallkit’s spine. The tip felt wet and smelled of 
mud. “We’ve been working on the gorge tunnel.” 

“Sandgorse!” Heatherstar leaped out of the Meeting 
Hollow and crossed the camp. Reedfeather bounded 
after her. “How’s the work going?” Heatherstar 
prompted. The leader’s gaze flicked over the muddy, 
bedraggled pelts of Plumclaw and Mistmouse, and 
there was a flash of concern in her eyes. 

“It’s fine,’ Sandgorse reported. “We’ve shored up 
the stretch beyond the peat ridge. It’s steep there, but 
we’ve pulled up clay from lower down and 
strengthened the tunnel walls.” 

Reedfeather narrowed his eyes. “It seems like a lot 
of work.” 

Plumclaw shook out her pelt. “It’ll be worth it when 
it’s finished.” 

“When will that be?” Heatherstar asked. 

Mistmouse exchanged glances with Sandgorse. “It’s 


hard to say,’ she meowed. “We’re tunneling in 
territory we haven’t worked before. It’s difficult to 
predict whether we’re going to meet sand, clay, or 
stone next.” 

Reedfeather moved beside Heatherstar. “It sounds 
dangerous.” 

“It’s challenging.” Sandgorse puffed out his chest. 
“But we’re learning a lot. And when it’s done, 
WindClan will have a secret route from the top of the 
moor right down to the river.” 

“What about the cliff face?” Heatherstar’s ears 
twitched. “You can’t tunnel through rock.” 

“We’ve planned for that,’ Plumclaw explained. 
“There’s a seam of clay just as the river drops into the 
deepest part of the gorge. We plan to dig up through 
that and meet the tunnel coming down.” 

“Won’t RiverClan be able to see it from the bottom 
of the gorge?” Reedfeather asked. 

“There are brambles,’ Sandgorse told him. “The 
entrance will be hidden.” He looked at Tallkit. “I can’t 
wait to show you,” he purred. 

Tallkit felt a rush of pride. Sandgorse could do things 
even the Clan leader couldn’t. “I can’t wait to see it!” 


he mewed. 

“You may be apprenticed in time to help finish 
digging it,’ Sandgorse purred. 

Tallkit stiffened. Suddenly he imagined himself at the 
bottom of a long tunnel, far from the sky, digging in the 
dark through filthy clay, desperately trying to find his 
way through to fresh air. He swallowed as his chest 
tightened. “Yes,” he whispered shakily. 

Heatherstar fluffed up her fur. “You’d better get 
dry,” she advised the tunnelers. “This chilly wind will 
give you greencough if you’re not careful.” 

Sandgorse nodded and headed away. “Come on, 
Tallkit!” he called. “Help me lick the grit from behind 
my ears.” 

Tallkit scurried after him, catching up to Sandgorse 
as he reached the tunnelers’ bracken patch. Sandgorse 
stopped and shook out his pelt. Tallkit screwed up his 
face as mud spattered him. A purr rumbled in 
Sandgorse’s throat. “You'll have to get used to mucky 
fur.” 

Tallkit shuddered. 

“You're getting him dirty!” Palebird’s mew rang 
across the camp. Tallkit turned to see his mother 


hurrying toward them. 

“He’s helping me get cleaned up,’ Sandgorse 
objected. “He wants to get the grit from behind my 
ears, don’t you, Tallkit?” 

Tallkit gazed at his father’s mud-crusted head. Not 
really. 

“I guess he’s got to learn how.” Palebird touched 
her muzzle to Tallkit’s head. “One day he’ll be cleaning 
the grit from his own ears.” 

Sandgorse’s eyes shone. “I can’t wait till we can go 
on patrol together.” He looked from Palebird to Tallkit. 
“Running tunnels, just the three of us.” 

Palebird sighed. “It may be a while before I join 
you.” 

Sandgorse looked up sharply. “What do you mean?” 
His gaze darkened. “Surely you’ll be ready by the time 
Tallkit’s an apprentice?” 

Palebird shook her head. “I don’t think I'll be strong 
enough.” 

“Of course you will.” Sandgorse leaned forward and 
pressed his cheek against hers. “Newleaf will bring 
fatter prey, and you’ ll have your strength back in no 
time.” 


Tallkit stared anxiously at his mother. “You'll be 
better, won’t you?” 

“I hope so,” Palebird murmured. Turning, she 
headed toward the nursery. 

“Go with her, Tallkit,” Sandgorse whispered. “I think 
she needs cheering up.” 

Tallkit hesitated. “What about your ears?” 

“TIl wash them myself.” 

Tallkit trotted after his mother, scrambling over the 
tussocks until he caught up with her. The comforting 
scent of wool and milk enfolded him as they entered 
the nursery. Brackenwing sat up as Palebird curled 
into her nest. The queen’s pale ginger pelt was ruffled 
with sleep. “Where are Barkkit and Shrewkit?” she 
meowed. 

Does she know that Barkkit is planning to ask 
Heatherstar if he can become Hawkheart’s 
apprentice? Tallkit wondered. He figured it wasn’t his 
place to tell Brackenwing if she didn’t know. “They’re 
playing outside.” He scrambled over the edge of the 
nest and slid in beside Palebird’s belly. He was hungry. 

Palebird pulled away as he nuzzled into her belly. 
“No, Tallkit.” 


Tallkit froze. No? He wriggled closer, closing his 
eyes and breathing in his mother’s tempting, milky 
scent. 

Palebird shoved him back with a paw. “I said no, 
Tallkit.” 

“No milk?” He stared at her in disbelief. 

“It’s drying up,” she told him. “You’re old enough to 
eat from the prey heap now.” 

“But . . .” He searched for a way to change her 
mind, but Palebird was staring at him blankly. 

Brackenwing’s nest rustled. “It’s okay, Tallkit.”” She 
climbed out of the heather and leaned in to lick his 
ears. “Shrewkit and Barkkit have been eating from the 
heap for a moon. They prefer prey now.” 

No milk at all? Tallkit couldn’t believe Palebird 
hadn’t warned him. 

His mother half closed her eyes. “You'll enjoy eating 
with the big kits,’ she murmured. 

Tallkit felt Brackenwing tug his scruff with her 
teeth. He scrabbled at the nest, snagging wool in his 
claws as she lifted him out. His fur spiked. /ts not 
fair! 

Brackenwing lowered him gently to the floor. “Let 


Palebird rest.” She nosed him toward the entrance. 
Numbly Tallkit stumbled forward. Behind him, 
Brackenwing was tucking wool around his mother. 
“You get some sleep, dear,” she whispered as Palebird 
tucked her nose under her paw and closed her eyes. 

With a pang of sadness, Tallkit slid from the den. He 
landed on the damp grass and fluffed his fur against 
the chill. Wool was tufted beneath his claws. He shook 
it out crossly and stared across the camp. The prey 
heap was stacked high. He could see a rabbit near the 
bottom with small, brown mouse bodies piled on top. 
Belly growling, he stomped toward the heap. As he 
reached it, he sniffed warily. Rich scents swamped his 
tongue. He drew back, wrinkling his nose. 

“First time?” Plumclaw’s mew made him jump. The 
dark gray she-cat nosed in beside him. “Try a mouse 
first. It’s not too strong and it’s easy to chew.” She 
tugged one of the little, brown bodies from the heap 
and dropped it at his paws. “Be careful of the bones.” 
She tapped the haunches of the mouse with her soft, 
gray foot. “Take a bite there.” 

Tallkit leaned down, trying not to breathe in the prey 
scent. J want milk! Closing his eyes, he sank his teeth 


into the soft flesh. Flavor flooded his tongue, pungent 
and warm. 

“Not bad, eh?” Plumclaw purred. 

Tallkit wasn’t sure. He ripped a small chunk from 
the mouse and looked at her. The juicy meat was 
strange, but not horrible. He began to chew. 

“There you go!” Plumclaw’s eyes glowed. She 
hooked a bird from the pile with a claw and pointed to 
a patch of grass beside the heather wall of the camp. 
“Let’s take our meal over there and stop crowding the 
prey heap.” Grabbing the bird between her teeth, she 
padded across the grass. 

Tallkit picked up the mouse and followed. He puffed 
out his chest proudly as it swung from his jaws. He felt 
like a moor runner bringing prey home to the Clan! He 
settled beside Plumclaw as she took a bite of her bird. 
“This is a thrush,” she explained, her mouth full. “It 
tastes a bit woody.” She swallowed. ‘I prefer lapwing, 
but we only hunt them after the breeding season.” 

Tallkit took another bite of mouse. He knew what to 
expect this time and began to relish the chewy meat. 

“You'll be an apprentice soon and then you can 
catch your own prey,” Plumclaw told him. 


Catch my own prey! Tallkit wondered what tunnel- 
hunting was like. Chasing rabbits in the dark couldn’t 
be as much fun as chasing rabbits on the moor. “Did 
you like being an apprentice?” he asked Plumclaw. 

“It was great.” Plumclaw tore another mouthful 
from her thrush. 

Tallkit glanced at her from the corner of his eye. 
“Were you glad you were going to be a tunneler?” 
Could any cat be glad to be told they would spend their 
life underground? 

“Of course!” Plumclaw shook a feather from her 
muzzle. “Both my parents were tunnelers. And I knew 
Pd be good at it because I’m small, and my paws are 
wide and strong.” She held one up. Tallkit could see 
mud trapped beneath her claws even though the rest of 
her pelt was washed clean. 

“Do you like being underground?” Tallkit tried to 
sound unconcerned. He didn’t want her to guess he 
was having second thoughts about becoming a 
tunneler. What if she told Sandgorse? 

“I love it,” she told him. “It feels like a secret world. 
Above me, prey runs, warriors patrol, clouds move 
over the moor, and no one except my tunnelmates 


know where we are.” 

“Don’t you miss the wind in your pelt?” 

“No.” Plumclaw looked at him, surprised. “It’s snug 
underground. I feel safe with the earth pressing against 
my fur.” 

Tallkit swallowed. “You sound like you’re half 
mole!” 

“Maybe I am.” As Plumclaw purred with 
amusement, Barkkit scrambled out of the Meeting 
Hollow. Tallkit sat up as his denmate bounced toward 
him. 

“Heatherstar said yes!” Barkkit stopped in front of 
him. “I can be Hawkheart’s apprentice!” 

“I didn’t know you wanted to be a medicine 
apprentice,” Plumclaw purred. “Congratulations!” 

“Yeah.” Tallkit licked blood from his lips. 
“Congratulations.” He couldn’t help feeling a pang of 
envy. You'll be doing what you want while I spend 


all day digging holes. 
“Tallkit?” Barkkit was frowning at him. “What’s 
wrong?” 


Tallkit lifted his chin. He wasn’t being fair to his 
friend. “Nothing. I’m really happy for you!” 


Barkkit noticed his mouse. “You’re eating prey!” 

Tallkit puffed out his fur proudly. “It’s good.” 

“I like shrew best,’ Barkkit told him. “It tastes 
heathery.” He glanced over his shoulder at the grassy 
clearing. “Do you want to play Rabbit?” 

Tallkit took a quick bite of mouse and pushed the 
rest toward Plumclaw. “Here.” 

“Thanks,” she meowed. “Are you sure you’ve had 
enough?” 

“Plenty.” Tallkit jumped to his paws. “Shall I be 
rabbit this time?” he asked Barkktt. 

Barkkit flicked his stubby tail. “Yes.” 

“Okay,” Tallkit mewed. “But I’m not hiding under 
any gorse bushes. They’re way too prickly.” 

“Don’t worry,” Barkkit reassured him. “If you step 
on another thorn, I can always pull it out.” 





“Let all cats old enough to hunt gather at Tallrock.” 
Blue sky framed Heatherstar as she called from the 
top. Behind her, the distant moor rolled wide and green, 
rippling with heather not quite in bloom. 

A soft breeze tugged at Tallkit’s pelt as he sat on the 


rim of the Meeting Hollow. His Clanmates swarmed 
around him, streaming down into the sandy dip. A 
warm newleaf had brought rich prey and now, as 
greenleaf set in, the Clan’s warriors were plump and 
sleek. Tallkit glanced at the tunnelers as they clustered 
at one end of the hollow. Woollytail’s eyes were bright 
and Hickorynose paced impatiently around him while 
Plumclaw’s tailtip flicked with excitement. Hawkheart 
and Reedfeather sat still as stone at the foot of 
Tallrock while the moor runners filled up the rest of the 
hollow. 

“Sit down and stop fidgeting.” Cloudrunner 
beckoned Stagpaw with a flick of his tail. Doepaw was 
already waiting between Aspenfall and Ryepaw. 

The elders clambered stiffly into the hollow, 
Flamepelt leading the way. Whiteberry pressed close 
to Lilywhisker as she dragged her leg behind her. 
Flailfoot followed. “This is the ceremony I’ve been 
looking forward to,” he rasped. 

Tallkit’s heart leaped like a rabbit in his chest. 

Sandgorse stood beside him. “Are you ready?” 

“Yes.” Tallkit glanced at Palebird. Her round eyes, 
which had been dull for so long, were bright and 


focused. 

She leaned forward and began lapping the fur on 
Tallkit’s shoulders. “I want you looking your best,” she 
purred. 

Brown fur flashed at the entrance to the medicine 
den as Barkpaw hurried out. The young apprentice 
scrambled into the hollow and took his place beside 
Hawkheart. The medicine cat flashed him a 
reproachful look. 

“Sorry, Hawkheart.” Tallkit heard Barkpaw’s 
hushed apology. “I was sorting the comfrey leaves.” 

Shrewpaw caught Tallkit’s eye. He was sitting 
beside his mentor, Hareflight. Tallkit could guess what 
he was thinking. You’re going to be Wormpaw now. 
Tallkit looked away. PU be an apprentice, he told 
himself. It doesn t matter whether I’m a tunneler or 
a moor runner. 

Heatherstar leaped down from Tallrock and crossed 
the hollow. She stopped in the middle and surveyed her 
Clan until her gaze rested on Tallkit. His pelt burned. 
“Tallkit!”” Heatherstar called. 

Palebird nudged him forward. Paws slipping on the 
dry sand, Tallkit scrambled down into the hollow and 


stopped in front of Heatherstar. 

“Tt is rare that I give an apprentice name to only one 
cat.” Heatherstar’s blue eyes bored into him. “Let us 
remember your littermate, Finchkit.” She glanced up at 
Palebird. “WindClan mourns the loss of one so young, 
but she is at peace, safe with StarClan.” 

Tallkit wondered if his littermate was watching his 
ceremony. Would she be jealous that she never got the 
chance to have her apprentice name? Perhaps 
StarClan would grant her one. 

“Tallpaw.” Heatherstar’s mew jerked his thoughts 
back. “I have thought long and hard about who should 
mentor you.” 

Tallpaw heard murmurs of excitement from the 
tunnelers. “She'll choose Woollytail, surely?” 
Plumclaw’s whisper hissed across the hollow. 

Heatherstar’s gaze didn’t waver. “I have chosen 
Dawnstripe.” She turned her head toward the moor 
runners. “Come forward, Dawnstripe.” 

Tallpaw gripped the earth as the ground seemed to 
sway beneath him. But I’m supposed to be a 
tunneler. He looked at Sandgorse, sitting above the 
hollow. His father’s eyes glittered with outrage. 


Tallpaw swallowed as Dawnstripe padded toward 
him. Im not going underground. Relief fluttered 
deep in his belly. 

“Heatherstar!” Woollytail’s sharp mew cut across 
the hollow. “You promised us a tunneler!” 

Paws thumped onto the earth behind Tallpaw. He 
spun around, heart lurching. Sandgorse had jumped into 
the clearing. “You’ve made a mistake, Heatherstar.” 

Heatherstar shook her head. “No, I haven’t, 
Sandgorse.” 

“But I’m a tunneler. Palebird’s a tunneler. We want 
Tallpaw to follow in our paw steps.” 

Heatherstar dipped her head. “I know,’ she 
meowed quietly. “But I have watched Tallpaw. He 
doesn’t have a tunneler’s nature or physique.” 

“That’s not true!” Sandgorse snapped. “Look at this 
tail. It’s easily long enough to pull him out of a cave-in. 
And he has strong paws and short fur, to keep the sand 
out.” 

Heatherstar held Sandgorse’s gaze. “He can run like 
the wind and leap like a hare. He chases imaginary 
prey when he thinks no one is watching.” 

Palebird jumped down beside her mate. “He can 


chase real prey in the tunnels!” she hissed. 

Heatherstar didn’t flinch. “I’ve seen him when the 
wind’s up. It gets into his fur so he can’t sit still. He 
needs to be aboveground. He needs be true to his 
nature.” 

“True to his nature?” Woollytail spat. “What kit 
doesn’t run and jump?” 

Hickorynose snorted. “In leaf-bare, you said that the 
tunnels were too dangerous. Now you say a kit likes 
the wind in his fur. What excuse will you use next time 
you give the moor runners an apprentice?” 

Sandgorse took a step closer to Heatherstar, his pelt 
bristling. “Tunneling is in his nature,’ he growled. 
“How could it not be? His kin are tunnelers stretching 
back for moons.” 

Heatherstar’s tail twitched. “If Tallpaw wants to 
train as a tunneler later, he can. But I want him to train 
as a moor runner first.” 

Tallpaw flinched as he saw Palebird’s tail droop. 
She clambered out of the hollow and padded, head 
down, back to the nursery. Should I tell Heatherstar 
that I want to be a tunneling apprentice? Tallpaw 
looked desperately from the WindClan leader to his 


father. 

“He’s my son,” Sandgorse snarled. “P1 decide his 
future.” 

Heatherstar stiffened. “J decide the future of my 
warriors.” She turned to Dawnstripe. “Share your 
speed and courage with Tallpaw. Make him a warrior 
the whole of WindClan can be proud of.” 

Tallpaw’s heart thumped like rabbit paws on hollow 
earth. Dawnstripe was one of WindClan’s fastest 
runners and had never backed down in a fight. He 
could learn so much from her. 7 will make WindClan 
proud. 

He fought to stop himself from trembling as 
Dawnstripe touched her muzzle to his head, and he 
pricked his ears, listening for his Clanmates’ cheers. 
Paws shifted on the sand around him. No cat called his 
apprentice name. Nervously Tallpaw glanced over his 
shoulder. Sandgorse had turned his tail on the 
ceremony. The tunnelers stared in stony silence. 

“Tallpaw!” Cloudrunner was the first to call his 
name. 

Hareflight joined in “Tallpaw!” 

“Tallpaw!” Dawnstripe raised her voice above the 


others and led the chant, challenging the other moor 
runners to join in with a glare. 

As more cats began to call his name, Dawnstripe 
nosed Tallpaw toward Stagpaw and Doepaw. “Come 
on,” she murmured. “Greet your new denmates.” 

“Tallpaw! Tallpaw!” Ryepaw pummeled the ground. 

Stagpaw’s eyes shone as Tallpaw approached. 
“Congratulations.” 

Tallpaw’s tongue felt dry. Stagpaw had never 
spoken to him as an equal before. 

As the chanting died away, Ryepaw and Doepaw 
clustered around him. “The first time you see the moor 
is the best,’ Doepaw told him breathlessly. 

“You won’t believe how big it is!” Ryepaw fluffed 
out her gray fur. 

Barkpaw raced to Tallpaw’s side. 
“Congratulations!” he mewed. Tallpaw blinked 
gratefully at his friend. He still didn’t know how to 
feel. He wanted to be a moor runner, but not if it made 
his mother and father so angry. 

“You may think you’ve been given an easier path.” 
Tallpaw turned as a gruff mew sounded in his ear. 
Hawkheart was standing beside him. The gray-brown 


medicine cat narrowed his eyes. “But it’s a path that 
leads away from your kin. Be careful not to lose your 
way.” 

Tallpaw shook his head. “I won’t; I promise!” 

Barkpaw puffed out his chest. “Of course he 
won't!” 

“Heatherstar must be crazy.” Shrewpaw barged 
past his brother. “You should be underground, 
Wormkit!”” 

Tallpaw sniffed. “I’m not a kit. Or a worm. I’m 
going to be a moor runner, just like you.” 

Larksplash’s whiskers twitched. “It’ll be good to 
have a new apprentice in the den.” She glanced at 
Ryepaw, her gaze warm. “A certain litter isn’t too good 
at being ready in time for dawn patrol.” 

Aspenfall purred, weaving past Dawnstripe. “I bet 
you’re an early riser, if you’re anything like your 
father.” He looked at Sandgorse. The pale ginger 
tunneler sat with his back to the hollow. 

Tallpaw’s heart twisted. He dipped his head to the 
moor runners crowding around him. “Thank you,” he 
mumbled. “I must go speak with Sandgorse.” He 
nosed his way past Dawnstripe and Stagpaw, and 


jumped out of the hollow. Following the rim, he headed 
for his father. “Sandgorse?” 

The tunneler’s fur looked dull and patchy, worn thin 
by countless moons working underground. 

Tallpaw stopped in front of his father. “Do you want 
me to tell Heatherstar I’d rather be a tunneler?” 

Sandgorse lifted his gaze. “Is that what you want?” 

Tallpaw swallowed. 

Sandgorse’s gaze hardened. “Ts it?” 

Tallpaw shifted his paws. “No,” he mewed quietly. 

“Then don’t,” Sandgorse snapped. 

‘I’m sorry,” Tallpaw mewed. “But if Heatherstar 
had made me a tunneler, I would have trained just as 
hard.” 

“T had such plans.” Sandgorse’s gaze drifted toward 
the nursery, where Palebird was hiding. 

“I know.” Tallpaw tried to ignore the guilt pricking 
his heart. “You and me and Palebird were going to 
patrol together. But I promise, even though I’m training 
to be a moor runner, I’Il be the best warrior I can be.” 

“You were born to be a tunneler.” Sandgorse 
flashed an angry glance at Heatherstar as she sat, 
head bowed, beside Reedfeather in the hollow. “You 


can’t change that, no matter what any other cat tells 
you!” Lashing his tail, he marched away. 

Tallpaw watched him go, grief rising in his throat. 
“T’m sorry,” he whispered. 

Warm breath brushed his ear. Dawnstripe. Tallpaw 
recognized her scent. “There’s nothing you can do,” 
she meowed. “Leave him. He’ll get used to it.” 

Tallpaw looked up hopefully at her. “Will he?” 

Dawnstripe didn’t answer. Instead she nodded 
toward the camp entrance. “Come on. I bet you’re 
desperate to see what’s outside.” She bounded across 
the grass, clearing the tussocks easily. 

Tallpaw raced after her, zigzagging between them. 
He’d jump them one day soon, when his legs were 
stronger from training. As a moor runner! I’m going 
to be a moor runner! He stopped at the camp 
entrance and watched Dawnstripe’s gold-banded tail 
disappearing through the narrow gap in the heather 
that marked the entrance to the camp. For the first 
time in his life, Tallpaw was going to see what lay 
beyond the heather walls. 

He pushed his way through the gap. Heather fronds 
swished over his pelt and he half closed his eyes as 


they flicked his muzzle. As soon as he cleared the 
branches, wind swept over his face. Opening his eyes 
wide, Tallpaw emerged onto a patch of windswept 
grass and stared at the wide heath stretching out 
before him. 

Gray clouds massed on the horizon beyond a sea of 
wind-whisked heather. The moor rolled away on all 
sides, sloping up beyond the camp and dropping below 
where they stood. Gorse sprouted here and there, 
yellow against the green heather, clumping in thick 
swathes like patches of sunshine. Now that he was 
outside, Tallpaw could see that the WindClan camp 
was nestled in a natural hollow, its grassy clearing 
hidden by the thick, leafy walls. 

“What do you think?” Muzzle high, Dawnstripe 
stood on a grassy hillock a few tail-lengths away and 
looked down at him. 

“It’s huge!” Tallpaw whispered. He dug his claws 
into the grass to steady himself against the buffeting 
wind. He felt an urge to charge into the heather and 
run as far as he could, but fear rooted his paws to the 
spot. What if he ran all the way out of the territory? 
What if he couldn’t find his way back to camp? 


“Look!” Dawnstripe flicked her tail to the slope on 
the far side of the camp. Birds were swooping low to 
the heather, then lifting high into the sky before turning 
for another dive. “Lapwings,” Dawnstripe explained. 
“They’re defending their young. There must be a 
weasel nearby.” 

“A weasel?” Tallpaw blinked at her. He’d never 
seen one of those on the fresh-kill pile. Were weasels 
dangerous? He glanced around nervously. 

“Stay clear of them until you’ve learned some 
fighting moves,” Dawnstripe instructed. “They’re fast 
and vicious and their bites carry infection. And they 
taste dreadful, so don’t bother trying to catch one to 
eat.” 

Shrewpaw burst from the tunnel and stared at 
Tallpaw. “Looking for rabbit holes to burrow in?” 

Stagpaw pushed past him. “Stop blocking the 
entrance, rabbit-brain.” 

Shrewpaw stumbled clear as Doepaw, Hareflight, 
Ryepaw, Aspenfall, Larksplash, and Cloudrunner 
streamed out behind him. 

Cloudrunner stopped beside Dawnstripe. 
“Congratulations on getting an apprentice,” he purred. 


“Where are you taking him first?” 

Stagpaw butted in before the golden tabby could 
answer. “We’re practicing battle moves.” 

Cloudrunner glanced sternly at his apprentice. 
“Once we’ve finished practicing not interrupting.” 

“Sorry.” Stagpaw dropped his gaze. 

A purr rumbled in Dawnstripe’s throat. “He’s just 
excited to have a new denmate.” She glanced at 
Tallpaw. “Are you ready?” 

Tallpaw nodded. Behind Dawnstripe the moor swept 
down toward dense, dark green trees. Tallpaw could 
hear their leaves rustling from here. The trees grew so 
close; he imagined it being as dark as a tunnel 
underneath. “Is that where ThunderClan lives?” he 
whispered. How could they see to catch their prey? 

“That’s right,’ Dawnstripe meowed. “Don’t worry, 
we're not going to pay them a visit!” 

Larksplash paced the grass, her tortoiseshell-and- 
white pelt ruffled by the breeze. “I’m taking Ryepaw 
to the RiverClan border to refresh the scent line. Shall 
we travel together?” 

Dawnstripe nodded. She sprang down from the 
grassy hillock and disappeared into a gap in the 


heather. Tallpaw hurried after her. As he ducked 
between the thick branches, he noticed that the grass 
underpaw was worn into a track of bare, brown earth. 
He smelled rabbit, though the scent was stale. 

Ryepaw was trotting at his heels. “Just wait till you 
get to Outlook Rock,” she mewed. “You can see to the 
end of the world from there!” 

Tallpaw followed the rabbit trail as it swerved 
through the heather. Dawnstripe’s golden tailtip 
flashed in and out of sight and Tallpaw quickened his 
pace, worried he’d hold the others back. The trail 
widened until he could see Dawnstripe racing ahead. 
Clumps of black dirt littered the path like bunches of 
dark berries, and Tallpaw hopped and jumped, trying to 
avoid stepping on them. 

“Sheep dirt,” Ryepaw explained. 

Alarm pricked Tallpaw’s pelt. Were there sheep 
here? Sheep were huge. He’d seen their white backs 
looming beyond the camp walls. He jerked his head 
around. “Have you seen one up close?” 

“Of course,” Ryepaw purred. “They’re harmless. 
You could walk under their bellies and they wouldn’t 
notice. They just live to chew and make dirt.” She 


bounded over a large clump of dirt-berries. 

The ground began to slope down as heather gave 
way to wind-flattened grass. It felt soft and damp 
beneath Tallpaw’s pads. Ahead of Dawnstripe, the 
moor rolled onward, like a gigantic, green cat sleeping 
under the blue sky. Tallpaw tasted the air. Sheep dirt, 
rabbit, and heather swamped his tongue. Was there 
enemy scent hidden among all that? Tallpaw closed his 
eyes for a moment to concentrate. 

“Tallpaw, no!” 





Teeth grabbed Tallpaw’s scruff and tugged him with 
a jerk. He gasped as he felt himself swing out into 
open air. Twisting, his hind paws scrabbled against 
stones for a moment before Dawnstripe whisked him 
backward onto the grass and dropped him. 


“Watch where you’re going!” she spat, her eyes 
wide with horror. 

Tallpaw stared at his mentor in confusion. Then his 
gaze slid past her to where the grass ended abruptly. 
There was a narrow strip of rock before the ground 
fell away in a sheer, jagged drop. 

Ryepaw stared at him wide-eyed. “You nearly fell 
into the gorge!” 

Larksplash stopped beside her apprentice. “We 
haven’t lost a *paw to the gorge in a while.” Her eyes 
sparked. 

“This is serious,’ Dawnstripe snapped at her 
Clanmate. 

“I know,” Larksplash meowed softly. “But I think 
Tallpaw’s scared enough.” 

Tallpaw’s heart pounded so loudly he could hardly 
hear what the other cats were saying. Trembling, he 
peered over the edge of the cliff. At the bottom, water 
roared, churning between the sheer rock walls like 
angry storm clouds. It looked like a huge claw had 
sliced a channel through the moor. Was this where 
Sandgorse was tunneling? 

“Stay away from the edge,’ Dawnstripe warned. 


“When it rains, the grass gets slippery.” 

Tallpaw backed away, his heart still thumping. 

Ryepaw nudged his shoulder gently with her nose. “I 
should have warned you,” she whispered. “I forgot 
you’ve never seen the gorge before.” 

A distant bark sounded from somewhere downriver, 
beyond the end of the gorge. 

Tallpaw’s pelt twitched. “Is that a dog?” 

Ryepaw pricked her ears. “Don’t worry. It’s in 
RiverClan territory, so it’s not our problem.” 

“Come on.” Larksplash nodded to her apprentice. 
“Let’s go check the border. If that dog has been 
anywhere near, Heatherstar will want to know.” 

Ryepaw stretched and tasted the air. “It’s with a 
Twoleg.” 

“Tt’ll be a daft one, then.” Larksplash headed away 
over the grass, following the line of the gorge as it 
sloped toward the forest. “Who’d want to hang out 
with a dog? Nasty, slavering things.” 

“Twolegs are all daft!” Ryepaw called, chasing 
after her. 

Tallpaw turned to Dawnstripe as the pair 
disappeared down the slope. “Are there many dogs on 


the moor?” 

Dawnstripe gazed across the heather. “They come 
with Twolegs, but just one or two at a time.” 

“Do they ever come near the hollow?” Tallpaw had 
only seen sheep stray close to the camp wall. 

“They don’t get a chance. They make so much 
noise, we always have time to send a patrol to steer 
them away.” Dawnstripe didn’t sound concerned. 
“Their teeth are no match for a warrior’s claws.” She 
pointed her nose along the gorge. “Do you see where 
the land turns flat and marshy?” 

Tallpaw squinted as the sun flashed from between 
clouds. Farther along the edge of the moor, the river 
emerged from the gorge and grew fat and sluggish 
beside low-lying meadows. 

“That’s RiverClan territory.” Dawnstripe nodded to 
the forest on the opposite side of the silver river. “And 
ThunderClan sleeps and hunts among those trees.” 

Tallpaw wondered what it must be like to live hidden 
from the sky. Didn’t ThunderClan long to feel the sun 
on their pelts or the wind in their ears? They had more 
in common with tunnelers than moor runners! 

Dawnstripe headed away from the gorge and 


crossed the slope, following a ridge of earth topped 
with heather. It curved like an endless tail, wrapping 
protectively around the moor. Tallpaw’s legs were 
aching by the time they halted at the top of a steep 
descent. The smooth grass swept down into a line of 
dense trees. 

“That’s the way to Fourtrees,” Dawnstripe told him. 

Tallpaw stared at the canopy of green leaves 
trembling in the breeze. “Where’s the Great Rock?” 
He peered through the branches, trying to glimpse the 
huge rock he’d heard his Clanmates talking about 
when they returned from Gatherings. 

Dawnstripe flicked her tai. “It’s hidden at the 
moment, but you’ ll see it soon enough.” 

Tallpaw’s heart leaped. He’d forgotten that he’d be 
allowed to attend Gatherings now that he was an 
apprentice. Paws pricking with excitement, he trotted 
after Dawnstripe as she continued around the edge of 
the moor. “That’s ShadowClan territory,’ she told him 
as he fell in beside her. 

Tallpaw followed her gaze to the swathe of pines 
that had taken over from the brighter green trees of 
ThunderClan’s territory. A bare, gray strip divided the 


pines from the rest of the forest, cutting a path like a 
river across the landscape. A faint roar touched 
Tallpaw’s ear fur and he watched tiny shapes move 
along the strip, flashing like drops of water in the 
sunshine. “Is that the Thunderpath?” 

“Yes,” Dawnstripe meowed over her shoulder. 
“Yow ll learn how to cross when you go to 
Highstones.” Tallpaw’s fur pricked. Dawnstripe was 
talking about his visit to the Moonstone, where cats 
shared tongues with StarClan. For a moment his head 
spun with excitement, and he had to stop until the 
ground felt steady beneath his paws again. 

Ahead of them, the grass sloped more steeply and 
before long they were trekking through deep gorse 
once more. “This is the high-moor,’ Dawnstripe 
explained. “We’re heading for the very edge of Clan 
territory.” 

The edge of Clan territory? Tallpaw paused and 
reared onto his hind legs, trying to catch a glimpse. But 
the ridge of earth they had been walking on had given 
way to a rutted sheep trail, and gorse blocked his view. 

“You'll see soon enough.” Dawnstripe veered onto a 
rabbit trail, roofed by heather fronds. Tallpaw ducked 


after her, his pelt pricking uneasily as the heather 
closed around him. The air was stuffy and still. 
Imagine how much worse a tunnel would be. 
Tallpaw took a deep breath and focused on 
Dawnstripe’s golden tail as it bounced in front of him. 

Suddenly he felt wind on his whiskers as the heather 
opened onto a grassy hilltop. Tallpaw blinked with 
relief as short, wind-dappled grass rolled away in front 
of him. He could breathe again! The grass sloped 
down to the Thunderpath, pale and flat and striking 
against the soft landscape. It was closer here, and 
Tallpaw flinched as a monster tore past, roaring louder 
than the wind. Beyond the Thunderpath, squares of 
grass marked out by thin rows of bushes surrounded a 
cluster of dark gray Twoleg nests and, farther still, tall 
cliffs marked the beginning of a range of jagged peaks. 
“Is that Highstones?” Tallpaw whispered, his gaze on 
the distant horizon. 

“Highstones are the cliffs.” Dawnstripe stood beside 
him, her ears stiff against the streaming wind. “You'll 
travel there one day, when you visit Mothermouth and 
touch the Moonstone.” 

Tallpaw shivered as the wind lifted his fur. Every 


WindClan apprentice shared tongues with StarClan at 
the Moonstone before they received their warrior 
name. He shifted his paws, trying to ignore his stinging 
pads. The long walk around WindClan’s territory had 
left them tender and grazed. How would he ever make 
it to Highstones? 

“Look out!” A voice echoed from the heather 
behind. “Mud-hole!” There was alarm in the mew. 

Tallpaw whipped around and scanned the heather. 
“What was that?” 

Dawnstripe padded toward a rabbit hole that was 
half-hidden between the roots of a bush. “The 
tunneling patrol’s down there,” she explained. 

Another voice echoed from the darkness. “Let’s 
shore it up with rocks.” 

“I shifted some back at the double fork.” 

“Fetch them, before there’s a slide.” 

Tallpaw crept forward, sniffing. He smelled 
Plumclaw’s scent, and Hickorynose. “Do you think 
they need help?” he asked warily. He didn’t want to 
creep down into the earth. 

“They know what they’re doing,’ Dawnstripe told 
him. “They won’t want us getting in the way.” She 


headed away from the rabbit hole. 

Tallpaw hurried after her. “Aren’t we even going to 
look?” Surely the tunnels were part of WindClan 
territory? Their Clanmates might be in trouble. 

“I’m a moor runner. I don’t go underground if I can 
help it.” Dawnstripe shook her pelt as though she were 
shaking out soil. “One of the tunnelers will take you 
down during your training and teach you the basics of 
hunting and patrolling down there.” 

Tallpaw tried to ignore the tightening in his chest. Z 
will be able to breathe underground, I will. Instead 
he gazed toward the distant horizon, relishing the wind 
that lifted his fur. He lifted his chin. Jf Shrewpaw, 
Ryepaw, Stagpaw, and Doepaw can survive basic 
tunnel training, so can I. As Dawnstripe headed 
through a gorse patch, Tallpaw raced to catch up. He 
was relieved to feel the ground smooth underpaw, well 
trod by sheep. His paws burned with every step and he 
winced as he hopped over a lump of dirt-berries. 
“Where are we going now?” 

“Camp.” Dawnstripe glanced at him. “You must be 
tired.” 

“No,” Tallpaw lied. “I could stay out for days.” 


A purr rumbled in Dawnstripe’s throat. “Did you like 
what you saw?” 

Tallpaw nodded enthusiastically. “I didn’t imagine 
WindClan territory was so huge.” 

“We guard the edge of the world,’ Dawnstripe told 
him. “The other Clans sit cozy in their marshes and 
woods, fed by the river and sheltered by our moor. 
They never know the true taste of the wind or the 
scent of first snow. There’s no Clan cat faster or more 
nimble than a WindClan cat.” She glanced at Tallpaw’s 
long, black tail. “You'll have good balance. It won’t be 
long before you can outpace a rabbit even on rough 
ground.” 

“I was named for my tail.” Tallpaw puffed out his 
chest. He remembered what Sandgorse had told 
Heatherstar: that it was a tunneler’s tail and would 
make it easy to drag him from a cave-in. Relief 
flooded Tallpaw’s pelt. He’d never have to face a 
cave-in now that he was going to be a moor runner. 
Then he pictured Sandgorse’s eyes, dark with 
disappointment. Guilt formed a lump in his throat as the 
gorse opened onto heather and Tallpaw glimpsed the 
hollow cradling the camp. He broke into a run, 


overtaking Dawnstripe and racing for the entrance. 
His paws skidded on the grass as he swung around 
and ducked through the gap in the heather to burst into 
the clearing beyond. 

Barkpaw called from outside the medicine den. 
“You're back!” He raced across the tussocks and 
skidded to a halt in front of Tallpaw. “What did you 
see?” 

Tallpaw winced at the sharp tang of herbs wafting 
from his friend. “Everything! Fourtrees, ThunderClan 
territory, and RiverClan and ShadowClan. And the 
Highstones.” His pelt pricked suddenly. “And the 
gorge.” 

“Ryepaw said you nearly fell into it.” Barkpaw 
rubbed green sap from his nose. 

“Is Ryepaw back already?” Tallpaw scanned the 
camp and spotted her sharing prey with Shrewpaw and 
Stagpaw outside the apprentices’ den. She had 
feathers in her whiskers. 

“She and Larksplash caught a grouse,” Barkpaw 
told him. 

Tallpaw could smell its scent wafting across the 
grass. His belly rumbled. “Do you want to share a 


mouse?” 

Barkpaw glanced back at the medicine den. ‘PH 
have to check with Hawkheart.” 

‘TIl fetch one from the prey heap.” Tallpaw headed 
across the grass. His paws stung and he almost 
tripped. 

“Are you okay?” Barkpaw darted in front of him. 
“Ts it a thorn?” 

“My pads are sore from walking.” Tallpaw lifted a 
forepaw and sniffed it gingerly. There was a faint 
scent of blood. 

Barkpaw leaned closer. “It’s just a bit grazed,” he 
told him. “Mine were the same after Hawkheart took 
me out herb-gathering the first time. Your pads will 
toughen up.” 

“Are you checking for sores, Wormpaw?” 
Shrewpaw was marching toward them, puffing 
feathers from his muzzle. 

“Stop calling me that!” Tallpaw glared at him. 
‘“Heatherstar made me a moor runner, remember?” 

“A real moor runner wouldn’t look so tired,” 
Shrewpaw snorted. “You were born to be a tunneler. 
Stick to digging, Wormpaw, and leave moor-running to 


cats with tougher pads.” 





“Wake up, sleepy slug. ” 

Tallpaw felt a paw brush his ear. Blinking, he jerked 
up his head. Sunshine was streaming under the gorse, 
flooding his nest. It silhouetted Dawnstripe at the den 
entrance. 


“I didn’t think anyone could sleep longer than 
Shrewpaw.” Dawnstripe flicked her tail. “But he’s 
been pacing the entrance with Hareflight since the sun 
touched the heather.” 

“He’s just showing off,” Tallpaw growled under his 
breath. He hauled himself to his paws. His muscles 
ached after yesterday’s trek and his pads were still 
sore. Why hadn’t Shrewpaw woken him? They were 
supposed to be training together. 

“Hurry up.” Dawnstripe turned and stalked away. 

Pelt pricking with irritation, Tallpaw clambered out 
of his nest. It wasn’t as soft as his nest in the nursery, 
or as warm. The gorse bush that overhung the 
apprentices’ den didn’t stop the breeze from swirling in 
straight over Tallpaw’s nest. By leaf-bare it would be 
freezing. Stagpaw, Doepaw, and Ryepaw had already 
made nests at the back of the den, pressed against the 
smooth boulder that held back the roots of the bush. 
Tallpaw eyed his denmates’ nests jealously and 
decided to collect heather and snagged wool as soon 
as he got the chance, to make his own nest so deep 
and well protected that no wind could reach through tt. 

“Stop dawdling, Tallpaw!” Hareflight called. 


Shrewpaw was pacing beside his mentor while 
Dawnstripe talked quietly with Cloudrunner, muzzles 
close. Stagpaw and Doepaw were at the prey heap 
sifting through yesterday’s catch, and Ryepaw was 
hauling a wad of sheepswool toward the elders’ den. 

Everyones been awake for ages! Tallpaw shook 
out his pelt and hurried toward Dawnstripe. He ached 
all over. “My legs hurt,” he complained. 

“They need exercise.” Dawnstripe’s gaze flicked 
toward him briefly before returning to Cloudrunner. 

“But they feel” 

Dawnstripe cut him off. “You’ll be okay once we’re 
out on the moor.” 

Tallpaw twitched his tail crossly. Palebird would 
have fussed over him. Sandgorse would have told him 
that it was growing pains and that he was turning into a 
fine warrior. 

Where is Sandgorse? Tallpaw scanned the 
clearing. He hadn’t seen his father since his naming 
ceremony. He’d gone to his nest straight after training 
yesterday and was asleep by the time Sandgorse’s 
patrol had returned from the tunnels. 

“You managed to wake up, then, Wormpaw.” 


Shrewpaw was staring at him. 

“Yeah, bug-breath,” Tallpaw hissed back. 

Dawnstripe spun around. “Only kits name-call,” she 
snapped. 

“Shrewpaw started it,” Tallpaw defended himself. 

Dawnstripe looked at him sternly. 

Shrewpaw’s whiskers twitched. “Perhaps tattlepaw 
should go back to the nursery.” 

Tallpaw dug his claws into the ground. He wanted to 
rake Shrewpaw’s nose. 

Dawnstripe stepped between them. “We’re meeting 
up with the older apprentices later, to help with their 
final assessment.” 

Tallpaw blinked. “How?” He pictured himself being 
mauled in a mock battle. 

“They need a lure for their tracking exercise,” 
Dawnstripe told him. 

Shrewpaw wove around Cloudrunner. “Can I help, 
too?” 

The pale gray tom dipped his head. “Ask 
Hareflight.” He turned to Dawnstripe. “Let’s meet at 
Outlook Rock.” 

“Okay,” Dawnstripe agreed. “I want Tallpaw to 


warm up first.” 

‘Tm already warm,” Tallpaw told her. The 
greenleaf sun was hot on his pelt, even though it had 
hardly lifted above the heather. 

“I meant I want you to stretch your muscles,” 
Dawnstripe told him. “You'll need to lose yesterday’s 
stiffness before you work with the older apprentices.” 

Tallpaw’s pelt burned, and not from the sunshine. 
He glared at Shrewpaw, ready for a stinging comment. 
A gray pelt slid in front of him, distracting him. 

“Hi, Hickorynose,” mewed Tallpaw. 

The tunneler padded past Tallpaw without speaking 
and pushed his way through the entrance tunnel. 
Sandgorse followed. 

Tallpaw darted forward. “Sandgorse!” 

But Sandgorse didn’t seem to hear him. Tallpaw 
stared in surprise as his father ducked into the tunnel 
and disappeared. 

Dawnstripe’s whiskers brushed his ear. “He must be 
thinking about the new tunnel,’ she murmured. 
“Mistmouse was saying they’ve reached a tricky seam 
of gravel.” 

“I guess.” Tallpaw stared sadly at the trembling 


heather. Were the tunnelers going to treat him like he 
was from a different Clan now? 

Hareflight marched past Shrewpaw. “Let’s get 
going.” 

Dawnstripe followed him. “Come on, Tallpaw. Let’s 
race some of that stiffness from your legs.” She 
ducked through the gap. Shrewpaw pushed in after 
her. Tallpaw followed, wondering if it was possible to 
race stiffness away. 

A light breeze whisked his ears as he emerged onto 
the smooth grass. He scanned the moor for a sign of 
Sandgorse, but his father had already disappeared. 
Dawnstripe’s golden tail flashed between two bushes. 
Tallpaw could hear paw steps thrumming, and raced 
after her. He zigzagged along the weaving track, 
narrowing his eyes against the twigs that lashed his 
face. Would he ever know all the trails on the moor as 
well as Dawnstripe seemed to? She ran ahead, sure- 
pawed, making each twist and turn as easily as a 
rabbit. Tallpaw felt awkward, jerking around the 
corners, tripping on roots, and trying not to fall. 

The trail lightened up ahead and the heather 
suddenly opened onto a clearing on the hillside. 


Dawnstripe skidded to a halt. “This is where you’ll do 
most of your training.” She nodded to the wide sweep 
of grass. Boulders clustered at the far end of the 
sheltered space. 

Hareflight and Shrewpaw burst from the heather 
behind them and stopped. Hareflight flicked his tail. 
“Three laps,” he ordered Shrewpaw. 

Shrewpaw tore away, following the line of bushes 
around the edge of the clearing. He sped over the 
grass, fast as a skimming bird. 

Tallpaw blinked at Dawnstripe. “Me too?” 

“Just once around,” she told him. 

Tallpaw hared after Shrewpaw as fast as he could. 
He didn’t want to lag behind his denmate. 

“Take it easy!” Dawnstripe called after him. 
“You're just warming up, remember?” 

So's Shrewpaw! Tallpaw raced harder. 

His lungs ached. A cramp stabbed his ribs. 
Shrewpaw was already halfway back. At this rate, the 
dark brown tom would lap him by the time he reached 
Dawnstripe. Tallpaw forced himself to keep going. The 
grass flashed beneath him as he fought for each 
breath. Shrewpaw slithered past Hareflight and 


Dawnstripe. Tallpaw began to gain ground. Dragging 
in another breath, he hurtled the last few tail-lengths 
and skidded to a halt beside Dawnstripe. 

He collapsed onto the grass, flanks heaving. “Fast, 
huh?” he gasped, pleased with his effort. 

“It’s not a race.” His mentor leaned over him. “The 
best warrior is the one who’s still fighting at the end of 
the battle. Don’t use up all your strength in the first 
fight.” 

Tallpaw looked up at her, eyes glazed as he panted. 

“Come on, Shrewpaw!” Hareflight called to his 
apprentice. “Longer strides!” 

“Watch him,” Dawnstripe ordered. “See how much 
land he covers with each step. Watch how he 
stretches forward each time his paws leave the 
ground. Speed is vital, but you need to be in control of 
the speed.” She nosed him to his paws. “You're fast, 
but you run like prey, not a hunter.” 

Hareflight was still watching Shrewpaw. “Nice 
paw-work,” he called as Shrewpaw swept past. 
Tallpaw felt the wind from his pelt. 

He watched how Shrewpaw curved his spine with 
each stride, stretching his forepaws and tucking his 


hind legs in close before thrusting himself out flat 
again. “Can I try again?” he asked Dawnstripe. 

“Got your breath back?” Dawnstripe asked. 

“Yes.” 

“Don’t aim for speed,’ Dawnstripe warned. “You 
need your strength later.” 

Tallpaw dipped his head and padded away. He 
broke into a run, not pushing hard at first but gaining 
rhythm and speed as he crossed the grass. He focused 
on each bound, curving his spine the same way 
Shrewpaw did, and reaching out with his forepaws a 
little farther before they touched the grass. He pushed 
harder with every stride until he was aware of nothing 
but the steady thrumming of his paws and the way his 
breath fell in time with his pace. He was suddenly 
moving with ease, as though the wind were carrying 
him while the grass slid beneath him like air beneath a 
swallow’s wings. 

“Very good!” Dawnstripe’s mew surprised him. 
He’d completed a circuit of the training ground already, 
so focused that he hadn’t seen her. He pulled up, 
slowing to a trot before turning and padding to her side. 

Hareflight dipped his head. “Nice work, Tallpaw.” 


“You learn quickly,’ Dawnstripe meowed. 

Shrewpaw slewed to a halt a few tail-lengths away. 
“Not bad for a tunneler.” 

I’m not a tunneler! Tallpaw choked back the 
words. 

Hareflight glanced up the hillside. “We should meet 
the others.” 

Tallpaw followed his gaze. “Is Outlook Rock over 
there?” He squinted across the heather but could see 
nothing but blue sky arcing over the moor. 

Dawnstripe headed up the slope. “T’ll show you.” 


Outlook Rock stuck out from the moor-top like a 
snipe’s beak. Below it, the land dropped away, the 
valley so steep and long that Tallpaw couldn’t tell 
whether the white shapes in the meadow below were 
sheep or dandelions. He padded gingerly over the 
stone, feeling the wind tug at his pelt as he peered over 
the edge. The whole world rolled out before him, 
fading against the clouds on the distant horizon. Dizzy, 
Tallpaw shrank back. What if a gust of wind lifted him 
off? The granite beneath his paws was too smooth to 
grip. 


“Look ahead, not down,” Dawnstripe warned from 
behind him. 

Tallpaw fixed his gaze on the horizon. Highstones 
gleamed palely in the sunshine. Beyond them, 
mountains nudged at the sky. Movement flickered at 
the corner of his vision and he found himself twitching, 
his gaze flitting from a wind-ruffled tree to a distant 
monster flashing along a Thunderpath. A buzzard 
swooped in the distance, snatching his attention up to 
the sky. 

“They’re coming!” Shrewpaw’s call made him turn. 

Cloudrunner, Aspenfall, and Larksplash were 
leading their apprentices up the slope. Dawnstripe 
beckoned Tallpaw with a flick of her tail and he hurried 
to her side as Stagpaw, Ryepaw, and Doepaw leaped 
onto Outlook Rock. The three apprentices looked 
somber and focused as they lined up along the rock 
and sat down. 

“What are they doing?” Tallpaw whispered to 
Dawnstripe. 

“They’re being tested on their observation skills,” 
Dawnstripe hissed back. “Keep quiet so you don’t 
disturb them.” 


Cloudrunner stood behind Stagpaw. “What do you 
see?” he asked his apprentice. 

“Red monster; lapwing diving for insects; a Twoleg 
walking across the Thunderpath.” Stagpaw leaned 
forward and squinted. “Dog running along a 
hedgerow.” 

“Which way?” Cloudrunner prompted. 

“Toward the scent line.” 

“How long before it reaches it?” 

“Long enough for a runner to fetch a patrol from 
camp.” 

“Good.” Cloudrunner looked over his shoulder at 
Aspenfall. “Doepaw’s turn.” 

“Twoleg climbing a fence; rogue crossing the 
Thunderpath.” 

Tallpaw watched her steadily scan the landscape. 
His attention had been caught by one movement after 
another, and his neck ached from jerking his head 
around. Doepaw seemed to be directing her gaze at 
each place in turn, picking objects out with fixed 
concentration before shifting her head. 

Ryepaw was even better. “The Twolegplace loner is 
sunning himself on his green-patch. There’s a heron 


fishing the stream beside Long Wall.” 

Dawnstripe leaned down to Tallpaw. “Ryepaw has 
the best eyesight in WindClan,” she whispered. 

Tallpaw glanced up as a buzzard swooped high 
overhead. Ryepaw’s gaze remained trained on the land 
stretching below her. “How come they don’t get 
distracted?” he asked. 

“Training,” Dawnstripe breathed. 

Larksplash padded from the rock. “Nice work,” she 
told Ryepaw. “Let’s test your hunting skills.” 

Tallpaw felt Dawnstripe press against him. “This is 
where you help out.” 

Tallpaw gulped. “How?” 

Cloudrunner paced around the older apprentices as 
they assembled on the grass, their eyes wide with 
anticipation. “We need to test your tracking skills.” His 
gaze flashed toward Tallpaw. “You'll be the rabbit, 
Tallpaw. Stagpaw, Ryepaw, and Doepaw will hunt 
you.” 

“They'll catch Tallpaw easily,’ Shrewpaw snorted. 
“I should be the rabbit.” 

Hareflight narrowed his eyes. “You’re good at open- 
running, Shrewpaw. But in the heather, I think Tallpaw 


will have the advantage.” 

Shrewpaw bristled. “Why?” 

“He’s smaller,’ Hareflight explained. “And more 
nimble.” 

Tallpaw’s heart was speeding. His denmates were 
going to hunt him? He leaned closer to Dawnstripe. 
“What will they do when they catch me?” he asked in 
a nervous whisper. 

Dawnstripe purred. “Don’t worry. They’re being 
tested on how they pursue you,” she whispered. “They 
need to work together to track you down. Aspenfall 
and Cloudrunner will be watching to see how they 
manage to stay out of sight while still giving one 
another tail signals.” 

“So I just need to keep running.” Tallpaw’s pelt 
tingled. He knew how to run! 

Cloudrunner flicked his tail. “Head for that boulder,” 
he told Tallpaw. 

Tallpaw narrowed his eyes. Beyond a vast stretch 
of heather and gorse he could just make out a tall stone 
standing against the sky. 

“Try to reach it without being caught.” Cloudrunner 
crossed the grass and whispered into Tallpaw’s ear. 


“Switch course a couple of times. Include a double- 
back. Make it as hard as you can for them to run you 
down.” 

Tallpaw nodded, dazed. At the last sunrise, he had 
been a kit, living with his mother in the nursery. This 
was his first ever taste of warrior training, and he was 
already being lined up as prey for bigger, stronger, 
faster cats. 

Its my second day. How am I going to outwit 
three trained apprentices? 





Tallpaw felt Dawnstripe’s tail sweep his spine. 
“You'll do fine,” she murmured. “Just keep moving, 
and think like a fox.” 

“A fox?” Tallpaw had no idea how a fox thought. 
He’d never even seen one. 


“Be smart.” Dawnstripe nosed him away. 

Tallpaw slid into the nearest bank of heather. Quiet 
as he could, he darted between two stems, hoping he’d 
find a rabbit trail that would lead closer to the rock. 
The gap opened for a few tail-lengths but ended in a 
thick gorse stump. Tallpaw’s heart quickened. The 
apprentices would find him straight away. Shrewpaw 
would laugh at him for the rest of the day—for the rest 
of their lives, probably. Tallpaw turned and pushed 
through the thick heather branches, wincing as he 
forced his way past. He struggled onward until finally 
he burst out into a gap between the bushes. 

A sharp tang touched his nose. Tiny dirt-berries! 
He’d found a rabbit track. The trail led among the 
stems. Tallpaw raced along it. Instinctively he kept low, 
crouching down so that his spine didn’t set the heather 
quivering and give his position away. 

Am I going the right way? Where ï the rock? 

He couldn’t see it through the heather, but if he 
stretched up his head to get his bearings, the others 
would spot him. He tasted the air, hoping for a clue. 
Peat and heather. And the familiar scent of Stagpaw. 
Was the young tom close? 


Tallpaw pushed on harder, twisting his ears back for 
sounds of pursuit. Paw steps thrummed behind him. 
Switch course. Cloudrunner’s instruction echoed in his 
ears as the path forked ahead. Tallpaw swerved, 
taking the trail that sloped upward. He could feel the 
ground trembling. More paw steps pounded behind. 
The apprentices were on his tail. 

The path sloped steeply, growing rocky, which 
forced Tallpaw to slow down so he didn’t trap his paw 
and break his leg. He told himself that his pursuers 
would have to slow down too. After a frantic scramble 
over the stones, the trail emerged from the heather 
onto a grassy hillside. Tallpaw flattened his ears and 
ran faster. Remembering his practice earlier, he 
lengthened his stride. The grass blurred beneath him. 
Snatching a breath, he glanced over his shoulder. 

Stagpaw exploded from the heather. Ryepaw and 
Doepaw fanned out behind. Tallpaw saw Stagpaw’s 
tail flick one way, then the other. They were planning 
to surround him! He swerved sideways, his paws 
skidding on the grass as he switched direction. Cutting 
across the apprentices’ path, he blocked their attempt 
to trap him from on both sides. 


“Come on, Stagpaw! Think!” Aspenfall called from 
higher up the slope. 

Wind streamed through Tallpaw’s_ whiskers. 
Exhilaration pulsed in his belly. He was running fast as 
a bird. But the apprentices were gaining on him. 

Double back. He was smaller than his pursuers, 
and that made him nimble. He slowed, gradually at 
first. They'll think they’ve outrun me. Tallpaw 
glanced over his shoulder, pleased to see triumph flash 
in Ryepaw’s eyes. She was in the lead now, Stagpaw 
racing just behind, matching her stride step for step. 
Beside him, Doepaw veered away. 

Tallpaw saw the she-cat narrow her eyes. Shes 
going to try to overtake me and block my path. 
Suddenly he slammed his paws hard into the grass. He 
spun around, leaving deep scars in the turf, and 
charged straight back toward the apprentices. Their 
eyes stretched wide in astonishment. 

Surprised, huh? Ears flat, tail streaking behind, 
Tallpaw raced down the slope through the gap 
between Stagpaw and Doepaw. 

“Don’t let a kit outpace you!” Cloudrunner yowled 
from above them. 


Kit? I’m an apprentice! Tallpaw sprinted down the 
hillside. The rock flashed at the edge of his vision. 
He’d have to change course to reach it. Stagpaw, 
Ryepaw, and Doepaw were still trying to turn, 
slithering clumsily on the grass behind him. Tallpaw 
needed to make a break for the rock before they found 
their footing. He darted sideways, his hind paws 
slipping out from under him. His belly hit the ground 
but he scrambled up and kept running. Stagpaw was 
pulling closer. He could hear the young tom’s breath. 
Ryepaw and Doepaw pounded at his tai. He was 
closing in on the rock. If he could just keep running, 
he’d make it. Excitement thrilled through him. 

Then paws grasped his flanks. A swift push sent 
him sideways. The world spun as Tallpaw tumbled 
over the grass and skidded to a halt. 

“Great chase!” Stagpaw leaned over him. 

“Are you okay?” Doepaw pushed past her brother 
and looked anxiously at Tallpaw. Ryepaw was just 
behind, panting too hard to speak. 

“Yeah, I’m fine.” Tallpaw scrambled to his paws, 
struggling to catch his breath. 

“Good work!” Cloudrunner ran across the grass 


toward them, Dawnstripe at his heels. 

“You nearly made it!” Tallpaw’s mentor skidded to a 
halt in front of him, her eyes shining. 

Stagpaw nudged him with a shoulder. “I thought 
you’d outrun us for a moment,” he panted. 

Aspenfall, Larksplash, and Hareflight pounded 
across the grass with Shrewpaw trotting behind much 
less eagerly. 

Hareflight reached them first. “That was 
impressive.” 

Shrewpaw glared at Tallpaw. “7 would have made it 
to the rock.” 

Doepaw swished her tail. “I don’t think so, small- 
paws.” 

Tallpaw wanted to purr, but he was still trying to get 
enough air inside him. 

Cloudrunner jerked his nose toward Fourtrees. 
“Let’s test your hunting skills.” 

Ears pricked, looking as if he’d done nothing more 
strenuous than chase a leaf, Stagpaw led the way 
down the slope. As the apprentices disappeared into 
the heather with their mentors, Dawnstripe tasted the 
air. “It smells like they’ ll find good hunting there.” 


Tallpaw stuck out his tongue. He couldn’t taste 
anything but the wind. 

Dawnstripe shook out her golden pelt. “Don’t worry, 
Tallpaw. Before long you'll be able to scent prey 
halfway across the moor.” 

‘T’m hungry.” Shrewpaw glanced hopefully at the 
thick line of trees running along the bottom of the 
moor. “Can we hunt too?” 

“Battle moves first,’ Hareflight told him. 

“With Tallpaw?” Shrewpaw’s tail drooped. “He 
won’t know any.” 

Hareflight glared at his apprentice. “Then teach him 
some.” 

Shrewpaw stomped across the grass and stood a 
tai-length away. His brown pelt looked like a stray 
piece of wood against the windswept moor. 

Dawnstripe swept Tallpaw forward with her tail. 
“He’ll need to learn defensive moves first,” she called 
to Shrewpaw. “Attack him, but don’t forget that it’s his 
first session.” She nodded to Tallpaw. “The simplest 
defense is to raise your forepaws. Don’t jab out wildly. 
Focus on protecting your muzzle and pushing your 
attacker away.” 


Tallpaw nodded, trying to remember everything 
Dawnstripe was saying. He could still feel his heart 
pounding from the chase. He curled his hind claws into 
the grass to steady himself, then fixed his gaze on 
Shrewpaw. 

Shrewpaw’s eyes glittered. “Ready?” 

Tallpaw nodded. Letting out a ferocious yowl, 
Shrewpaw flew toward him. Tallpaw gasped and lifted 
his paws. He was too slow. Claws raked his nose. 
With a yelp, Tallpaw tripped over his own tail and 
rolled onto the grass. 

“Shrewpaw!” Hareflight’s mew was sharp. 
“Dawnstripe warned you that it’s Tallpaw’s first time.” 

As Tallpaw scrambled to his paws, he saw 
Shrewpaw roll his eyes. “Why do I get stuck training 
with a kit?” 

Tallpaw faced him, nose stinging. “I’m not a kit,” he 
hissed. “Try again.” 

Shrewpaw crouched, wiggling his hindquarters. 
Tallpaw watched him. As Shrewpaw leaped, he reared 
and lifted his forepaws, quicker this time. Shrewpaw 
hit him more slowly and Tallpaw found it easy to flip 
him away with a sharp shove. As Shrewpaw rolled 


dramatically onto the grass beside him, Tallpaw felt a 
twinge of satisfaction. 

Then claws jabbed his ribs. Tallpaw gasped. 
Shrewpaw had thrust out a hind leg as he rolled and 
caught him in the side. 

“Sorry!” Shrewpaw jumped up. “It was an 
accident.” 

Yeah, right. Tallpaw narrowed his eyes. J bet we ’re 
supposed to keep our claws sheathed in practice! 

“Try it again,’ Dawnstripe encouraged. “This time, 
move as you push him away, Tallpaw. You need to land 
ready for the next attack.” 

Tallpaw nodded and faced Shrewpaw once more. 
Shrewpaw’s tail-tip was flicking. You still think I’m a 
tunneler. Tallpaw flexed his claws, fighting the urge to 
unsheathe them. PIU show you. 

Shrewpaw sprang into the air. Tallpaw froze for 
moment, then, seeing daylight beneath the young tom’s 
belly, he ducked beneath it and bucked like a rabbit. He 
felt Shrewpaw’s weight on his back, and pushed his 
spine into his denmate’s belly. Shrewpaw yelped as 
Tallpaw tossed him backward. Tallpaw turned on his 
hind paws. Shrewpaw was writhing on the grass. 


Tallpaw reared over him and Shrewpaw stared up, his 
eyes wide with shock. 

Forepaws raised, Tallpaw showed his teeth for a 
moment before dropping onto all fours and padding 
away. “How was that?” he asked Dawnstripe. 

Dawnstripe blinked at him. “Not exactly what I 
expected.” 

“It was excellent,’ Hareflight purred. “Great work, 
Tallpaw.” 

Shrewpaw clambered to his paws, scowling. “He 
was supposed to be practicing defense moves, not 
attack.” 

Tallpaw prickled. Everything he did seemed to 
annoy Shrewpaw. He lifted his chin. “I was defending 
myself. It’s not my fault if you can’t keep your 
balance.” 

“You cheated, Wormpaw.” Shrewpaw stalked past 
him and pushed into the heather. “Can we get 
something to eat now?” 

Dawnstripe and Hareflight exchanged glances 
before Hareflight hurried to catch up with his 
apprentice. 

“Well done, Tallpaw.” Dawnstripe fell in beside him 


as they followed the others along a narrow trail. 

“Thanks.” Satisfaction warmed Tallpaw’s pelt. 

‘Don’t worry about Shrewpaw,”’ Dawnstripe 
reassured him. “He’s used to training with older 
apprentices. Hareflight will have a word with him 
about his attitude.” 

“A tabby can’t change his stripes.” Tallpaw sniffed. 
“Shrewpaw was born with a burr in his fur. PI just 
have to put up with it.” 


“Come and share this rabbit!” Barkpaw called from 
beside the Hunting Stones as Tallpaw ducked into 
camp. The scent of fresh prey reached Tallpaw’s 
tongue. He bounded over the tussocks and stopped in 
the patch of sunshine where Barkpaw was tearing 
flesh from a rabbit carcass. Suddenly realizng how 
tired he was, Tallpaw flopped down beside his friend. 

“Here.” Barkpaw shoved the rabbit toward Tallpaw. 

“Thanks.” Tallpaw leaned forward and took a bite. 

“How was training?” Barkpaw asked. 

Tallpaw glanced at Shrewpaw, who was sniffing 
disdainfully at a vole on the prey-heap. He wished he 
could tell Barkpaw what a pain in the tail Shrewpaw 


had been. But they were littermates. And a true 
warrior didn’t complain about his Clanmates. “It was 
great.” The memory of chasing across the grass with 
the apprentices at his heels thrilled Tallpaw once more. 
He felt a stab of delight as he remembered flipping 
Shrewpaw onto his back. “T learned a lot.” 

Barkpaw took another bite of rabbit. “I learned how 
to make a dressing for scratches today,’ he told 
Tallpaw with his mouth full. “It draws infection out of 
rotten wounds.” 

Tallpaw’s belly tightened. “That sounds . . .” He 
searched for words while he fought back queasiness. 
“|... interesting.” I’m glad I’m training as a warrior. 

“I made it for Whiteberry’s ear.” Barkpaw kept on 
chewing. “He’s got an infected tick bite. I added 
juniper sap. That'll loosen the tick. It was so swollen I 
thought its skin would burst.” 

Tallpaw stared at him, the scent of rabbit suddenly 
making him feel sick. “How’s Hawkheart?” he asked, 
changing the subject. 

“He’s a really good teacher,” Barkpaw mewed. “It’s 
hard keeping up but I’m learning so much.” 

Tallpaw noticed Shrewpaw heading toward them. 


Ignoring his queasiness, he took a bite of rabbit. 
Shrewpaw reached them as he was swallowing. The 
dark brown tom flung a mouse onto the ground. “Have 
you cured anyone yet?” he asked, settling down beside 
Barkpaw. 

Barkpaw swallowed. “I wont know until 
tomorrow.” 

Tallpaw pulled another mouthful of flesh from the 
rabbit. Shrewpaw munched on his mouse. Barkpaw 
glanced uneasily from one to the other before blurting 
out, “It must be fun training together.” 

Tallpaw met Shrewpaw’s gaze, wondering what the 
brown tom would say. 

Shrewpaw shrugged. “It’s okay.” 

Tallpaw blinked, surprised at Shrewpaw’s reply. 
“Yeah,” he agreed. Why should they make Barkpaw 
worry that they weren’t getting along? 

He ate till his belly was full, then heaved himself to 
his paws. “I’m going to stretch my legs,” he told 
Barkpaw. “I don’t want to stiffen up. Dawnstripe’s 
taking me out again later.” He nodded at Shrewpaw 
and headed across camp. 

Palebird was crouching outside the nursery. 


Meadowslip paced beside her. The gray queen had 
only just moved to the nursery, swollen with 
Hickorynose’s kits. Her belly swayed as she padded 
back and forth, tail twitching and ears flicking as if she 
was too restless to sit still. 

Palebird gazed blankly across the camp. Tallpaw 
frowned. Why wasn’t his mother restless, too? Didn’t 
she ever wish she were out on the moor? Or back in 
the tunnels? Wasn’t she bored stuck in camp? 

Tallpaw stopped beside her. “You should come and 
watch me train.” 

“What, dear?” Palebird looked up at him 
distractedly. 

“It’d be good for you to get out of the camp.” 

Brackenwing leaped out of the Meeting Hollow and 
hurried over. “Don’t bother Palebird,’ she warned. 
“She needs rest.” 

Tallpaw scowled. Shes been resting for six 
moons. She must have recovered from kitting by 
now. 

“She hasn’t been sleeping wel,’ Meadowslip 
explained. 

“Tell me about it later, Tallpaw,” Palebird murmured. 


“T’m sure you’ve had fun.” 

Tallpaw’s tail whipped crossly and he slouched 
away from the nursery, eyeing Barkpaw and 
Shrewpaw. They were chattering like thrushes now 
that he was gone. 

Behind him, Tallpaw could hear Meadowslip talking 
to Palebird and Brackenwing. “Do you think the 
visitors will return this greenleaf?” 

Tallpaw’s ears pricked. Visitors? 

‘Tm sure they will” Brackenwing answered the 
young queen. “I can’t remember a time that they 
didn’t.” 

Tallpaw stopped and sat down. He needed a wash 
after his meal. He might as well wash here, where he 
could listen to the queens. 

“I hope Wee Hen made it through leaf-bare.” 
Brackenwing lowered her voice. “She was very frail 
last time we saw her.” 

“Whiteberry will be disappointed if she doesn’t 
come,” Meadowslip commented. 

Tallpaw cleaned his muzzle with a freshly licked 
paw. 

Brackenwing purred. “Wee Hen and Whiteberry 


could swap stories from dawn to dusk. There was talk 
of her settling with the Clan once.” 

“Settling with us?” Meadowslip sounded shocked. 
“How would we explain her to the other Clans?” 

“WindClan wouldn’t be the first to take in a rogue,” 
Brackenwing pointed out. 

“But we’re the only Clan that lets visitors share our 
dens and our prey every greenleaf;’ Meadowslip 
replied. “What would the other Clans say? What if 
they thought we were training rogues to attack them?” 

Tallpaw lapped the fur along his spine as it lifted 
with interest. He’d never heard of visitors living with 
the Clan. Why hadn’t anyone mentioned them before? 

“Who cares what the other Clans say?” 
Brackenwing sniffed. “They huddle in the marshes and 
woods, hiding like prey from the wind and the sun. We 
live with our tails touching the sky. If we want to share 
our territory, that’s our choice.” 

“Tallpaw!” Dawnstripe called from the camp 
entrance. Tallpaw jumped to his paws, his fur still wet 
from washing. Dawnstripe’s whiskers twitched as she 
beckoned him with her tail. “Put your tongue away and 
let’s practice some battle moves.” 


Tallpaw hurried after her as she ducked through the 
heather. “Who are the greenleaf visitors?” he asked as 
he caught up to her on the smooth grass outside camp. 

Dawnstripe paused, her eyes narrowing. “Who told 
you about the greenleaf visitors?” 

“Meadowslip and Brackenwing were talking,” he 
told her. 

“You shouldn’t eavesdrop.” 

“I wasn’t,’ Tallpaw protested. “They weren’t 
exactly whispering.” He frowned at Dawnstripe. “Are 
the visitors a secret?” 

“We don’t talk about them when they’re not here, 
and especially not outside the Clan.” Dawnstripe 
headed along the sheep trail that wound through the 
gorse patch. 

Tallpaw trotted after her. “Why do they come?” 

Dawnstripe didn’t look back. “They just always 
have.” 

“Do they live in camp with us?” 

“Just for greenleaf.” 

“Do they join patrols and hunt for the Clan?” 

“Sometimes.” 

Tallpaw stopped. “Are they rogues?” He stared 


after Dawnstripe. Why was she acting like he’d 
discovered a secret? If they came every greenleaf, he 
was bound to know eventually. 

Dawnstripe halted and turned around. “I guess you 
could call them rogues. They don’t follow the Clan 
code.” 

‘Do we have to let them stay with us?” Tallpaw 
unsheathed his claws. Did WindClan really let a band 
of rogues take over their camp and their prey every 
greenleaf? 

Dawnstripe swished her tail. “Of course not. We 
choose to let them stay, and make them welcome.” 

“But rogues are bad, aren’t they?” Tallpaw tipped 
his head on one side. 

“Not all rogues are bad.” Dawnstripe kept going 
along the trail. “Not these rogues.” 

Tallpaw trotted after her. “Then why’s it such a 
secret?” 

“It’s best the other Clans don’t know.” 

“Why?” Is WindClan breaking the warrior code? 

“You sound like a kit.” Dawnstripe nosed her way 
out onto a stretch of grass. “Stop asking questions and 
show me that move you used on Shrewpaw_ this 


morning.” 





Tallpaw paced the camp entrance. Dew soaked his 
paws. The sun was just lifting over the horizon. Its 
rays spilled over the heather, setting the purple flowers 
alight until the moor glowed. Tallpaw was the first cat 
awake, eager to leave for the dawn patrol. He’d poked 


Shrewpaw as he padded out of the den, but the dark 
brown apprentice was still half asleep. Through the 
gap beneath the gorse, Tallpaw could see him blinking 
groggily over the edge of his nest. 

The long grass rustled beside the Meeting Hollow 
and Dawnstripe slid out. She yawned and stretched, 
then padded over the tussocks. “Good morning, 
Tallpaw.” 

“Hi, Dawnstripe.” Tallpaw flicked his tail. “Are we 
going to check all the borders?” This was his first 
dawn patrol. 

Dawnstripe shook her head. “That would take too 
long.” She jerked her muzzle toward the long grass 
where more cats were emerging into the open. 
“Stagleap, Ryestalk, and Larksplash will patrol the 
moor-edge and gorge with us. Hareflight, Shrewpaw, 
Doespring, and Appledawn will re-mark the borders 
near Fourtrees and ShadowClan.” 

Shrewpaw padded, yawning, from the apprentices’ 
den. “Is there time to raid the prey heap before we 
leave?” His belly growled. 

Tallpaw glanced across the clearing. There was only 
a stiff vole and a squashed mouse in the pile. “Perhaps 


you’ Il catch something while you’ re patrolling.” 

Dawnstripe’s ear twitched. “No hunting until the 
borders have been checked.” 

Shrewpaw’s belly rumbled louder. 

“Heatherstar will send out a hunting patrol soon.” 
Dawnstripe tipped her head sympathetically. “There” Il 
be prey on the heap by the time you get back.” 

“How can you be hungry?” Tallpaw was too excited 
to eat. He padded around Dawnstripe. 

Shrewpaw sat down and began to wash his face. 
“T’ve done dawn patrol before, remember?” 

“You can’t be bored of it!” Tallpaw tasted the air, 
wondering what the moor was like this early. “What if 
we see an intruder?” he asked Dawnstripe. “Can we 
chase it?” 

“Larksplash is leading the patrol,’ Dawnstripe 
meowed. “You'll have to ask her.” 

Larksplash was already heading toward them. 
Tallpaw raced to meet her. “If we spot an intruder, can 
we chase it?” 

“It depends.” Larksplash padded past him. 

Tallpaw bounced after her. “On what?” 

“On whether it’s a sheep or a dog or a rogue.” 


Larksplash stopped beside Dawnstripe. “If it’s a threat 
to the Clan, then we chase it.” 

Tallpaw’s imagination began to whirl. What if they 
surprised a RiverClan patrol trying to invade the moor? 
What if a stray dog needed to be chased off? “When 
are we leaving?” he mewed to Dawnstripe. 

Larksplash answered. “When Ryestalk and Stagleap 
stop gossiping and join us.” 

The young warriors stood at the top of the Meeting 
Hollow with Doespring. They’d been warriors for a 
half moon. Tallpaw had watched their ceremony, 
secretly proud that he’d helped with their assessment. 
He’d nearly outrun them then, and he was even faster 
now. With a little more training, he was sure he’d be 
the fastest cat in the Clan. 

“Ryestalk!” Larksplash flicked her tail and the gray 
she-cat looked up. 

“Coming!” Ryestalk leaped over the tussocks with 
Stagleap close behind. “Sorry!” She skidded to a halt 
on the wet grass. 

Stagleap’s eyes brightened. “Is Tallpaw patrolling 
with us?” 

“Yes.” Tallpaw puffed out his chest. 


“Want to race?” Stagleap plucked the ground 
excitedly. 

“Yes, please—” 

Larksplash_ stepped between them. “We’re 
patrolling, not racing,’ she meowed sternly. “I want 
your attention focused on the borders.” 

Tallpaw glanced at his paws, peeking at Stagleap 
from under his fur. 

The dark brown tom’s whiskers were twitching with 
amusement. “Sorry, Larksplash.” He straightened his 
tail respectfully, but his whiskers kept twitching. 

Tallpaw swallowed a purr. “No racing, I promise. 
No having fun whatsoever on the dawn patrol.” 

Huffing, Larksplash turned away and headed 
through the entrance. 

Ryestalk brushed past Tallpaw. “She doesn’t mean 
to be bad-tempered,” she whispered. “She’s just not a 
dawn cat.” 

“I know the feeling.” Shrewpaw stared blearily at 
the rest of his patrol as they headed toward him. 

“You'll feel better once the wind’s in your fur,” 
Ryestalk promised as she followed Dawnstripe through 
the entrance. 


Outside, the air was sweet with heather blossom. 
The sun was climbing into a pale blue sky. Tallpaw 
narrowed his eyes against the glare. He could make 
out pockets of mist pooling in dips and hollows across 
the moor. Heat would burn them away before long. It 
was going to be another scorching day. 

Tallpaw felt the breeze in his tail. “Which way?” he 
asked Larksplash. 

She was already heading upslope, toward the high- 
moor. “We’ll reset the markers along the Thunderpath 
first.” 

“But there’s no Clan beyond that border.” Tallpaw 
caught up to her, weaving around a clump of heather to 
stay near her. “Why do we have to mark it?” 

“There are rogues and loners out there,” Larksplash 
reminded him. “It’s only fair to warn them that they’ ve 
reached Clan territory.” 

I thought we welcomed rogues. Tallpaw glanced 
over his shoulder at Dawnstripe. She was watching the 
horizon. Was she looking out for ther greenleaf 
visitors? 

Stagleap caught up. “I know you said no racing.” 
He turned his round, amber gaze on Larksplash. “But 


we’re not at the border yet.” 

Ryestalk popped up beside her brother. “We’d get 
there quicker if we ran.” 

Larksplash rolled her eyes. “Okay, then. But don’t 
get too excited, and be careful of the Thunderpath.” 

“We’re not paws anymore,” Stagleap retorted. 

“Tallpaw is,’ Larksplash reminded him. “So be 
careful.” 

Stagleap caught Tallpaw’s eye. “Ready?” 

“Ready!” Tallpaw tensed, feeling energy surge 
beneath his pelt. 

“Go!” Ryestalk crashed away through the heather. 

Stagleap chose a wider course, skirting the bushes 
and charging for the stretch of grass beyond. Grass 
makes for easier running. Tallpaw raced after 
Stagpaw. His paws skidded in the dew as he swerved 
around the heather. Ryestalk exploded from the bushes 
beside him as he veered onto Stagleap’s trail. She 
whisked past him with a yowl of triumph. Tallpaw dug 
in his claws and pushed harder. 

The ground sloped steeply ahead of them. Ryestalk 
pounded over the grass but she couldn’t match her 
brother’s strength. Stagleap streaked higher. Stretching 


farther with each stride, Tallpaw found his rhythm until 
he was skimming the ground, hardly touching it with his 
paws. Wind streamed through his whiskers as he ran 
past Ryestalk. Stagleap was only a tail-length ahead. 
The top of the moor loomed above him, the blue sky 
stretching out endlessly beyond. 

As Tallpaw drew closer, Stagleap crested the rise 
and began to charge down the other side. Tallpaw 
glanced back. Ryestalk was lagging but she put on a 
spurt of energy to crest the rise and hurtled down after 
them. The slope gave Stagleap an extra burst of speed. 
His wide shoulders and stocky build might slow him 
uphill, but here he could use his strength to race harder 
than ever. 

Tallpaw lengthened his stride, but Stagpaw was 
pulling farther ahead. As the slope flattened out beside 
the Thunderpath, the young warrior slowed to a halt 
and lifted his tail in victory. 

“Nice try,” Stagleap puffed as Tallpaw reached him. 

‘TIl get you one day,” Tallpaw panted. 

Ryestalk pulled up beside them. “I’m hopeless on 
grass!” She struggled to get her breath. “I’d rather 
sprint over rabbit trails.” 


“Youre better at twists and turns,” Stagleap agreed. 
“Next time we’ll race through heather.” 

The Thunderpath glittered in the sunshine a few tail- 
lengths away. Tallpaw looked along it as he caught his 
breath. He’d never been this close. “Where are the 
monsters?” It was deserted. 

“They come later,” Stagleap told him. 

Ryestalk glanced over her shoulder. “We’ve passed 
the scent line.” 

Tallpaw tasted the air. The acrid tang of the 
Thunderpath mingled with stale WindClan scent. 

“Let’s start resetting the markers.” Stagleap turned 
back. “Before Larksplash gets hissy.” 

As Tallpaw followed, he spotted Dawnstripe’s 
golden pelt flash farther up the slope. She was 
bounding toward him, her tail bushed. “I don’t want to 
see you so near to the Thunderpath again!” she 
snapped as she reached him. 

Tallpaw stared at her in surprise. “But it’s 
deserted.” 

“Monsters travel as fast as birds. And they’re 
bigger than you can imagine.” Dawnstripe glared at 
him. 


“But it’s—” 

Dawnstripe narrowed her eyes. “When I tell you 
something, you listen; you don’t argue.” 

Tallpaw’s throat tightened with anger but he 
swallowed it back. J can t wait to be a warrior! 


Tallpaw helped the young moor runners to mark the 
border that ran level with the Thunderpath, following 
the high-moor toward the gorge. 

I’m bored. Tallpaw stopped to spray another clump 
of heather. Wearily he watched Larksplash double 
back to follow yet another scent trail that had crossed 
the boundary. At this rate, they’d be marking borders 


till nightfall. 

“Is that RiverClan?” Dawnstripe called after 
Larksplash. 

The tortoiseshell warrior sniffed the heather. “Just a 
Twoleg.” 


“Did they have a dog with them?” Ryestalk hurried 
to taste the scent. 

Larksplash shook her head. 

Stagleap climbed a hummock and lifted his chin. 
“There’s been no dog on this part of the moor in a 


moon.” 

Ryestalk looked at him. “Since you started 
patrolling, I suppose.” 

“Can we keep moving?” Tallpaw’s legs itched. He 
wanted to run. Why couldn’t they find a fresh rabbit 
scent—something he could chase? 

Stagleap bounded from the hummock and marched 
along the scent line, tail high. “They’re scared of my 
scent.” 

“Who are?” Tallpaw was puzzled. “Rabbits?” 

Stagleap flashed him a look. “Dogs!” 

Tallpaw snorted, ducking as Stagleap launched a 
play attack and swiped his ears. 

“We’re patrolling the border,’ Dawnstripe reminded 
them sternly. 

Tallpaw frowned. Weren’t they allowed to have any 
fun? He stopped and sprayed a gorse stem 
halfheartedly. 

In the distance he could hear water. At least they 
were nearly at the gorge. After that, they could head 
for camp and do some proper training. He followed 
Larksplash as she disappeared into a patch of heather. 
He pushed through the whippy branches, the rest of 


the patrol at his heels. The path wound through 
hummocks, spiky twigs pressing in on all sides. The 
pollen-heavy blossom made Tallpaw sneeze, and he 
was relieved when the heather opened onto grass near 
the cliff top. 

Larksplash, Ryestalk, and Dawnstripe fanned out 
and sniffed at the scent line that ran along the top of 
the gorge. Tallpaw crept forward and peered over the 
edge. Greenleaf had calmed the water and it flowed 
smoothly far below, winding between the cliffs. “Is it 
deep?” he asked Stagleap. 

Stagleap shrugged. “How would I know?” 

Tallpaw scanned the sheer rock face, spotting a 
narrow ledge at the water’s edge. It ran the whole 
length of the gorge, opening out at the end onto 
grassland. “Have you ever been down there?” 

Stagleap shook his head. “It’s too dangerous in leaf- 
bare. In newleaf, there’s snowmelt and the river 
covers it.” 

“But it’s a good route to get to the Twoleg bridge 
without being seen by RiverClan.” Tallpaw nodded 
toward the wooden pathway spanning the river, just 
visible beyond the gorge. 


“Are you planning to invade RiverClan territory?” 
Stagleap teased. 

As he spoke, Tallpaw felt a faint shudder in the 
ground beneath him. His fur lifted along his spine. 
“What was that?” 

Before Stagleap could answer, yowls echoed behind 
them. Tallpaw spun around, scanning the moor. He 
could see nothing but birds swooping across the 
heather. Larksplash tasted the air. The yowls sounded 
again, deep and hollow, strangely muffled. 

Ryestalk’s gray fur stood on end. “What is that?” 

Tallpaw darted to the edge of the gorge and looked 
over. Was someone calling from the bottom? 

“It’s coming from here!” Dawnstripe was sniffing at 
a rabbit hole a few taillengths away. She backed 
away as the yowls grew louder. 

Sandgorse burst out of the hole. Fur spiked up, eyes 
wide, he glanced over his shoulder as Mistmouse 
hurtled out on his heels. “Are you okay?” He circled 
his mud-streaked tunnelmate, sniffing her anxiously. 

“T’m fine,” she panted. Her pelt was thick with mud. 

Sandgorse stuck his head down the hole and 
yowled. Tallpaw pricked his ears as distant yowls 


sounded back. 

“They’re safe.” Sandgorse straightened up. He 
seemed to notice Larksplash for the first time. “Just a 
cave-in. The others are safe. Hickorynose and 
Woollytail are experts. They’ll find their way out 
through a lower entrance if they need to.” He shook 
out his pelt. 

Tallpaw rushed over to his father. “What 
happened?” 

Sandgorse touched his nose to Tallpaw’s head. “Too 
much sunshine,” he explained matter-of-factly. “Makes 
the soil shrink. Rocks drop and we get cave-ins.” He 
looked at the wide, blue sky. “We could sure use a few 
days of rain.” 

Tallpaw winced. What if Sandgorse had been 
caught in the cave-in? In the last half-moon, he’d been 
aware of more and more distance between himself and 
his father. Sandgorse spoke to him, but not often, and 
not with the warmth he’d had before. If he could just 
see how well Tallpaw was doing with his training, he 
would understand that he had chosen the right path, 
and everything would be okay again. 

Sandgorse padded away, weaving between 


Dawnstripe and Stagleap. “Are you patrolling the 
borders?” 

“We’ve nearly finished,’ Dawnstripe told him. “No 
sign of intruders.” 

The tunneler gazed across the heather. ““We’ve been 
digging all night.” 

Ryestalk blinked at him. “Aren’t you tired?” 

Sandgorse’s eyes shone. “We’re so close to 
breaking through to the gorge.” His ears twitched 
excitedly. “I’m not resting till it’s done.” 

Mistmouse peered down the tunnel. “What about 
the cave-in?” 

“We’ll clear it in no time.” Sandgorse nosed past 
her, his mew echoing as he stuck his head into the 
hole. “The soils light. It’Il be easy to burrow through.” 
He ducked out and looked at Dawnstripe. “This is the 
perfect time to give Tallpaw some tunneling 
experience.” 

Tallpaw’s pelt bristled. He forced it flat. “But we’re 
patrolling the borders.” 

Sandgorse kept his gaze on Dawnstripe. “You said 
you'd nearly finished.” 

Dawnstripe glanced at Tallpaw. “Heatherstar does 


want every warrior to spend a day underground,” she 
conceded. 

“At least a day.” There was an edge to Sandgorse’s 
mew. “How will moor runners appreciate the 
importance of the tunnels if they don’t know what it’s 
like to be underground?” 

“Of course.” Dawnstripe shifted her paws. 

Please, no, Tallpaw begged her silently. 

“Then it’s settled.” Sandgorse beckoned Tallpaw 
with a flick of his tail. 

Tallpaw looked hopefully at Dawnstripe. “Ts it?” 

“You might as well go with him.” Dawnstripe dipped 
her head. “When you’re finished, come and find me in 
camp.” 

“Okay.” Swallowing, Tallpaw padded toward his 
father. The rabbit hole loomed in front of him like a 
black mouth sucking him in. There can t be more than 
one cave-in today, surely? 

Sandgorse purred. “I’m glad you finally have a 
chance to see what tunneling’s all about.” For the first 
time in a half moon he gazed at Tallpaw with pride. 

Tallpaw gritted his teeth. He couldn’t let his father 
down now. “I’m looking forward to it,’ he lied. 


Perhaps once he was underground, he’d understand 
why his father thought being a tunneler was so special. 





“You first, Mistmouse.”’ Sandgorse stood aside to 
let the pale tabby she-cat scramble into the burrow. 
Behind her, Tallpaw paused. “Go on,” Sandgorse 
urged. “Don’t let the darkness put you off. Remember 
you have ears and whiskers as well as eyes.” 


Tallpaw crept in. The earth was loose beneath his 
paws and he unsheathed his claws, digging them in to 
stop himself from sliding as the tunnel sloped steeply 
down. Blackness wrapped around him as the entrance 
faded behind. Tallpaw strained to see the walls of the 
tunnel, or where he was placing his feet, but no light 
eased the darkness. He could hear his father behind 
him, Sandgorse’s breath warm on his tail as the air at 
his muzzle turned cold. Tallpaw’s pelt, hot from the sun 
a few moments ago, felt the chill, and he bushed out 
his fur. 

Sandgorse purred. “If you think this is cold, wait till 
were deeper.” Tallpaw tried not to imagine it. 
“Listen.” Sandgorse paused. Tallpaw stood still. He 
could hear Mistmouse’s fur brushing the walls ahead. 

“Wait, Mistmouse!” Sandgorse called. Her paw 
steps stilled. “Can you hear it?” Sandgorse asked. 

Tallpaw pricked his ears. “Hear what?” 

“Keep listening.” 

Tallpaw strained to hear, closing his eyes to block 
out the stifling darkness. Muffled paw steps sounded at 
the edge of his hearing. 

“That’s your patrol, heading along the gorge,” 


Sandgorse mewed softly. 

“How do you know?” Tallpaw whispered. 

“Three sets of paw steps, heading away from us.” 

Tallpaw was impressed. “It could have been 
rabbits,” he suggested. 

“No.” Sandgorse shifted his paws. “They thump; 
they don’t patter.” 

“Can you tell if it’s sheep?” 

“Of course. Their steps are harder, while a dog’s 
resonate more deeply in the earth.” 

Mistmouse moved ahead of them, stirring the 
darkness with thicker shadows. “Your father can tell 
ThunderClan paw steps from WindClan,” she told 
Tallpaw with a hint of pride. 

Sandgorse’s tail whisked the side of the tunnel. 
“ThunderClan high-step like deer,” he growled. “When 
they pass overhead on the way to the Moonstone, they 
prance over us like they own the moor.” 

“Typical ThunderClan,” Mistmouse huffed. 

Sandgorse snorted. “They have no idea we can 
track them from underground. We know exactly when 
they arrive and when they leave WindClan territory.” 

“We’d know if they dared stop to hunt,” Mistmouse 


added. 

Tallpaw felt a nudge from behind. “Let’s get going,” 
Sandgorse prompted. “Hickorynose and Woollytail are 
probably already digging through the cave-in from the 
other side. They’ ll need our help.” 

Tallpaw blinked, wishing his eyes would adjust to the 
darkness. But without a spark of light, he began to 
realize that he was utterly blind here. Mistmouse’s 
paws scurried ahead and Tallpaw followed, pressing 
back the queasy feeling in his belly. Sandgorse wont 
let anything happen to me. 

Tallpaw’s whiskers dragged along the tunnel sides, 
sending shivers through his fur. A sudden gap in the 
wall on one side surprised him, along with the blast of 
cold air that struck his flank. 

“That tunnel leads toward the high-moor,” 
Sandgorse told him. 

“Do you know where you are all the time?” Tallpaw 
was amazed. He felt as helpless as a mouse—as 
though the earth had swallowed him like prey. 

“Every tunneler knows each twist and turn,” 
Sandgorse meowed. “We can get to any part of our 
territory from here, and cross any border.” 


Tallpaw’s thoughts quickened. Having the tunnels 
meant that WindClan could thwart any invasion and 
outwit any enemy. No wonder the tunnelers defended 
their skills so fiercely. “Has Heatherstar been in the 
tunnels?” he asked. 

“She comes on patrol occasionally,’ Sandgorse 
replied. “But she doesn’t really understand the 
darkness, or the power it gives to a warrior. She’s a 
moor runner who can only imagine hunting and fighting 
overground.” 

“T can hear them.” Mistmouse slowed down. 

Tallpaw nearly bumped into her. Stopping clumsily, 
he strained his ears and heard muffled mews ahead. 
He felt Sandgorse press behind him. 

“Make way, Tallpaw.” Tallpaw squeezed against the 
side of the passage to let his father pass. “They’re 
digging,” Sandgorse reported. “We should start work 
this side and meet them in the middle.” 

Tallpaw heard Mistmouse begin scooping earth with 
her front paws. The tunnel was wider here. Tallpaw 
could feel space around his whiskers. There was 
enough room for Sandgorse and Mistmouse to work 
side by side. 


“We always work in twos,” Sandgorse told Tallpaw, 
pushing a heap of dirt back toward him. “Tf there’s a 
cave-in, you never leave your companion. It’s the most 
important rule of tunneling. Another cat’s life is as 
precious as your own. Never forget it for a moment.” 

Mistmouse chimed in. “One tunneler dies; two 
tunnelers survive.” 

Tallpaw reached for the earth Sandgorse had kicked 
back to him. “What do I do with this?” Surely it was 
dumb just to fill up the space behind? 

“Spread it out,’ Sandgorse told him. “As thin as you 
can, even if it means dragging it right back up the 
tunnel.” 

Tallpaw was still pushing loose soil around when he 
heard a stone scraping earth. He felt its hardness 
against his muzzle as Sandgorse pushed it back toward 
him. “How do I get rid of stones?” Tallpaw called. 

“Press it into a crevice, if you can find one,” 
Sandgorse meowed over his shoulder. “Keep it close. 
We never get rid of stones; they’re useful for shoring 
up walls.” 

Tallpaw grabbed the stone in his paws. It was bigger 
than the sparrow-sized rocks he’d practiced on as a 


kit, but he heaved it backward, grunting at the effort. 
You’re always stronger than you think. Sandgorse’s 
lesson came back to him. And it was true: Even in the 
cramped space, Tallpaw found he could tug the stone 
back up the tunnel until he felt a dent in the earth wall. 
Pushing hard, he pressed the stone into the earth, then 
returned to haul some more of the soil that Sandgorse 
and Mistmouse had dug out. Scrabbling with his 
forepaws, Tallpaw dragged a pile of earth backward, 
leaving a trail of loose dirt in his wake. 

His paws were clogged with grit and he could feel 
soil deep in his pelt. Fighting the instinct to wash it out, 
he kept hauling earth, spreading it back up the tunnel. 
Each time he hurried back for another load, he 
trampled the loose earth harder into the tunnel floor. 
As he reached for another pile, he suddenly realized 
that he’d forgotten he was working in the dark. And he 
was warm! 

“They’re close!” Sandgorse called excitedly. “Can 
you hear them, Tallpaw?” 

Tallpaw listened and heard Woollytail’s growl. 
Hickorynose answered, his gruff mew echoing beyond 
the wall of dirt. 


Tallpaw’s pelt pricked. “Won’t it collapse again if 
we clear away the blockage?” 

“All the earth’s fallen that’s going to fall’ Sandgorse 
reassured him. 

“How do you know?” 

“Listen.” Sandgorse scraped back more pawfuls of 
dirt, then halted. “Do you hear loose dirt? Or falling 
stones?” 

“No.” Tallpaw felt a quiver of relief. 

“And there’s no creaking above,” Mistmouse added. 
“The earth will hold.” As she spoke, Tallpaw felt fresh 
air on his whiskers. 

“Sandgorse!” Woollytail’s delighted mew echoed 
around the walls of the tunnel. 

“Is Hickorynose all right?” Mistmouse asked. 

“T’m fine!” Hickorynose called from farther down 
the tunnel. 

“Great.” Tallpaw felt his father’s tail swish past his 
nose. “Now we can get back to finding the gorge.” 

Tallpaw tasted the air. “I smell heather!” The sweet 
scent of blossom touched his tongue. 

Sandgorse’s tail flicked past his nose. “There’s an 
airhole ahead,’ he explained. “A small crack up 


through the earth to the moor.” 

Tallpaw strained his eyes and saw shapes in the 
darkness: Woollytail’s spine; Hickorynose’s ears 
silhouetted against it. 

Light! And air! Tallpaw felt a rush of excitement. 

“Let’s head for the river,’ Mistmouse urged. 

“Are you still trying to tunnel through the clay seam 
to get to the river?” Tallpaw asked, remembering a 
discussion from moons ago. 

“That’s right.” Sandgorse nudged him forward as 
the others headed away. “It’s hard gauging our depth 
exactly, but yesterday I hit clay.” 

Tallpaw glanced up as he passed below the airhole, 
blinking into the pale light seeping from the moor. “You 
found the seam?” 

“That’s what we’ve been digging through all night.” 
Sandgorse’s mew was filled with warmth. “We should 
break through to the other side soon. I’m so pleased 
you’re here to see it happen! The first ever tunnel 
from high-moor to the river!” 

Tallpaw felt the air dampen and fade as the soil 
around him thickened to mud. He was sharply aware 
of the airhole fading into the distance, and with it, the 


light and the scent of heather. He followed the sound 
of paw steps, staying close to the warmth of 
Mistmouse’s tail. As the tunnel twisted and turned, he 
quickly learned to recognize changes in the thickness 
of air that warned of a turning ahead. But his chest 
was tightening and he found himself snatching for each 
breath. 

“Sandgorse?” he called nervously. 

“Nearly there.” Sandgorse’s reply was muffled. 

“Sandgor—” A hard wall of mud slapped Tallpaw’s 
muzzle. He yelped, half in pain, half-surprised. 

Sandgorse stumbled back. “Turn to your right! 
Concentrate!” 

“Sorry.” Tallpaw pricked his ears, focusing harder 
on the space ahead. 

The air ahead seemed to tremble, and as he pushed 
on, the earth throbbed around him. 

“What’s that?” Tallpaw froze. Was the tunnel about 
to collapse? 

“It’s just the river,’ Woollytail called. “We’re at the 
end of the tunnel. A few more scoops and we’ll be in 
the gorge.” 

In the gorge! Fresh air! Tallpaw’s chest relaxed a 


little. They were probably only a tail-length from the 
wind and the sun. 

Sandgorse pushed past him. “Wait here.” 

Tallpaw heard paws scraping dirt. 

“The clay’s wetter here!” Hickorynose sounded 
jubilant. “We must be close.” 

Tallpaw hung back, listening above the hum of the 
river. The tunnelers’ pelts brushed against one another; 
clay squelched beneath their paws. Tallpaw could hear 
their breathing as they worked. “Should I dig, too?” he 
offered. Anything to get them into daylight faster. 

Splat. A hunk of clay landed in front of him. Mud 
spattered his nose. 

“Start packing the dug clay into the walls,” 
Mistmouse ordered. 

Tallpaw wrinkled his nose as he scooped up a 
pawful of slippery earth and smeared it against the side 
of the tunnel. He felt the earth trembling beneath his 
pads. The river must be very close. 

Splat. Another lump landed at his paws. Splat. 
Splat. 

The tunnelers were tossing clods so fast that 
Tallpaw hopped back to avoid them. He snatched 


another pawful and slapped it against the wall. 
Working as fast as he could, he gathered pawful after 
pawful of clay, spreading it along the passage behind 
him until he could hardly squeeze past the fresh, slimy 
layer. He paused for breath, his muscles aching. He 
must look like a mud-drowned rat by now. 

“Tallpaw?” 

As he turned back for more mud, he felt his father’s 
breath near his muzzle. “What?” 

“This is what I always dreamed of,’ Sandgorse 
mewed softly. “You working beside me. Digging a new 
tunnel together, a tunnel that may be the one to change 
WindClan’s destiny forever.” 

Tallpaw stiffened. Did Sandgorse think he’d change 
his mind about becoming a moor runner now that he’d 
been underground? Another gob of clay splatted in the 
passage beside Tallpaw and his father darted back to 
help the others. 

“Are we nearly there?” Tallpaw called above the 
rumbling of the river. His ear fur quivered. Has it 
gotten louder? 

“We? ll hit air any moment!” Sandgorse sounded as 
excited as a kit at his naming ceremony. 


“Wait!” Mistmouse snapped from somewhere in the 
darkness. 

“What is it?” Woollytail’s mew was edged with 
alarm. 

The tunnelers paused. A long, mournful creak 
echoed along the passage. It sounded like stone 
flexing, with the deep suck of mud gradually releasing 
its grip on a hillside that had stood for moons. 

“StarClan, help us.” Hickorynose’s mew was barely 
more than a whisper. 

“What’s happening?” Tallpaw asked nervously. 

“Run!” 

Paws scrambled in the darkness. Tallpaw felt fur 
press against him. 

“Tallpaw!” Sandgorse’s yowl pierced his ear fur. 
“Run!” 

Shock pulsed though Tallpaw. Spinning around, he 
pelted up the tunnel. “Sandgorse!” He glanced over his 
shoulder into blackness. 

“Behind you!” Sandgorse called. “Hickorynose? 
Woollytail? Mistmouse?” 

“Here!” 

“Here! 


“Here!” 

“Faster, Tallpaw!” Sandgorse urged, panic edging 
his mew. 

Behind them, an earsplitting roar shook the earth as 
water exploded into the tunnel. Tallpaw’s pads 
slithered on the mud. Ears flat, he flailed in the 
darkness, skidding against walls as the tunnels twisted. 

“Let me through.” Sandgorse barged past him. 
“Keep your nose to my tail and run!” 

Tallpaw obeyed, too frightened to speak. He 
couldn’t run properly here. There was no space to 
curve his spine or stretch his legs. Terror pulsing 
through every hair, he focused on the touch of 
Sandgorse’s tail-tip on his nose. Water roared behind 
them like wind caught in a valley. It charged after 
them, making the ground tremble. 

Just keep running! 

Tallpaw’s chest heaved. There was no air here! 
How could he breathe? Panic flared inside him, but he 
kept running until light flashed ahead—brighter, 
brighter, now dazzling—and they were out, bursting 
from the tunnel like rabbits chased by a fox. 

Tallpaw collapsed on the grass. Through glazed eyes 


he saw Hickorynose flash past him with Woollytail and 
Mistmouse. They had all made it. With a sigh, Tallpaw 
shut his eyes, his breath slowing. 

Paw steps paced the grass beside him. “I can’t 
believe we got it wrong.” 

Tallpaw pricked his ears. Sandgorse sounded 
annoyed. Wasn’t he scared? 

Hickorynose grunted. “I’d been counting the tail- 
lengths, and I was sure we had two more to go before 
we reached the river.” 

“We didn’t take enough notice of the easy digging in 
leaf-bare,” Woollytail huffed angrily. “We reached the 
water faster than we expected.” 

Tallpaw opened his eyes. 

Mistmouse was peering down the rabbit hole. “At 
least the flooding will let us know where the river is.” 

Tallpaw sat up. “We nearly drowned! You can’t go 
back down there!” 

“But we didnt drown,’ Sandgorse pointed out. 
“And we’ve learned a lot for next time.” 

“Next time?” Tallpaw shook his ears in disbelief. 
“Are you planning to carry on with the tunnel?” 

“Of course.” Mistmouse looked over her shoulder at 


him. “Now that we have a tunnel with water in it, we’ll 
know what level to aim for on the wall of the gorge. 
Obviously the new tunnel will have to come out higher 
next time.” 

“Should I fetch Plumclaw?” Hickorynose suggested. 
“She’ll want to be part of this.” 

“Yes.” Woollytail turned excitedly in a circle. “We'll 
be through to the gorge by moonhigh.” 

“But it’s dangerous!” Tallpaw’s heart seemed to 
beat in his throat. 

“Not if you know what you’re doing.” Sandgorse’s 
eyes were bright with exhilaration. Had he enjoyed 
racing the river? Tallpaw winced. His father had even 
more courage than he thought. 

“Why don’t you go back to camp?” Sandgorse 
meowed. “Have a rest and get cleaned up. Then you 
can come back and help us with the new section.” 

Come back? Tallpaw decided he’d rather face a 
patrol of ShadowClan warriors. 

Sandgorse was purring. “We’ll break through to the 
gorge together, Tallpaw. Palebird will be so proud of 
us.” 

Tallpaw backed away. “No.” His throat was dry. 


“Never.” 

Shock flashed through Sandgorse’s gaze. “But you 
saw how it was! Didn’t you feel it? The excitement! 
The danger!” He looked across the moors. “You can’t 
want to go back to running through heather after that.” 

“Yes!” Tallpaw jumped up, bristling with frustration. 
“Why don’t you get it? Just because you love tunneling 
doesn’t mean I do! I’m not you! I thought we were all 
going to die down there. I’m a moor runner, not a 
tunneler!” 





“When can we start using the tunnel?” Cloudrunner 
asked Hickorynose. 

Tallpaw pricked his ears. Had the tunnelers dug all 
the way through to the gorge? The cats around him 
shifted to hear the answer. Above, the full moon turned 


their pelts silver as they waited to leave for the 
Gathering. Larksplash and Appledawn sat beside 
Reedfeather. Stagleap plucked at the grass while 
Doespring gazed dreamily at the stars. Hareflight and 
Shrewpaw practiced battle moves a few tail-lengths 
away. Tallpaw was quivering with anticipation, though 
he was trying to hide it. This would be his first visit to 
Fourtrees, his first meeting with the other three Clans. 

Hickorynose paused before replying to Cloudrunner. 
“We need to shore up the walls and roof before it’s 
safe for moor runners,” he warned. 

The pale gray tom’s fur pricked along his spine. 
“And you really think this is going to make a difference 
for us all?” Cloudrunner meowed. 

“It’s a good route down to the gorge,” Heatherstar 
reminded him. 

Reedfeather’s eyes flashed. “Quicker for getting to 
RiverClan territory.” 

“Why would we want to go there?” Cloudrunner 
stared at his deputy. 

Reedfeather shrugged. “There might be a war 
between the Clans.” 

“The Clans haven’t been at war in moons,” 


Cloudrunner huffed. 

“Maybe there are other reasons for needing to visit 
our neighbors,” Reedfeather meowed. He turned his 
gaze away. “War is not the only connection between 
us.” 

Tallpaw impatiently kneaded the grass with his 
claws. Why was Reedfeather going on about visiting 
RiverClan? The only place outside the moor that they 
needed to reach was Fourtrees! 

“Don’t worry; we’ll be leaving soon,’ Dawnstripe 
promised. 

‘Tm not worried.” Tallpaw padded past her, 
avoiding her gaze. He knew he should feel excited 
about his first Gathering, but instead he felt nervous. 
His quarrel with Sandgorse yesterday had unsettled 
him. Why was his father so obsessed with him being a 
tunneler? How can I enjoy training to be a moor 
runner? Sandgorse makes me feel like a traitor. 

Barkpaw hurried from the medicine den. 
“Hawkheart says I can come!” He glanced over his 
shoulder at the medicine cat, who was crossing the 
tussocks behind him. 

Tallpaw lifted his tail in greeting as his friend 


reached him. “Is Shrewpaw coming too?” 

“Didn’t he tell you?” Barkpaw looked surprised. 

“Shrewpaw doesn’t tell me anything.” Tallpaw had 
given up trying to be friends with his denmate. 

“Why should I?” Shrewpaw paused from practicing 
battle moves. “You’re wasting your time and 
Dawnstripe’s by training as a moor runner. You’re a 
tunneler.” 

“No, I’m not!” Tallpaw snapped. 

“You will be one day.” Shrewpaw_ glanced 
meaningfully at the bracken patch. “Sandgorse will 
make sure of that.” 

“Sandgorse respects what I want.” Tallpaw’s heart 
twisted. Jf only it were true. 

“Of course he does,” Shrewpaw sneered. 

“In the end, we all decide our own destinies,” came 
an unexpected voice. 

Tallpaw spun around in surprise as he heard 
Hawkheart’s deep growl behind him. The medicine cat 
stalked past and settled beside Heatherstar. 

Cloudrunner was still bickering with Hickorynose. “I 
don’t see why we need a route to the gorge.” 

“You'll appreciate it one day.” Hickorynose sounded 


weary from the long nights of digging. 

Tallpaw had watched Heatherstar spend most of the 
day persuading him to attend the Gathering. “One of 
the tunnelers should come,’ she’d insisted, sitting 
beside the bracken patch while Hickorynose and his 
tunnelmates finally got a chance to clean the clay from 
their paws. They’d opened the tunnel by moonhigh, just 
as Sandgorse had promised. But they spent till dawn 
safeguarding against cave-ins and mudslides, and 
returned to camp more anxious than exhilarated. 

“The whole Clan should be represented.” 
Heatherstar had challenged one tunneler, then the next, 
until finally Hickorynose had looked up. 

“What does it matter?” he’d grunted. “The other 
Clans don’t know a tunneler from a moor runner.” 

Plumclaw sniffed. “Tunnelers don’t need to share 
gossip with the other Clans.” 

Heatherstar had bristled. “The Gatherings aren’t for 
sharing gossip,” she’d snapped. “They keep harmony 
between the Clans.” 

“Harmony!” Woollytail had snorted. “The Clans are 
just there to spy on one another.” He’d returned to 
washing, tugging grit from between his claws. 


“Well?” Heatherstar glared at the tunnelers, her tail 
flicking. “Who’s coming to the Gathering?” 

Hickorynose sighed. “I will.” 

Heatherstar had nodded. “Then you’d better get 
some rest.” 

Now, in the moonlight, Tallpaw thought Hickorynose 
still looked tired despite his sleep. He yawned as 
Cloudrunner complained to Stagleap. 

“The gorge tunnel will be as steep as a cliff,” the 
pale gray moor runner fretted. “You won’t get me 
down it.” 

Stagleap shrugged. “Tallpaw said it’s not that 
steep.” 

“He says they dug the slope long and shallow,” 
added Doespring. 

“Yes, it’s not too bad,” Tallpaw meowed. 

Cloudrunner turned and stared at Tallpaw. “You’ve 
been down it?” 

“He helped dig it out,’ Stagleap announced. 

Tallpaw shifted his paws uncomfortably as he 
remembered how terrified he’d been with the river 
roaring at his tail like an angry swarm of bees. And 
Sandgorse still wanted him to be a tunneler. Just 


because its right for him doesnt make it right for 
me! 

“Ready?” Dawnstripe’s mew surprised him. 

“Ready?” Tallpaw echoed, lost in his own thoughts. 

Dawnstripe rolled her eyes. “The Gathering, 
remember?” 

Heatherstar was already heading out of the camp. 

“Of course I remember!” Tallpaw glanced at the 
bracken patch. Was Sandgorse watching him leave for 
his first Gathermg? He scanned the nests for eyes 
flashing in the darkness, but there was no sign of any 
cats looking at him. Tallpaw glanced at the nursery, 
relieved to see Palebird sliding out of the gorse. 

She nodded to him. “Good luck, Tallpaw.” 

“Good luck, Tallpaw,” Shrewpaw mimicked. 

Barkpaw growled at his brother. “Leave him alone. 
It’s his first Gathering!” 

“Poor little Wormpaw has to go without his mother.” 

Tallpaw unsheathed his claws. 

“Come on.” Dawnstripe nosed her apprentice away 
from his denmate. 

Growling under his breath, Tallpaw followed 
Stagleap through the heather. Doespring met him on 


the grass clearing outside camp, Ryestalk at her side. 
“Are you excited?” Her amber eyes were bright. It 
was her first Gathering as a warrior. 

Tallpaw shrugged. “I guess.” 

“You guess?” Ryestalk followed Cloudrunner and 
Hareflight across the grass. “It’ll be great!” she called, 
disappearing into the heather. 

Hawkheart shadowed Whiteberry and Flamepett, his 
sharp gaze flicking over the elders. “You should be 
resting in your nest, Whiteberry,” he muttered. 

‘T’m not letting a few aching joints keep me away 
from a Gathering,” Whiteberry rasped. 

“I gave him the heather blossom we gathered.” 
Barkpaw trotted after his mentor. 

Hawkheart’s gaze narrowed. “How much?” 

“Half a pawful, soaked in water. Like you showed 
me.” 

Hawkheart nodded. “Well done.” His gaze flicked 
back to Whiteberry. “Has it helped?” 

“I was fine before.” Whiteberry limped along the 
trail after his Clanmates. “Don’t waste your herbs on 
me.” 

“Poor Barkpaw.” Shrewpaw stopped beside 


Doespring. “Imagine spending your life listening to 
elders complain.” 

“He’s had plenty of practice, growing up in a nest 
with you,’ Doespring meowed sharply. Shrewpaw 
scowled at her and trotted ahead to catch up to 
Barkpaw. 

Stagleap ripped at the grass. “Hurry up, Tallpaw 
Beyond him, the heather rippled as WindClan moved 
though it. 

“What’s Fourtrees like?” Tallpaw meowed. 

“Weird.” Stagleap shouldered his way through the 
bushes. 

Tallpaw slid after him, following the trail. “How?” 

“You'll see.” 

Doespring was pushing at Tallpaw’s heels. “Should 
we race?” 

“No thanks.” Tallpaw wasn’t in the mood for 
running. 

Stagleap glanced back, his eyes flashing in the 
darkness. “PI race you!” 

Tallpaw leaned aside to let Doespring pass. “See 
you there!” she called as she broke into a run. The two 
warriors hared away, their paws thrumming the 


1”? 


ground. Tallpaw trudged after them, following their 
scent through the heather. 

Paw steps sounded behind him. “T thought you loved 
racing?” Dawnstripe had caught up to him. 

“I don’t feel like it,’ Tallpaw murmured. 

Dawnstripe walked in silence for a few moments. 
“What’s the matter?” she asked at last. 

“Nothing.” 

“You’ve been in a bad mood since you went 
tunneling yesterday.” 

“So?” 

“So, you hardly heard a word I said in training 
today,” she persisted. “You didn’t even try to outstalk 
Shrewpaw, and your hunting stance was the worst I’ve 
ever seen.” 

“Maybe I’m not meant to be a moor runner.” 
Tallpaw let gloom swamp him. 

“Don’t be sily.” Dawnstripe was brisk. “You’re the 
best runner I’ve seen. Now, tell me what happened in 
the tunnels that upset you. Is it Sandgorse?” 

Tallpaw sighed. “He didn’t even see me off to my 
first Gathering.” 

“It’s going to take Sandgorse time to accept that you 


want to be a moor runner,” Dawnstripe told him. “No 
cat can change his feelings overnight.” 

‘Doesn’t he want what’s best for me?” Tallpaw 
asked crossly. 

“Of course he does,” Dawnstripe meowed. “But he 
still thinks being a tunneler is best for you.” 

“Ts he right?” Tallpaw’s belly tightened. 

“Do you want to train as a tunneler?” Dawnstripe 
prompted. 

“No!” The word burst from Tallpaw before he had a 
chance to think. “Never! I don’t want to spend my life 
in the dark with soil in my fur and mud in my claws!” 

“Okay.” Dawnstripe padded steadily beside him. 
“So you’re going to have to put up with Sandgorse’s 
disappointment. You can’t change the way he feels. 
The only thing you can change is how you feel.” 

“T feel bad.” 

“But not bad enough to become a tunneler just to 
please Sandgorse.” 

“I guess not.” Tallpaw followed the trail as it wound 
out from the heather. Moonlight shone on the slope 
ahead. 

Dawnstripe kept pace with him, her long strides 


carrying her easily over the flattened grass. “Then let 
Sandgorse sulk if he wants to, and concentrate on 
becoming the best moor runner you can be. Your Clan 
needs good warriors, and I think you can become one 
of the best.” 

Tallpaw glanced at his mentor. “Really?” 

Paw steps thrummed toward them. “Come on!” 
Stagleap slowed to a halt in front of them. “I’ve 
already beaten Doespring to the top of the hollow.” 

Doespring charged up behind him. “You did not!” 

“Okay,” Stagleap conceded. “You were a whisker 
ahead.” He blinked at Tallpaw. “Heatherstar and the 
others are waiting for you to jom them before they go 
down. Hawkheart’s getting restless.” 

Dawnstripe bounded forward. “Quick, Tallpaw. It’s 
your first Gathering. Enjoy it!” She hared away over 
the grass with Stagleap and Doespring on her tail. 

Tallpaw raced after. He caught up to his Clanmates 
at the top of a steep slope. Ahead, treetops swished in 
the moonlight. The air was thick with the taste of earth 
and thick, damp foliage. Fourtrees. 

“You took your time,” Hawkheart growled. 

“Sorry.” Tallpaw peered into the trees, waiting for 


his eyes to adjust to the darkness. The ground sloped 
steeply away beneath his paws, and through gaps 
between the trunks, he could make out a clearing filled 
with moonlight. 

“Let’s go.” Heatherstar flicked her tail and the 
WindClan warriors streamed down the slope. 

Tallpaw bounded after them, feeling the soft grass 
give way to crumbly earth. Ferns swished against his 
pelt and brambles twitched as he hopped over their 
trailing branches. As he reached the foot of the slope, 
he slowed to a stop. Four gigantic oaks stood in the 
center of the hollow, their trunks thicker than Tallrock 
back in the WindClan camp. Above his head, branches 
creaked. Tallpaw pressed his ears flat, unnerved by the 
noise. Even when the wind howled across the moor, 
the heather only whispered in reply. The bark of the 
trees glowed silver, and the canopy of leaves blocked 
out the sky until the wind tugged at them, revealing 
glimpses of stars. 

“We’re the first!” Doespring stopped beside him. 
“Look!” Her mew echoed around the walls of the 
hollow. “It’s the Great Rock.” 

Tallpaw followed her gaze, his heart quickening as 


he saw the stone looming palely in the shadows, bigger 
than any boulder on the moor. As the branches moved 
overhead, moonlight dappled the rock. Tallpaw tensed 
as he felt the ground tremble. Was the Great Rock 
alive? 

“Someone’s coming!” called a voice behind him. 

Doespring tasted the air. “It’s ThunderClan.” 

As she spoke, dark shapes bounded down the far 
slope. Their paw steps set the earth shaking as they 
spilled into the hollow. Tallpaw backed away. He’d 
never seen such huge cats, wide-shouldered and 
stocky with long fur and sharp claws that glinted at the 
ends of their toes. 

“Greetings, Heatherstar.” A fox-furred tom, his 
muzzle crisscrossed with old scars, dipped his head to 
the WindClan leader. 

“Its good to see you, Pinestar,’ Heatherstar 
responded politely, her eyes glinting in the moonlight. 

“Hawkheart! Any news this moon?” A ragged gray 
tom shambled toward the WindClan medicine cat. 

“That’s Goosefeather,’ Doespring whispered to 
Tallpaw. “He’s ThunderClan’s medicine cat.” 

Tallpaw heard a purr in his other ear. “Goosefeather 


talks to himself?’ Stagleap whispered. “The 
ThunderClan apprentices told me that he walks in the 
woods chatting to the trees and the squirrels.” 

Doespring snorted with amusement. 

“Hello, Goosefeather.” Hawkheart welcomed his 
fellow medicine cat. 

Barkpaw stood beside his mentor and nodded, 
looking overawed. 

“Have you killed anyone recently, you old herb- 
muddler?” Hawkheart joked. 

Goosefeather snorted. “Not on purpose.” 

Tallpaw’s eyes widened as he watched 
ThunderClan warriors weave among the WindClan 
cats, exchanging greetings like old friends. “Is it okay 
to talk to the other Clans?” 

“So long as clouds don’t cross the moon,” Doespring 
reminded him. “If they do, StarClan is warning us that 
the truce is over.” 

“Be careful what you say,” Stagleap added. “If you 
say too much, you might give away WindClan secrets. 
If you say too little, the other Clans will accuse you of 
being hostile.” 

Tallpaw swallowed. “How will I know if I get it 


right?” 

“Just listen and be polite,’ Doespring advised. “If 
you talk to the apprentices, don’t say more than you 
need to. If they talk about training, join in, but don’t 
share WindClan battle moves.” 

“Here comes ShadowClan!” Stagleap’s hiss made 
Tallpaw stiffen. 

The bushes on the slope stayed almost silent as 
shadows moved between them. Tallpaw’s pelt pricked. 
These cats hardly rippled a leaf as they slunk into the 
hollow, silent as prey. Tallpaw wrinkled his nose. 
ShadowClan brought with them a stench of pinesap 
and dank moss. “Do they always smell like that?” 

“You'll get used to it,’ Stagleap promised. “They 
probably think we smell odd.” 

Tallpaw lifted his chin. “No one could find the scent 
of the wind odd.” 

Doespring shrugged. “Maybe they do. Perhaps 
that’s why they hide in the forest.” 

“That’s Cedarstar.” Stagleap pointed his muzzle at a 
dark gray tom. The ShadowClan leader’s white belly 
flashed beneath him as he jomed Heatherstar and 
Pinestar at the foot of the Great Rock. 


Tallpaw watched a gray tabby approach 
Reedfeather. “Is that Stonetooth?” he asked, half 
recognizing the cat from one of Flailfoot’s stories. 

“Yes. He’s been ShadowClan’s deputy for so long, 
only the elders remember who came before him,” 
Doespring meowed. 

“And there’s Sunfall.” Stagleap nodded toward a 
golden tabby. ThunderClan’s deputy was pacing 
around the clearing, dipping his head to warriors, 
sharing words with one group before moving on to the 
next. 

Whiteberry limped across the clearing and touched 
muzzles with a small ginger she-cat. “Littlebird.” His 
eyes flashed with mischief. “You haven’t missed a 
Gathering in moons. Come to gossip, eh?” 

“Of course.” She swept her tail over her paws as 
she sat down. 

A graying ThunderClan tom hurried to join them. 
“How’s hunting?” he asked as he reached them. 

“Not bad, Mumblefoot,’ Whiteberry rasped. 
“Though with only two apprentices, it’s a long wait for 
fresh prey to arrive.” 

Littlebird snorted. “You should go out and hunt your 


33 


own. 

“If only!” Whiteberry sighed. “My legs are too 
slow.” 

“Your claws are still sharp,” Littlebird countered. 

Tallpaw’s ears pricked as Shrewpaw’s mew 
sounded from below one of the oak trees. “Of course, 
I’m the fastest apprentice.” Three apprentices were 
gathered around the dark brown tom, their eyes round. 
“And there’s no cat faster than a WindClan cat.” 

A white ShadowClan apprentice lashed his tail 
“Any cat could run fast on the moor. You’ve got the 
wind at your tail and no trees to get in your way.” 

“You think it’s easy living on the moors, 
Blizzardpaw?” Shrewpaw flattened his ears. 

A silver-furred she-cat with pale blue eyes stared at 
him. “WindClan cats think they’re so special.” 

“That’s because we are.” Shrewpaw stuck his nose 
in the arr. 

“You’re as puffed up as the sheep that live on your 
dumb moor.” The silver apprentice lashed her tail. 

“Moonpaw.” A sleek gray ThunderClan tom hurried 
over to her. “Don’t forget the truce.” 

“But Shrewpaw’s showing off!” Moonpaw 


protested. “All WindClan cats are show-offs.” 

Tallpaw noticed Hawkheart’s head turn toward the 
squabbling apprentices. “Stormtail!” he called to the 
gray ThunderClan tom beside Moonpaw. “Can’t 
ThunderClan keep its "paws under control?” 

Moonpaw’s gaze flashed toward the WindClan 
medicine cat. “Don’t worry,” she growled. “I won’t 
break the truce.” As she stalked away, Stormtail 
hurried after her, throwing an apologetic look at 
Hawkheart. 

Tallpaw suddenly realized that his heart was racing. 
The rustling leaves and the babbling voices made his 
ears twitch. Words were tossed back and forth like 
prey between paws. How would he ever learn the 
names of all the cats in other Clans? Would he ever 
know what to say? Could he ever feel at ease here, 
trapped beneath trees? 

“Look, Doespring!” Stagleap’s mew surprised him. 
“There’s Nettlepaw!” He jerked his nose toward a 
white ShadowClan she-cat with ginger patches. “Let’s 
find out if she passed her assessment!” 

Tallpaw stared as they raced away across the 
clearing. He glanced around, feeling suddenly exposed. 


Should he follow them? Or join Shrewpaw with the 
other apprentices? Uncertain, he dropped into a crouch 
and watched the Clans blend together in a haze of 
pelts. Wheres RiverClan? Tallpaw dug his claws into 
the earth, feeling for vibrations, but the pattering of 
paws in the clearing blotted out distant tremors. He 
tasted the air. A tang that tasted of rancid water was 
drifting into the hollow. 

“Sorry we’re late!” A huge tom bounded down 
between brambles and crossed the clearing to 
Heatherstar. His fur shone in the dappled moonlight, so 
thick that Tallpaw could only guess at the sturdy 
muscle moving beneath. That must be Hailstar. 
Tallpaw watched the RiverClan leader’s Clanmates 
stream into the hollow. They slid as easily as fish 
among the other Clan cats until the clearing was 
teeming with bodies. Tallpaw glanced up, wishing he 
could see wide-open sky. But he was underneath one 
of the Great Oaks, and branches blocked his view. Its 
like being underground. His tail twitched nervously. 

A familiar scent wafted over him as a pelt brushed 
his flank. “You'll get used to it.” Cloudrunner nudged 
him. “Next time won’t seem so strange.” 


Tallpaw straightened up. “How can any cat live 
under trees?” 

Cloudrunner shrugged. “I guess a cat can get used 
to anything.” 

Pale fur moved at the side of the Great Rock. 
Heatherstar was jumping to the top with Cedarstar, 
Pinestar, and Hailstar close behind. 

“Follow me.” Cloudrunner headed into the crowd. 

Tallpaw kept close to the pale gray warrior, his 
whiskers brushing pelts as they weaved between the 
Clans. He flattened his ears, trying not to breathe too 
deeply amid the jumble of scents. He pretended he 
was moving through heather, relieved when 
Cloudrunner stopped beside Stagleap and Doespring. 

Tallpaw nosed in beside Stagleap. “Can I sit here?” 
he whispered. 

“Of course.” Stagleap shifted to give him room. 

Doespring leaned around her brother and blinked at 
Tallpaw. “Can you see from there?” 

“Just about.” As Cloudrunner squeezed in behind 
him, Tallpaw stretched to peer over the heads of 
Hareflight, Shrewpaw, and Appledawn, who were 
lined up like stones in front of him, their eyes lifted 


toward the Great Rock. Larksplash, Ryestalk, and 
Dawnstripe flanked them while Hickorynose wheezed 
as he settled down behind. 

Cedarstar stepped forward and spoke first. 
“ShadowClan is well,’ he declared. Tallpaw watched 
his amber eyes glint in the moonlight as he scanned the 
Gathering. “Our nursery is ful.” The ShadowClan 
leader’s gaze warmed. “Three new kits have been 
born to Silverflame.” 

Tallpaw noticed the ShadowClan cats around him 
exchange knowing, worried glances. Was there a 
secret behind this good news? 

“Prey is plentiful in the forest and greenleaf has 
been kind.” Cedarstar stepped back and nodded to 
Pinestar. 

As the ThunderClan leader began to speak, his 
Clanmates shifted below, fluffing out their fur. Why are 
they so pleased with themselves? Tallpaw wondered. 
They lived in a forest, hiding like prey among the trees. 
No Clan lived like WindClan, on top of the whole 
world, close to the sky with their tails in the wind. 

“Greenleaf has been kind to ThunderClan, too,” 
Pinestar meowed. “The woods are prey-rich. StarClan 


blesses us this moon.” His gaze darkened. “There 
have been dogs in the forest, but our patrols have 
driven them back into Twoleg territory.” 

Stagleap leaned close to Tallpaw. “Perhaps I should 
offer to scent mark their borders for them,’ he 
whispered. “That would scare the dogs away.” 

“Hush,” Dawnstripe hissed. Stagleap sniffed and 
turned his gaze back to the Great Rock. 

Hailstar had stepped forward. “The newleaf rains 
have fed the river, bringing more fish this greenleaf 
than RiverClan can eat.” 

‘Don’t the other Clans ever go hungry?” Tallpaw 
whispered. 

Cloudrunner’s breath touched his ear. “That’s what 
they want you to think,” he muttered. “No Clan would 
admit to hunger.” He nodded toward two burly 
ThunderClan warriors. “Look at the scars on their 
muzzles. They’ve hardly had time to heal.” 

Tallpaw peered through the half-light. Cloudrunner 
was right. The warriors’ noses carried the mark of 
fresh injuries. 

“Tt looks like those dogs put up a fight before they 
were chased back to Twoleg territory,’ Cloudrunner 


commented. “Pinestar didn’t mention that.” 

Heatherstar was taking her place at the front of the 
Great Rock. “Prey is running well on the moor. 
Stagleap, Doespring, and Ryestalk have become 
warriors. And we have a new apprentice.” Tallpaw 
froze as her gaze locked with his. “Tallpaw!” 
Heatherstar called proudly. 

“Tallpaw!” 

“Tallpaw!” 

“Tallpaw!” 

Around him cats raised their voices, calling his 
name. Tallpaw shrank beneath his fur. No one had 
warned him about this! Eyes glowed warmly as they 
fixed on him. Tallpaw tried to sit up straight, forcing his 
ears not to flatten as his name rang around the hollow. 

He sagged with relief when they fell silent and 
Heatherstar spoke again. “The nursery is empty, 
though with StarClan’s blessing, not for long. The long, 
warm days have brought health and full bellies to 
WindClan. Soon it will bring kits to make WindClan 
even stronger.” Tallpaw leaned forward, waiting for 
her to announce WindClan’s greatest achievement: the 
tunnel leading to the gorge. But the WindClan leader 


stepped back, nodding to the other Clan leaders. 

In the hollow, the cats stood up and began to move, 
breaking rank and clustering into groups. 

“Is that it?” Tallpaw blinked up at the Great Rock. 
“Isn’t Heatherstar going to mention the tunnel?” 

Stagleap stared at him. “Why should she? It’s just a 
tunnel. The other Clans wouldn’t understand.” 

“We never tell them about our tunnels.” Ryestalk 
flicked her tail. 

Doespring stood up and shook out her pelt. “They’d 
think we’d turned into rabbits.” 

Tallpaw narrowed his eyes. Surely news about the 
latest tunnel would just prove WindClan’s strength? 
Why keep it a secret, if the aim of a Gathering was to 
make the other Clans think WindClan was as strong as 
they could possibly be? 

Cloudrunner brushed past him. “The tunnels give us 
tactical advantage,” he murmured. “It’s best we don’t 
share news about them with the other Clans.” 

Tallpaw turned and dipped his head to Hickorynose, 
hoping the old tunneler understood that he appreciated 
the tunnel. But Hickorynose was shouldering his way 
through the crowd, gaze low, heading for an empty 


slope where he stopped and sat apart from all the other 
cats. 

“Come on.” Stagleap nudged Tallpaw with his 
muzzle. “Meet Shimmerpelt.” 

“Shimmerpelt?” 

Doespring rolled her eyes. “She’s in RiverClan. 
Stagleap’s got a massive crush on her.” 

“But I thought that was forbidden.” Tallpaw was 
confused. 

“Its forbidden to take a mate from a different 
Clan,” Stagleap meowed breezily. “But that doesn’t 
mean you can’t talk to them.” He padded away, 
Doespring at his heels. 

‘TI stay here,” Tallpaw called after them. He just 
wanted to watch for now. He gazed around the 
clearing, surprised to see the Clans at ease, sharing 
tongues as though there were no borders anywhere in 
the forest. Heatherstar and Pinestar talked in low 
murmurs, their heads close. Dawnstripe and 
Appledawn purred loudly as two ThunderClan toms 
demonstrated comical battle moves, fighting more like 
hares than warriors. At the edge of the clearing, 
Reedfeather sat close to a RiverClan she-cat. His tail 


whisked against her soft, pale brown flank as he 
talked, and Tallpaw was surprised by the warmth in 
Reedfeather’s gaze. When the RiverClan she-cat got 
to her paws and padded toward the edge of the 
clearing, Reedfeather followed. 

“Tallpaw!” Dawnstripe’s call caught his attention. 

He turned. His mentor was at the far side of the 
clearing, beckoning him with her tail. He hurried 
toward her and she nodded to a dark gray tom, who 
smelled of sap. “This is Frogpaw of ShadowClan.” She 
glanced past him. “And his sisters are over there.” 
Tallpaw followed her gaze toward a mottled she-cat 
and her pale gray littermate. 

Frogpaw sniffed. “They’re called Newtpaw and 
Ashpaw.” 

“T thought you might like to meet some apprentices 
from another Clan,” Dawnstripe told him. “They are 
our neighbors, after all.” 

Tallpaw twitched an ear. “I guess.” 

“How long have you been training?” Frogpaw 
asked. 

“Just a moon.” Tallpaw didn’t like the way the 
young tom was eyeing him—like a hunter assessing 


prey. 

“Who’s this?” Newtpaw nosed past her brother. 

“He’s the new WindClan apprentice.” Ashpaw 
poked her muzzle close and sniffed. “He smells like 
heather.” 

Tallpaw glared at her. And you smell like nettles. 

“WindClan!” Heatherstar called from the slope. 
“The rabbits will start running early. We should return 
to camp and sleep while we can.” 

Tallpaw felt a ripple of relief. He wasn’t going to 
have to share tongues with these stinky cats. 

“Why did you introduce me to them?” he hissed to 
Dawnstripe as he ran after her. Around him, his 
Clanmates streamed up the slope toward the moor. 

“Know your enemy,” Dawnstripe told him. “If you 
meet them in battle, you’ll recognize their scent and 
their strength.” 

“Will I?” Tallpaw wasn’t convinced he’d be able to 
tell the three apprentices apart from their smelly 
Clanmates. 

“What did you think of Frogpaw?” Dawnstripe 
pressed. 

“He looked at me as if he was trying to work out 


how strong I was.” 

“And Ashpaw?” 

“She’s not shy.” Tallpaw felt a prickle of irritation. 
She’d sniffed him like she was checking stale scent. 
“Nor is her sister.” 

“You have a sense of them, then.” Dawnstripe 
pushed through a patch of ferns. 

Tallpaw followed in her paw steps, the fronds 
whisking his flanks. “I guess.” 

“When battle comes, it will help, I promise.” 

Tallpaw didn’t answer. How could knowing that the 
three young ShadowClan cats were bad-mannered and 
pushy help him in fight? Suddenly he felt bone-weary. 
By the time he reached the top of the slope, his paws 
ached. He was usually fast asleep in his nest by now. 
He followed Dawnstripe across the grass, comforted 
as the scent of peat and heather flooded his nose. He 
glanced up at the sky, relieved to be in the open. 
Moonlight shone on the pelts of his Clanmates as they 
crossed the moor ahead of him. 

By the time they reached camp, he was yawning. 
“T’m so tired.” 

“Hush,” Dawnstripe cautioned him. “The Clan will 


be sleeping.” 

“Lucky Clan,” he muttered. 

Dawnstripe stopped suddenly, her pelt bushing. 

“What is it?” Tallpaw hissed. 

Dawnstripe was staring at the walls of the camp. 
Heatherstar stood frozen outside the entrance while 
her Clanmates paused around her, their ears pricking. 

Voices sounded from inside. 

“They’re here!” Larksplash was the first to move. 
She raced toward the entrance, ducking past her 
leader and plunging into the heather. “The visitors! 
They’ ve come at last!” 


j 
{ 





CHAPTER 12 
te 


ko 


Tallpaw raced into the camp after Dawnstripe. The 
whole Clan was awake, swirling between the moonlit 
tussocks so that the clearing looked as busy as 
Fourtrees. Strange cats appeared among Tallpaw’s 
Clanmates. A black-and-white she-cat paced beside a 


gray tom. Her ginger-and-white companion stood, eyes 
bright, near the edge of the Meeting Hollow while a 
large, creamy-brown tom tasted the air. Beside them, a 
tawny tom, short-furred and thin, glanced around 
curiously. 

Tallpaw opened his mouth and let their scent bathe 
his tongue. He could taste Thunderpaths, stale food, 
and a smoky smell, like the grimy clouds that 
sometimes drifted from Twolegplace. 

“Who are they?” Barkpaw’s eyes were wide. 

Tallpaw stopped beside him. “They’re the visitors.” 

Shrewpaw nosed his way among his Clanmates, 
snatching sniffs of the newcomers. 

Redclaw blocked his path. “They’re our guests, not 
prey. Treat them with respect.” 

Shrewpaw lifted his chin. “What are they doing 
here?” 

“They’ve come to share food and stories,” Redclaw 
told him. 

Heatherstar weaved between her Clanmates and 
dipped her head to the black-and-white she-cat. “It’s 
good to see you again, Bess.” Her eyes flicked over 
Bess’s companions. “Where’s Wee Hen?” 


Bess shook her head. “’Twas a hard cold-season,” 
she meowed softly. “But she died warm and full-fed.” 

Heatherstar’s tail drooped. “She’ll be missed.” 

Whiteberry hurried over the tussocks, his eyes 
clouding. “Did she have any words for me?” he asked 
hopefully. 

Bess met his gaze. “She asked that you share her 
stories with your young’ uns.” 

“Of course.” Whiteberry’s tail quivered and he 
turned to the creamy-brown tom. “It’s good to see you, 
Algernon.” 

The tom whisked his tail. “We decided it were well 
time we tasted heather once more.” 

Tallpaw shifted his paws, unnerved by the 
strangeness of having cats who weren’t Clanborn right 
inside the camp. And they spoke so strangely. “I didn’t 
believe they’d actually come,’ he murmured, half to 
himself. 

Barkpaw jerked around. “You knew about them 
already?” 

Tallpaw blinked at him. “Didn’t Hawkheart warn 
you?” 

“Warn me?” Barkpaw narrowed his eyes. “Who are 


these cats?” 

Tallpaw shrugged. “All I know is that they’re rogues 
and they come every year to spend greenleaf with 
WindClan.” 

Barkpaw gazed at the strangers. “Why?” 

“Because they always have.” Tallpaw repeated 
Dawnstripe’s words, still not understanding why that 
made it okay for WindClan to share nests and prey 
with rogues. 

“Reena!” Larksplash bounded over the tussocks 
toward the young ginger-and-white she-cat. “You’ve 
grown!” 

“Oh my tail and whiskers!” Reena looked surprised. 
“So have you!” 

Meadowslip and Brackenwing hurried after 
Larksplash and crowded around Reena. 

“How was leaf-bare?” Meadowslip asked. 

Brackenwing ran the tip of her tail along Reena’s 
spine. “Did you find somewhere warm to shelter?” 

“We stayed cozy,’ Reena reassured them. Her gaze 
flicked over Larksplash. “Are you a warrior yet?” 

‘Tve been a mentor,” Larksplash purred. 

“A mentor?” Reena looked impressed. “You were 


hardly more than a ’paw the last time we were here.” 
She glanced around the Clan. “Who’ve you been 
mentoring?” 

Ryestalk padded forward. “Me.” Her nostrils 
twitched. 

“And who are you?” Reena cast an admiring gaze 
over the young warrior. 

“T’m Ryestalk.” 

“Well, I’m Reena, and I’d be honored to touch noses 
with you.” She leaned forward, sticking out her 
muzzle. 

Ryestalk glanced at Larksplash. “It’s okay,” 
Larksplash reassured her. Gingerly Ryestalk touched 
her nose to Reena’s, then hopped back. 

Barkpaw growled under his breath. “I hope they 
haven’t brought whitecough with them.” 

Tallpaw breathed in the scent of the visitors. “They 
smell clean and healthy to me.” 

Barkpaw was still scowling. “I’d like to look them 
over in the medicine den before they start mixing with 
the Clan. Hawkheart says strangers bring sickness.” 

The tawny brown rogue had wandered over to the 
Hunting Stones and stood watching the Clan in silence, 


his eyes glittermg. Beside him, the small, dark gray tom 
shifted his paws warily. 

Aspenfall approached them, ears twitching. 
“Sparrow.” He nodded to the tawny-colored tom. 

“Aspenfall” Sparrow matched  Aspenfall’s 
respectful tone. 

The dark gray rogue lifted his head. “I hope cold- 
season was kind to the Clan.” 

“Leaf-bare was long, Mole,’ Aspenfall told him. 
“But the prey kept running and our nests were warm.” 

“Bess!” Cloudrunner bounded across the clearing 
and touched noses with the black-and-white she-cat. 

Tallpaw felt fur brush his flank. Palebird slid in 
beside him. “It’s good to see old friends,’ she 
murmured. 

“Have you known them long?” Tallpaw asked. 

“They’ve been visiting since before I was born,” 
Palebird replied. “At least, Algie and Bess have. 
Reena is their daughter. Sparrow and Mole joined them 
later.” 

Tallpaw glanced at the gray tom. “They have weird 
names.” He could understand Sparrow and Mole, but 
Reena, Algie, and Bess felt strange to his tongue. 


“Bess was named by Twolegs,” Palebird explained. 
“Algernon, too. They were kittypets once, I think. And 
Bess gave Reena her sister’s name.” 

“Is that Palebird?” At mention of her sister, Bess 
turned her head. “You look thin.” She padded over, her 
eyes round with worry. Reena followed her. 

“T haven’t been well.” Palebird sighed. 

Bess was staring at Tallpaw. “Who’s this?” 

“My son, Tallpaw.” For once, pride warmed 
Palebird’s voice. 

“He’s a fine one,” Bess purred. 

“I kitted another.” Palebird’s mew wobbled. “But 
she died.” 

“Oh, Palebird.” Bess’s eyes clouded. She pressed 
her cheek against Palebird’s. “You poor duckling.” 

Reena stood silently behind her mother. Tallpaw 
shifted his paws, his tail pricking self-consciously as 
the two she-cats shared a long moment of grief. He 
couldn’t help noticing how clean Bess’s white paws 
were. And Reena’s ginger pelt shone in the moonlight. 
He always imagined rogues would be ragged and dirty. 

Barkpaw nudged him. “I think Hawkheart wants 
me.” Hawkheart was beckoning from the rim of the 


Meeting Hollow, his gaze as watchful as Sparrow’s. 
Barkpaw crossed the clearing, then followed his 
mentor to the medicine den. 

Across the clearing, the elders clustered around 
Algernon while Sandgorse purred loudly. “Tell us more, 
Algie,” he urged. 

But Mistmouse circled the clearing without taking 
her eyes off the visitors, while Hickorynose sat close 
to Woollytail, muttering under his breath. Tallpaw 
narrowed his eyes. Not everyone wants them here. 

“He’s a thoughtful one, young Tallpaw.” Bess’s 
mew jerked Tallpaw’s attention back. 

“I was just watching the Clan,” he mewed quickly. 

Bess glanced over her shoulder. “They’ll take a 
while to get used to us again,’ she meowed. “Once 
we’ve proved we can earn our keep, the icy ones’ll 
thaw.” 

“Earn your keep?” Tallpaw didn’t understand. 

“Catch their own food,” Palebird explained. 

Bess threw a wink at Whiteberry across the 
bracken patch and added, “We may even catch a little 
extra for the old’uns.” 

“They'll be grateful for it,’ Tallpaw admitted. “So 


will I. With just the two of us, we have trouble catching 
enough prey for them.” 

“Two of you?” Reena looked confused. 

“Me and Shrewpaw,” Tallpaw explained. “It’s our 
job to take care of the elders.” 

As Tallpaw spoke, Heatherstar lifted her muzzle. 
“It’s late. We should rest. Who will share their dens 
with our friends?” 

“Bess must stay in the nursery,” Palebird called. On 
the far side of the clearing, Meadowslip nodded. 

“Would Mole like to bed down with us?” Flamepelt 
suggested. “The elders’ den is the warmest place in 
the camp besides the nursery.” He glanced at Mole. 
“Not that you’re as old and frail as us!” he added. 

Mole dipped his head. “You’re very kind,’ he 
mewed. “And I suspect there’s not many moons 
between us.” 

Redclaw lifted his tail. “There are spare nests in the 
long grass for Algie and Sparrow.” 

“Thanks, Redclaw.” Algie headed for the moor 
runners’ patch. 

Sparrow narrowed his eyes. “Thank you,” he 
meowed before padding after his companion. 


Bess glanced at her daughter. “What about Reena?” 

Palebird frowned. “There’s not much room in the 
nursery now that Meadowsilip’s so close to kitting.” 

“There’s room in the apprentice den.” Tallpaw 
surprised himself, the offer tumbling out before he’d 
even thought about it. 

“Thanks, Tall.” Reena strutted past him, tail flicking. 
“Just tell me which nest is spare and Pll happily bed 
down.” 

“Er, it’s Tallpaw, actually.” Tallpaw hurried after her, 
wondering what Shrewpaw would say about an extra 
denmate. Reena had better not try to call him 
“Shrew”! 

Reena had already picked out a nest at the back of 
the den by the time Shrewpaw reached the gorse bush. 
It was Ryestalk’s old nest, and Reena sneezed as dust 
wafted up from the wool lining when she curled down 
into it. 

Shrewpaw glared through the den opening. “What’s 
she doing here?” 

“She needed a place to sleep,” Tallpaw explained. 
“We’ve got spare nests.” 

“They’re apprentice nests,’ Shrewpaw snapped. 


“Not for rogues.” 

“We’re only rogues till you get to know us.” Reena 
peeped over the top of her nest, her eyes twinkling. 
“Until then, why don’t you pretend I’m a little old egg 
just waiting to hatch and keep your claws sheathed? 
No sense in killing prey before it’s worth eating.” 

Shrewpaw blinked. “Pretend you’re an egg,” he 
echoed. 

“Yep.” Reena buried her nose beneath her paw, 
mufflng her mew. “Just a chick in a shell” She 
peeped out and caught Tallpaw’s eyes. Her gaze 
sparkled with laughter. 

Tallpaw swallowed back a purr as Shrewpaw 
climbed, frowning, into his nest. Having visitors might 
be fun, he decided as he settled down to sleep. 


j 
<— 





CHAPTER 13 
te 


ko 


“Rabbit!” Dawnstripe dropped into a crouch, her 
gaze fixed on a small, brown shape bobbing up the 
slope. Talpaw pressed his bely to the ground. He 
glanced at Reena. 

She was already flat against the grass, her tail 


twitching behind her. “I see it,” she whispered. “What 
now, Tall?” 

“Tallpaw,” he hissed under his breath. 

Reena had joined Tallpaw for his training session 
while Shrewpaw patrolled the boundaries with 
Hareflight. Their pelts were wind ruffled after a 
morning practicing prey-hunting skills. Now they had a 
chance to test them for real. 

“Should I stalk from behind while you two get either 
side?” Reena was proving to be a natural at planning 
an attack, even though she didn’t have the speed of a 
WindClan cat. 

Dawnstripe narrowed her eyes. “Can you move in 
without alarming it, Reena?” She glanced at Tallpaw. 
“We’ll need time to cut off its escape routes.” She 
pointed her muzzle toward a cluster of sandy dips in 
the grass beside the grazing rabbit. “If it gets to that 
warren, we’ve lost it.” 

‘Tm good at moving quietly,’ Reena promised. 
“And Tallpaw’s fast enough to catch that critter at the 
mouth of its hole!” 

Tallpaw twitched his tail with pleasure. Training with 
Reena was far better than traming with grouchy 


Shrewpaw. Dawnstripe nodded him to the wind side of 
the rabbit. She trusted him to gauge his own scent 
drift. Tallpaw licked his nose and felt for the breeze. 
He could probably get halfway to the rabbit before it 
picked up his smell. Dawnstripe began stalking over 
the grass, keeping low. 

Tallpaw nodded to Reena. “Good luck,” he 
whispered, and crept slowly upslope, keeping to one 
side of the clear grass while Reena padded forward. 

The rabbit bobbed farther along the hill, nibbling at 
greenleaf shoots. Dawnstripe moved in steadily. 
Tallpaw padded over the soft grass without ruffling it. 
He paused as he neared the rabbit. Any closer and the 
wind would carry his scent straight to it. He glanced 
across the slope at Dawnstripe. She was close to the 
warren. He waited until she’d slid into place and 
blocked the rabbit’s path to safety. 

Reena was moving in behind, her ginger-and-white 
pelt bright against the grass. But she was creeping 
slowly with movements so tiny, no prey would notice. 
The rabbit hopped a few more steps. Tallpaw sped up. 
He saw Dawnstripe nod and broke into a run, racing 
for the kill. Reena surged forward. Dawnstripe leaped. 


The rabbit bolted, kicking grass in its wake as it fled 
upslope. 

Tallpaw plunged into a flat-out sprint, Reena close 
on his heels. Dawnstripe closed in from the side. The 
rabbit was only a tail-length away. Tallpaw pounced, 
claws unsheathed. 

He hit bare grass. “Where’d it go?” Blinking, he 
spun around. The rabbit had disappeared. 

Reena scrambled to a halt, ears flat. “It found a 
hole.” She sniffed at an opening in the ground, covered 
by long grass that was crushed flat where the rabbit 
had plunged through. 

Dawnstripe lashed her tail. “There’s no way we 
could have seen that hole—” As she spoke, paw steps 
echoed from inside. Fur exploded from it as the 
terrified rabbit hurtled out. 

Tallpaw didn’t stop to think. He sprang forward, 
slamming his paws onto the rabbit’s spine, and sank his 
teeth into its neck to give a killing bite. 

Gray fur flashed at the edge of his vision. “I thought 
I smelled rabbit.” Tallpaw looked up to see Woollytail 
emerge from the hole. 

“What were you doing in there?” Reena blinked at 


the tunneler, her eyes clouded with confusion. “Were 
you waiting for it?” 

“No,” Woollytail meowed. “It surprised me as much 
as I surprised it. One moment I was propping up a 
crumbling roof; the next, paws are thumping toward 
me. I’m not going to ignore prey if it’s running toward 
me, so I chased it.” He broke into a purr. “T didn’t 
realize I was part of a hunting team.” 

Dawnstripe lifted her tail. “We’re lucky you were 
down there.” 

Tallpaw licked blood from his lips, the warm tang 
making his belly rumble. “Who’s in there with you?” 

“Sandgorse and Plumclaw are working on the 
second gorge tunnel,” Woollytail explained. “I was on 
my way back to camp when I saw the crumbling roof. 
I thought I’d fix it before it caved in.” 

Dawnstripe was looking confused. “Second gorge 
tunnel?” she echoed. “Isn’t one enough?” 

“Not with the river being so unpredictable,” 
Woollytail meowed. “After the first one flooded, we 
knew we were going to need more than one route. You 
never know—” 

Dawnstripe cut him off. “The first one flooded?” 


Her gaze snapped to Tallpaw. “What does he mean?” 

Tallpaw backed away from the rabbit. “The tunnel 
kind of flooded while I was working on it with 
Sandgorse.” 

“Kind of flooded?” Dawnstripe’s eyes widened. 

Woollytail shook earth from his pelt. “It was just a 
miscalculation,” he told her. “We dug too low the first 
time. The new tunnel’s at the right level now, but come 
leaf-bare and snowmelt, the river’s going to fill it, so 
we need a second one, higher up.” 

Dawnstripe was staring at Tallpaw as though 
Woollytail hadn’t spoken. “Were you okay?” 

Tallpaw tried to stop his pelt from pricking at the 
memory. “I didn’t even get my paws wet.” 

Woollytail snorted, amused. “He’s a great tunnel 
runner.” 

Dawnstripe’s tail bushed out. “You had to run?” 

“Tt was either that or drown,” Woollytail told her. 

“You could have been killed!” Dawnstripe’s fur 
lifted along her spine. Tallpaw couldn’t tell if she was 
more frightened or angry. 

“I was okay,” he reassured her. “Sandgorse was 
with me.” 


“Tunneling near the gorge is too dangerous,” 
Dawnstripe declared. 

Reena stepped forward, her eyes round. “Why do 
you tunnel at all?” 

“WindClan cats have always tunneled,” Woollytail 
mewed. 

Reena peered into the rabbit hole. “And there are 
cats underground right now?” She sounded amazed. 

“Of course.” 

Reena shuddered. “Do you sleep down there?” 

Tallpaw’s pelt pricked with irritation. Why was she 
acting like it was so creepy? “Sandgorse and Palebird 
are tunnelers, too,” he huffed. “They’re all WindClan 
warriors, you know.” 

“Sandgorse and Palebird kitted you, right?” Reena’s 
eyes rounded with curiosity as he nodded. “Why aren’t 
you a tunneler, then?” 

Tallpaw dropped his gaze, feeling hot beneath his 
pelt. “Heatherstar thought I'd make a better moor 
runner.” 

“Moor runner,” Woollytail muttered under his 
breath. “We’ve too many runners. Not enough 
diggers.” 


Dawnstripe had been pacing. She stopped in front of 
Woollytail. “Does Heatherstar know about the flood?” 

“Why should she?” Woollytail answered. “She’s no 
tunneler.” 

“We need to tell her.” 

Tallpaw’s belly twisted. He sensed trouble. 

“Hey, Wormpaw!” 

Shrewpaw. Tallpaw turned and saw his denmate 
charging toward him. Thats all I need. Hareflight 
bounded after his apprentice. 

“We’re going to Outlook Rock.” Shrewpaw stopped 
beside them. He glanced at Reena. “Do you want to 
come with us?” 

“They look busy,” Hareflight warned. “Don’t let us 
hold you up, Dawnstripe.” 

“T’m returning to camp with Woollytail,” Dawnstripe 
growled. 

Hareflight pricked his ears. “What’s wrong?” 

“Nothing.” Dawnstripe glanced at Woollytail. “But 
could you take Tallpaw with you to Outlook Rock?” 

Hareflight swished his tail. “Of course.” 

“What about me?” Reena stepped forward. “Can I 
come?” 


Shrewpaw looked at Hareflight. “Can she?” 

“She doesn’t need to know everything about how 
WindClan trains its warriors.” Hareflight swapped 
looks with Dawnstripe. “Perhaps you could take her 
back to camp?” 

Reena’s shoulders slumped. ‘PI be no trouble; I 
promise.” 

“Bess’Il be missing you.” Dawnstripe beckoned 
Reena with her tail. “Let’s go.” She grabbed Tallpaw’s 
rabbit in her jaws as she and Woollytail started to walk 
away. His tail-tip was flicking angrily. 

“Come on, then, you two!” Hareflight broke into a 
run, heading uphill. 

Shrewpaw darted after him. Tallpaw followed, 
giving one last glance at Dawnstripe, Woollytail, and 
Reena. 

Clouds were gathering on the horizon as they 
reached Outlook Rock. Hareflight stood on the grass 
where the stone jutted over the slope. “Shrewpaw, you 
go first. Remember, observation is an important part of 
your final assessment.” 

Shrewpaw padded to the edge. Peering down at the 
meadows and forest stretching below, he began to list 


what he could see. “Monster. Dog by the Twolegplace. 
Buzzard circling Highstones . . .” 

Tallpaw stuck close to his denmate, trying to spot 
each new find as Shrewpaw listed it. “Can I try?” he 
asked Hareflight, before Shrewpaw could call 
everything in sight. At this rate there would be nothing 
left for him to point out. 

“Swap places,” Hareflight ordered. 

Shrewpaw turned and pushed past Tallpaw. 
Tallpaw’s heart lurched as his paws slithered on the 
smooth rock. Carefully he took Shrewpaw’s place, 
bracing himself against the breeze. “I can smell the 
Thunderpath,” he called to Hareflight. “It smells as 
though monsters have been traveling it all day.” He 
scanned the land, struggling to find something 
Shrewpaw had missed. On a treetop beyond the 
cluster of Twolegplace, he could make out some 
movement, and recognized the dark feathers of a bird 
of prey. Half guessing, he began to describe it. “A 
buzzard is teaching its fledglings to fly.” 

“How can you see that?” Shrewpaw nosed in 
beside him. 

Tallpaw gripped with his claws, trying to keep his 


place. “There!” He flicked his muzzle toward the 
distant tree. 

“That’s not a buzzard,” Shrewpaw scoffed. 

Tallpaw glanced back at Hareflight. The brown 
warrior was squinting. “It’s the right color.” 

“How can you see _ fledglngs?” Shrewpaw 
challenged. 

“Why else would a buzzard be balancing on the 
edge of its nest in the middle of greenleaf?” Tallpaw 
retorted. 

“Nice guesswork, Tallpaw,” Hareflight praised him. 

“Is that what were practicing?” Shrewpaw 
sneered. “Guessing?” He turned his tail on Tallpaw 
and stomped back to Hareflight’s side. “I thought we 
were practicing our observation skills.” 

Tallpaw growled under his breath. Training with 
Reena—even if she couldn’t get his name right—had 
been much more fun. 


The sun was sliding toward Highstones as they 
reached camp. Tallpaw’s belly was rumbling. As he 
followed Hareflight, Shrewpaw, and Dawnstripe 
toward the entrance, he smelled Sandgorse and 


Plumclaw’s fresh scents on the grass. The tunneling 
patrol must have returned recently. He pushed through 
the heather tunnel, his heart quickening as he saw 
Sandgorse, Plumclaw, Woollytail, Hickorynose, and 
Mistmouse gathered in the Meeting Hollow. 
Heatherstar and Reedfeather faced them stiffly. 

Hareflight trotted into camp behind Tallpaw and 
stopped. “Looks like the tunnelers have got more news 
about the gorge tunnel.” 

“Great.” Shrewpaw sounded unenthusiastic. He 
padded past his mentor. “Can I get something to eat?” 

Hareflight nodded. “You too, Tallpaw,” he meowed. 
“You must be hungry.” 

“Thanks.” Tallpaw crossed the tussocks, his gaze 
lingering on the Meeting Hollow. 

“Tallpaw!” Reena’s mew made him spin around. 

The rogue she-cat was settled in a patch of sunshine 
beside the elders’ den. A lapwing lay beside her, half- 
eaten. Its rich scent washed Tallpaw’s tongue. 

“Do you want some?” Reena called. “I can’t eat all 
this.” 

Gratefully Tallpaw hurried toward her. “What 
happened to the rabbit we caught?” 


“Dawnstripe gave it to the elders.” 

Whiteberry stuck his head out of the den. “It was 
very tasty.” His gaze moved toward the Meeting 
Hollow. “Reena said that the tunnelers had helped 
catch it.” 

Tallpaw took a bite of lapwing, his belly growling. 
“Woollytail flushed it out of a hole for me,” he told 
Whiteberry with his mouth full. 

“Perhaps Heatherstar’s giving the other tunnelers 
hunting tips.” Whiteberry sniffed. “They’ve been 
talking since Sandgorse’s patrol got back.” 

From the bristling of the tunnelers’ fur and the dark 
look in Heatherstar’s eyes, Tallpaw guessed they 
weren’t talking about hunting. Besides, tunnelers were 
already as good at hunting as moor runners, in their 
own way. 

“Great lapwing,” he told Reena, suddenly aware that 
she was watching him. “Did you catch it?” 

Reena nudged him with a paw. “Don’t be silly,” she 
purred. “That’s proper moor hunting. Give me a barn 
full of mice and I’m as fast as the next cat, but chasing 
birds through heather takes more skill than I’ve got.” 

“You wait till the end of greenleaf.” Tallpaw ripped 


away another mouthful of bird flesh. “You'll be 
plucking buzzards from the sky.” 

Reena purred. “You think?” She didn’t sound 
convinced. 

Tallpaw stiffened as Heatherstar and Reedfeather 
left the Meeting Hollow. He searched the tunnelers’ 
faces as they headed for the prey heap. What had they 
been discussing? Tallpaw quickly swallowed his 
mouthful of lapwing as his father veered toward him. 
He leaped to his paws. Had Sandgorse heard how 
he’d caught the rabbit? Was he coming to congratulate 
him? Then Tallpaw caught sight of Sandgorse’s 
expression, and his heart sank. 

Behind him, the gorse rattled as Whiteberry ducked 
back inside her den. Reena shifted her paws. She 
looked uneasy. She must have seen the thunderous 
look on Sandgorse’s face, too. 

“Hey, Sandgorse.” An ominous feeling sat like a 
stone in Tallpaw’s belly. 

Sandgorse stopped in front of him, eyes blazing. 
“Why did you have to tell Heatherstar that you nearly 
drowned?” 

“I—II didn’t!” Tallpaw backed away. “It was 


Woollytail. He told Dawnstripe.” 

“Youre such a coward, you can’t even own up to 
your own mistake!” 

“What mistake?” Why was Sandgorse so angry? 

“It’s bad enough that my son is too rabbit-hearted to 
go underground,” Sandgorse snarled. “Now I discover 
that he’s so scared of getting his paws wet he wants to 
stop everyone from going underground!” 

“I don’t!” Tallpaw’s heart pounded in his throat. 
What had Heatherstar told the tunnelers? 

“Thanks to you and your tattling, Heatherstar’s 
ordered us to close off the gorge tunnel and stop all 
work there.” Sandgorse leaned closer, his breath hot 
on Tallpaw’s muzzle. “You get a fright, and a project 
that we ‘ve spent moons on has to be abandoned.” 

Tallpaw shrank as his father showed his teeth. “Just 
because you don’t want to be a tunneler,” Sandgorse 
hissed, “doesn’t mean you have to spoil it for everyone 
else! From now on, stay away from me and the 
tunnels!” 


j 
£— 





CHAPTER 14 
te 


ko 


Tallpaw hung his head over the side of his nest and 
peered out from under the gorse. The clearing was 
empty. While the Clan slept, the waning moon silvered 
the tussocks and spilled shadows across the Meeting 
Hollow. Tallpaw blinked up at the stars. Ave you there, 


StarClan? Can you see me? He wondered if Finchkit 
was watching him. Would she have been such a 
disappointment to Sandgorse? Maybe she would have 
known how to make Palebird happy. 

Shrewpaw and Reena were snoring gently in the 
nests behind him. Loneliness hollowed out Tallpaw’s 
chest until he couldn’t bear it any longer. He crept 
from his nest and slid out of camp. Beyond the heather 
walls, a soft breeze tugged his fur. The moor stretched 
before him, drenched in moonlight. Tallpaw broke into 
a run, relishing the wind against his fur, lengthening his 
strides until he felt like a bird skimming the grass. He 
headed for the moor-top, skirting the heather, staying in 
the open, out of breath by the time he reached Outlook 
Rock. 

Up here the wind pushed hard enough to make him 
pad warily across the stone, taking care not to slip. He 
stopped at the edge and stared across the sleeping 
valley. Far beyond the meadows, an owl screeched. 
Tallpaw narrowed his eyes, seeing wings flutter in the 
top of a distant oak. An owl lifted and circled up into 
the peat-black sky. Is that what it feels like to join 
StarClan? Tallpaw imagined lifting off from Outlook 


Rock and spiraling into the stars. 

The grass rustled behind him. Paws brushed the 
rock. 

Tallpaw spun around. “Who’s there?” He could just 
make out the outline of a cat against the dark bulk of 
the moor. 

“It’s me—Sparrow.” The tom’s mew was soft. “Is 
that Tallpaw?” 

Tallpaw dipped his head. “Yes.” 

“Are you supposed to be out here by yourself?” 

Tallpaw turned back to the horizon. “Probably not.” 

“Do you mind if I join you?” Sparrow jumped onto 
the stone and sat down beside Tallpaw. “I couldn’t 
sleep.” 

“Do you ever wonder what it would be like to fly?” 
Tallpaw murmured. He gazed at the owl as it swooped 
low over a meadow. 

“I would think it’s hard work.” Sparrow’s tail 
whisked over the rock. “If you stop flapping, you fall. 
Pd rather feel the earth beneath my paws, know 
where I am just by looking around me.” 

Tallpaw glanced at him. “Do you like being a 
rogue?” 


Sparrow’s eyes glinted. “Is that what I am?” 

“That’s what warriors call cats who don’t live in 
Clans.” 

“Then I guess I’m a rogue.” 

“Why are you here?” Tallpaw asked. 

“T couldn’t sleep,” Sparrow repeated. 

“Not on the rock. I mean, why are you staying with 
WindClan?” 

“Its where my friends wanted to come,” Sparrow 
meowed. “So I came too.” He gazed into Tallpaw’s 
eyes. “Why are you here?” 

Tallpaw blinked. What did he mean? Why am 1 
with WindClan? No, thats a dumb question. “Do 
you mean why am I on Outlook Rock?” 

“If you like.” Sparrow turned and stared across the 
valley. 

“T couldn’t sleep, like you.” 

“Something bothering you?” 

Sandgorse. Sadness and anger welled up until 
Tallpaw’s throat tightened. “My father hates me. He 
wants me to be a tunneler, but I hate tunneling.” Once 
Tallpaw started talking, he couldn’t stop. “I tried going 
underground but the river broke through the clay and 


chased us and now Heatherstar’s found out and 
banned them from tunneling and Sandgorse thinks it’s 
all my fault because I’m a coward.” The words rushed 
from Tallpaw so fast it surprised him. He stopped and 
took a deep breath. 

Sparrow hadn’t moved. He sat as still as the rock, 
gazing out to the horizon. “Ave you a coward?” 

Tallpaw bristled. “No!” 

“Then Sandgorse is wrong,’ Sparrow meowed 
simply. 

“I was scared, though,” Tallpaw confessed. “When 
the tunnel flooded.” 

‘Td have been scared, too.” Sparrow shifted his 
paws. “No cat wants to be trapped underground in a 
flood.” 

“Sandgorse wasn’t scared,” Tallpaw pointed out. 

“Sandgorse has been facing floods for moons.” 

“Perhaps I should become a tunneler.” Tallpaw 
sighed. “If 7 faced floods for moons, I might get used 
to it too.” 

Sparrow caught his gaze and held it. “Is that what 
you want?” 

“Tt’s what Sandgorse wants.” 


“But is it what you want?” 

“No.” Tallpaw’s pelt pricked with frustration. He’d 
been over this before. “But what I want doesn’t seem 
important.” 

“It doesn’t seem important to Sandgorse.” Sparrow 
blinked. “But I’m guessing it’s important to you.” 

Of course it’s important to me! 

“You should spend more time aiming for what you 
want,’ Sparrow meowed. “And less time worrying 
about what your father wants.” 

Thats easy to say. Tallpaw twitched his tail. 

“Sandgorse chose his own destiny,’ Sparrow went 
on. “Why should he get to choose yours, too?” 

In the end, we choose our own destinies. 
Hawkheart’s words echoed in Tallpaw’s mind. “You’re 
right!” Tallpaw stared at Sparrow. “Why should 
Sandgorse get to choose my path as well as his own? 
My paws are my own; I’ll decide what to do with 
them.” Energy surged through him. 

Sparrow stood up and turned toward the moor. 

“Are you going?” Tallpaw called. 

“I want to see what the night prey’s like in the 
heather,’ Sparrow told him. “I’m sure the elders will 


like waking up to a full prey heap.” 

Tallpaw watched him pad across the rock. “Thank 
you,” he meowed. 

Sparrow glanced back. “What for?” 

Before Tallpaw could answer, the rogue slipped into 
the shadow of the moor. Tallpaw turned back to the 
valley and gazed at the stars on the horizon, his heart 
feeling lighter and freer than it had in moons. 

You chose your destiny, Sandgorse. I'll choose 
mine. 


“You’re still half-asleep!” Dawnstripe nudged 
Tallpaw’s shoulder as he dragged his paws toward the 
entrance. His feet felt as numb as stones and his 
mouth was dry. He’d sat on Outlook Rock until the 
horizon had started to lighten. Only then did he return 
to his nest. He’d managed to snatch a short sleep 
before the sun rose, but it wasn’t enough to stop his 
eyelids from drooping as he headed out on patrol with 
Aspenfall, Dawnstripe, and Stagleap. 

“Bring back a mouse!” Lilywhisker called from 
outside the elders’ den. “Flailfoot’s starving.” 

Tallpaw frowned. Hadn’t Sparrow restocked the 


prey heap like he’d promised? 

“Reedfeather’s patrol will be back soon,” 
Dawnstripe called back. The WindClan deputy had 
taken Doespring and Appledawn hunting. 

Mole padded from the gorse and stopped beside 
Lilywhisker, his nose twitching. “I smell rabbit.” As he 
spoke, the entrance tunnel shivered and Sparrow 
padded into camp. A plump rabbit hung from his jaws. 

Lilywhisker’s eyes lit up. 

Dawnstripe purred. “You’re just in time.” She 
flicked her tail toward the elders’ den. Sparrow nodded 
and carried his catch across camp. 

Belly rumbling at the scent of fresh prey, Tallpaw 
stumbled dozily after the rest of his patrol. 

“Excuse me.” Hickorynose shouldered past with 
Mistmouse, Plumclaw, Woollytail, and Sandgorse 
behind him. 

“Why can’t tunnelers wait their turn like other 
warriors?” Aspenfall grumbled under his breath as he 
halted to let the tunneling patrol through the entrance 
first. 

Tallpaw snapped his head up and tried to catch 
Sandgorse’s eye. Before he pushed his way through 


the heather, his father shot him a look that stabbed 
Tallpaw’s heart. 

Dawnstripe brushed softly against Tallpaw. “Why 
don’t you run to the first marker?” she suggested. “It 
might wake you up a bit.” Tallpaw heard sympathy in 
her mew. She saw how Sandgorse looked at me. 

“Okay.” Running wouldn’t make Sandgorse’s angry 
stare hurt any less, but Tallpaw was grateful that his 
mentor cared. As he raced onto the grass, he saw the 
ginger tip of Sandgorse’s tail snake into the bushes. 
Why cant I have normal kin who care about my 
training and who are proud of me? 

Scowling, Tallpaw rounded the edge of the camp 
and raced for the first marker. As he neared the 
border with Fourtrees, he began to pick up scents from 
the forest. Somehow the wind carried scents more 
easily from this side of the moor—including, when the 
breeze blew in the right direction, the harsh smell of 
Twolegplace. Tallpaw paused and tasted the arr. 
Something was different; there was a faint, ominous 
tang below the scent of the bright-yellow gorse flowers 
and the tiny, purple blooms on the heather. His hackles 
rose. 


Not dog. Not Twoleg. He sniffed again. Sparrow? 
Perhaps the rogue had left scent when he was hunting. 
It didn’t smell like Sparrow, but it was familiar. 7 
smelled it at the Gathering! Concentrating, Tallpaw 
sifted through his memory of the scents he’d learned at 
full moon. Pinesap? Stale river water? Neither! It’s 
ThunderClan! 

Tallpaw scanned the heather. The scent was fresh. 
A ThunderClan cat had passed this way since dawn. 
He had to tell Dawnstripe. He whirled around and 
raced back toward camp. Plunging through a swathe 
of bristly gorse, he exploded out on the other side. 
Dawnstripe, Aspenfall, and Stagleap were padding 
across the grassy clearing, following his trail to the 
border. 

“Invasion!” Tallpaw skidded to a halt, panting. 

Aspenfall’s pelt bushed up. “Where?” 

Tallpaw tasted the air. ThunderClan scent was 
wafting from the slope behind him to the moor-top. He 
scanned the hillside. Thick-furred tails bobbed through 
a swathe of dark-green bracken. “Everywhere! 
ThunderClan has invaded!” Hurtlng forward, he 
streaked past his patrol. 


“Tallpaw!” Dawnstripe yowled after him. 

He glanced backward. She was staring at him wide- 
eyed. Why wasn’t she following? Tallpaw pounded 
upslope and crashed into the bracken. ThunderClan 
scent flooded his nose as he pursued them though the 
feathery fronds. He burst onto open grass, astounded 
to see the ThunderClan patrol already nearing the 
moor-top. Two broad-shouldered warriors, one 
tortoiseshell, one gray, were leading two younger cats 
at a calm, purposeful walk. 

How dare they trespass so deep into WindClan 
territory? They weren’t even trying to hide! Tallpaw 
raced toward them. “Weasel hearts!” he screeched. 

The ThunderClan patrol turned and stared at him. 
The tortoiseshell arched her back, eyes wide. 

“Tallpaw!” Dawnstripe’s yowl sounded behind him. 

“TIl hold them off!” Tallpaw unsheathed his claws, 
ready to sink them into the first warrior he reached. 
Paw steps thrummed behind him. His patrol was 
catching up. He wouldn’t have to fight alone. 

The ThunderClan cats backed away, their ears flat. 

Tallpaw leaped at the gray warrior. “Trespassers! 
WindClan, attack!” 





“Tallpaw!” Claws grabbed his flanks and dragged 
him backward. “Stop!” 

Tallpaw slammed to the ground as Dawnstripe 
knocked his legs from under him. His chin hit the grass 
with a thump. He struggled to his paws and glared at 


her. “What are you doing?” 

She glared back. “They’re allowed to be here.” 

Tallpaw blinked. 

“It’s their route to Mothermouth.” 

Tallpaw’s pelt burned. What a rabbit-brain! 
Swallowing, he turned and faced the ThunderClan 
warriors. “Sorry,” he mumbled. 

Dawnstripe nodded toward the younger cats. 
“Fuzzypaw and Robinpaw are probably going to share 
tongues with StarClan at the Moonstone. That’s right, 
isn’t it, Dappletail?” 

The tortoiseshell let her fur le flat again. “Yes. 
Thank you, Dawnstripe.” 

The gray warrior’s whiskers twitched. “I thought 
we were going to get shredded for a moment.” 

Tallpaw fluffed out his chest. “I could shred—” 

Dawnstripe padded in front of him before he could 
finish. “You know how eager apprentices can be.” She 
dipped her head to the gray tom. “Windflight, I’m sorry 
if he alarmed you.” 

Fuzzypaw peered around Dawnstripe at Tallpaw. 
“We thought he was a rabbit,’ he mewed. 

Tallpaw shook out his black-and-white fur. “You 


must have some weird-looking rabbits in the forest.” 

Robinpaw sniffed. “Not as weird-looking as you.” 

‘Tm sure youll want to be on your way,” 
Dawnstripe meowed firmly. As she shooed them away 
with a flick of her tail, Aspenfall and Stagleap caught 
up. 
Aspenfall’s gaze flashed toward Tallpaw. “You 
managed to stop the war, then?” 

“Only just,” Dawnstripe muttered. 

“Your apprentice is very fast,’ Windflight meowed 
generously. 

“That’s true,” Dawnstripe agreed. “He’ll be a good 
warrior when he’s learned a little common sense.” 

“I forgot about the routes to Mothermouth over the 
moor.” Tallpaw felt the fur bristle along his spine. 
“Okay?” 

Stagleap nudged his shoulder. “Come on. Let’s 
check the border anyway.” He headed down the slope, 
weaving through the bracken stems. 

Relieved to escape the stares of the ThunderClan 
apprentices, Tallpaw padded after him, breaking into a 
run when he reached a flat stretch of grass. He hared 
after Stagleap, the wind streaming through his pelt. 


Pushing harder with every stride, Tallpaw realized how 
easily he was gaining on the stocky, young warrior. He 
curved his spine deeper, stretched out farther, and 
within moments he was neck and neck with Stagleap. 
He relaxed, matching his pace to Stagleap’s. 

Stagleap glanced sideways at him as the moor 
sloped more steeply toward the Fourtrees border, and 
both cats slowed. “Have you grown?” 

“You’ve shrunk,” Tallpaw teased. He could taste the 
air growing rich with the scent of tree sap as the sweet 
smell of heather faded behind them. 

Stagleap pulled up first as they reached the scent 
line, and Tallpaw scrambled to a halt a moment later, 
skidding across the border half a tail-length before 
leaping back onto WindClan territory. Through the 
trees, he could just make out the tops of the Great 
Oaks at Fourtrees. 

“This way.” Stagleap led him along the trees toward 
a thicket of brambles that spilled out of the trees 
nearer to ShadowClan territory. Tallpaw swerved to 
avoid the tangle of prickly branches, glad that the 
brambles on the moor were few and far between. 
He’d hate to be trapped among thorns, unable to run 


without snagging his pelt at every turn. He sniffed 
gingerly at a bramble tendril, scared a prickle might 
lose its grip and let a branch whip across his muzzle. 

The fresh scent of pinesap bathed his tongue. 
ShadowClan? There was bound to be ShadowClan 
scent here, Tallpaw reminded himself. They were tail- 
lengths from the border. And yet the scent smelled 
fresh, as though many pelts had brushed past not long 
ago. Tallpaw glanced at Stagleap. Should he say 
something? 

His ear twitched. He wasn’t ready to make another 
rabbit-brained mistake. Not so soon. There was 
probably a good reason that there was ShadowClan 
scent here. Perhaps a ShadowClan patrol was on its 
way to the Moonstone, too. Perhaps the jumble of 
smells had drifted over the border and clung to the 
brambles. Surely if something were wrong, Stagleap 
would have noticed it? 

Stagleap was veering away from Fourtrees and 
heading for the ShadowClan border line as it sloped 
toward the Thunderpath. Tallpaw knew that the 
ShadowClan camp was on the far side of the 
Thunderpath, but they had spread their scent marks on 


this side too, along the edge of the trees as far as the 
hollow with the Great Oaks. WindClan didn’t object; 
they didn’t want the trees for themselves. 

Tallpaw caught up to his Clanmate. “Did you smell 
anything?” he asked casually. “Back there, I mean.” 

“Only the wind.” Stagleap paused as Aspenfall and 
Dawnstripe appeared at the crest of the hill. He called 
to them. “Has ThunderClan declared war?” 

Aspenfall’s tail quivered. “They know it was an 
honest mistake.” 

Dawnstripe pulled up beside Tallpaw. “How’s the 
border?” She sniffed the air. “Have you started 
marking it?” 

“Not yet.” Tallpaw realized that he’d been so busy 
worrying about ShadowClan scent, he’d forgotten to 
leave his own. He quickly sprayed a clump of grass 
and followed Stagleap down the slope. After a few 
strides, he paused and scanned the hillside. Far away, 
along the Thunderpath, he could see the ThunderClan 
patrol, specks now. Tallpaw winced as he imagined the 
story the apprentices would tell on their return, of a 
rabbit-brained WindClan apprentice who thought they 
were attacking WindClan at a steady walk. 


He suddenly noticed that Stagleap had slowed. The 
dark brown warrior sniffed the grass, padded forward 
a tail-length, then sniffed again. His hackles rose. 

“Is something wrong?” Aspenfall asked. 

“I keep getting whiffs of ShadowClan on this side of 
the border.” 

Aspenfall trotted over and ran his muzzle across the 
grass. He wrinkled his nose. 

Dawnstripe opened her mouth. “I can smell it from 
here,” she growled. “A ShadowClan patrol has crossed 
the border.” 

“They didn’t go far.” Stagleap was checking the 
grass deeper into WindClan territory. “There’s no scent 
here.” 

“Why would they cross at all?” Aspenfall asked. 

Tallpaw glanced up the slope toward the brambles. 
“T smelled ShadowClan up there, too.” 

Aspenfall jerked his head up and stared at him. 
“Why didn’t you say?” 

“I thought they might be on their way to the 
Moonstone like the ThunderClan cats.” 

“ShadowClan doesn’t need to cross our territory to 
reach the Moonstone,” Aspenfall snapped. “Their 


camp is on the other side of the Thunderpath, just like 
Highstones.” 

Tallpaw gulped. “There were a lot of scents up 
there.” 

Aspenfall broke into a run and bounded up the slope. 
Dawnstripe raced after him with Stagleap at her heels. 
Tallpaw followed, his heart pounding. What had he 
done? He caught up with his Clanmates as they 
investigated the bramble thicket. 

Aspenfall dodged back and forth, sniffing leaves. 
“There are too many scents to count.” 

“Why didn’t you mention this before, Tallpaw?” 
Dawnstripe’s pelt was spiked along her spine. 

“I didn’t want to be wrong again.” Tallpaw felt cold. 
“What does it mean?” 

“A huge ShadowClan patrol has crossed the 
border.” Stagleap had his muzzle pressed to the 
ground, following a line of trampled grass across the 
moor. “They headed this way.” 

“Toward the camp!” Aspenfall charged past 
Stagleap and plunged into the heather. 

Dawnstripe launched herself across the grass. 
“Come on, Tallpaw!” 


Tallpaw bolted after her, Stagleap racing at his side. 
Tallpaw ran faster than he’d ever run before. Stagleap 
fell behind as Tallpaw pushed harder, hearing nothing 
but the blood roaring in his ears. Aspenfall and 
Dawnstripe were just a few paces ahead of him, 
swerving along a rabbit trail through a dense swathe of 
gorse and then bursting into the clearing outside camp. 

Yowls rang out beyond the heather wall. An 
agonized screech. A terrified wail. 

Dawnstripe skidded to a halt. Tallpaw slammed into 
her flank as Aspenfall pulled up beside her. “Why are 
we stopping?” Tallpaw gasped. 

Stagleap caught up with them, panting. 

“Fetch the patrol that’s hunting near the RiverClan 
border!” Dawnstripe ordered Tallpaw. “We’ll need 
every spare warrior.” 

“I want to fight!” Tallpaw protested. If it hadn’t 
been for him missing the first signs of invasion, they 
might have stopped the ShadowClan patrol from 
reaching the camp. 

‘TIl go.” Aspenfall hurtled away. 

“Okay, then.” Dawnstripe stared at Tallpaw. “Are 
you ready?” 


Tallpaw nodded. “Ready.” 

“Come on!” With a battle yowl, Dawnstripe raced 
through the entrance. Tallpaw shot after her, Stagleap 
crowding his heels. Tallpaw burst out of the heather, 
claws unsheathed, and stared in horror. 

The camp seethed with snarling cats. Tails lashed. 
Paws flailed. The stench of pinesap mingled with the 
tang of blood. At the center Stonetooth, the 
ShadowClan deputy, reared up on his hind paws, teeth 
bared. 

“Spare no one!” he snarled, slamming his paws 
down on Hareflight’s spine. Hareflight rolled clear and 
leaped to his paws, hissing. 

Tallpaw looked around, frozen. 

“Circle the clearing and pick off the outsiders!” 
Dawnstripe ordered before she leaped into the middle 
of the fighting. As she disappeared beneath a huge 
tabby, Tallpaw scanned the edges of the camp. 

Algernon and Bess were outside the nursery: one 
ducking, the other slicing at ShadowClan attackers. 
Meadowslip and Palebird were nowhere to be seen, so 
Tallpaw figured they must be inside the nursery. Reena 
crouched in the entrance, slashing at any ShadowClan 


muzzle that came near. 

Shrewpaw and Hareflight wrestled a ShadowClan 
tom at the entrance to the medicine den. Hareflight 
grasped him in his claws and dragged him backward. 
Unbalanced, the ShadowClan warrior kicked out. 
Quick as a bird, Shrewpaw swooped and sank his 
teeth into the tom’s hind legs. 

“Nice move, Shrewpaw!” Brackenwing called to 
her kit across the clearing. Without pausing for breath, 
she ducked and spun around, knocking a ShadowClan 
she-cat to the ground with a well-aimed blow. 

Sparrow crouched at the entrance to the elders’ den, 
pelt bushed up. Redclaw was braced at his side as two 
ShadowClan toms stalked toward them. 

“You need rogues to defend you?” one of the 
ShadowClan warriors sneered, showing his teeth. 

Sparrow lashed out and knocked him flying. 
Redclaw lunged and sent the other tom reeling with a 
blow to his muzzle. 

Heart pounding in his ears, Tallpaw crept forward. 
Circle the clearing and pick off the outsiders. He 
recognized Frogpaw’s dark gray pelt from the 
Gathering. Belly flat to the grass, the ShadowClan 


apprentice was creeping up on Ryestalk as she 
grappled with Newtpaw. Newtpaw dived beneath 
Ryestalk and flipped her onto her back, then started 
battering Ryestalk’s muzzle. Ryestalk thrashed like 
wounded prey, trying to find her paws, her soft belly 
exposed. Frogpaw crouched even lower. 

He’s going to attack! Tallpaw raced toward him, 
yowling in fury. The ShadowClan apprentice leaped up, 
eyes wide. Tallpaw slammed into him. Frogpaw 
staggered backward, eyes flashing with rage. Hissing, 
he reared up and sliced Tallpaw’s muzzle. Pain 
scorched through Tallpaw, but rage kept him on his 
feet. He narrowed his eyes and lashed out, keeping his 
hind paws firmly planted on the grass. 

Ryestalk rolled past him, her claws dug deep into 
Newtpaw’s flanks. “Are you okay?” she yowled to 
Tallpaw. 

Tallpaw dodged a blow from Frogpaw and hooked 
the apprentice’s legs from beneath him with a well- 
aimed kick. “I’m great!” 

As Frogpaw hit the ground, Tallpaw sank his claws 
into the ShadowClan cat’s shoulders. “Who smells of 
nettles now?” he growled, pressing Frogpaw’s muzzle 


into the grass. 

Suddenly claws pierced his flanks. Tallpaw yelped 
as he was dragged backward. He tried to struggle free 
but his pelt was caught fast. 

“You smell worse than nettles!” Ashpaw hissed in 
his ear. “You smell of sheep dirt!” She flung him to the 
ground and plunged her paws into his belly. 

Gasping, he tried to roll aside, but Frogpaw had 
leaped up and was pummeling Tallpaw’s muzzle with a 
flurry of blows. Tallpaw’s thoughts spiraled into panic. 
He flailed desperately, trying to break free, but 
Ashpaw and Frogpaw had him pinned to the ground. 

Gray fur flashed at the corner of his eye. “When 
you hear the next yowl, get to your paws and start 
swinging,” came a gruff voice. Mole! 

The rogue grabbed Frogpaw and dragged him 
backward. Frogpaw screeched with fury. Tallpaw 
kicked free of Ashpaw and jumped to his paws. While 
Mole flung Frogpaw onto his back, Tallpaw flew at 
Ashpaw, claws stretched. Ashpaw’s eyes widened 
with shock as his claws raked her muzzle. 

Tallpaw kept swinging. “The only thing you’ll be 
smelling for a while is blood!” he screeched. He 


kicked off with his hind legs and hurled himself at the 
ShadowClan apprentice. She rolled underneath him 
and crouched against the grass while he sank his teeth 
into her shoulder. Screeching with pain, she tore free 
and raced for the entrance. Newtpaw was ahead of 
her, her tail bushing as she fled the WindClan camp. 
Aspenfall was chasing a tabby tom across the 
clearing. Redclaw hissed at a white warrior as he fled 
while Hareflight and Dawnstripe herded a gang of 
yowling ShadowClan warriors toward the entrance. 
We’ve driven them out! Tallpaw realized. As he felt a 
rush of triumph, a screech sounded from the Meeting 
Hollow. Tallpaw rushed to the edge and looked down. 
In the shadow of Tallrock, Heatherstar reared over 
Stonetooth. She slammed her paws down, sinking her 
claws deep into his pelt. Blood dripped from above her 
eye and she blinked it away. “Why did you attack us? 
Why?” She shook the ShadowClan deputy savagely. 
“Why shouldn’t we?” Stonetooth hung limp in her 
claws, his eyes shining with hate. “We could hunt on 
these moors just as well as you.” 
Heatherstar’s eyes flashed. “The moors are ours 
and always will be.” She hauled Stonetooth to his paws 


and flung him toward the edge of the hollow. “Run 
after your weasel-hearted Clanmates before I rip you 
to shreds.” 

Stonetooth climbed out of the dip, leaving blood in 
his wake. “We’ve seen your weaknesses, you 
rabbits!” he snarled. “Next time, we’ll drive you from 
your dens for good.” Hissing at the watching WindClan 
warriors, he limped out of the camp. 

Heatherstar turned to her medicine cat. “Check the 
injured, Hawkheart.” She shook her head, sending 
scarlet droplets onto the churned-up sand. As 
Hawkheart moved toward her, she stepped back. “I’m 
fine,” she meowed. “Start with the others.” 

Hawkheart turned and scanned the clearing. 
“Barkpaw!” 

Tallpaw jerked around. Where was Barkpaw? He 
felt a surge of relief as he saw his friend hurrying out 
of the elders’ den. “No injuries there!” he called to his 
mentor. 

As he spoke, Reedfeather crashed through the 
entrance. “We’ve gotten rid of Stonetooth.” The 
WindClan deputy lashed his tail. “Appledawn and 
Doespring are chasing him back to his own territory.” 


“Hawkheart!” A panicked cry rose from the 
tunnelers’ nests. Redclaw was leaning over 
Brackenwing. His mate was sprawled in the long 
grass, unmoving. “She’s bleeding!” 

“Barkpaw,” Hawkheart ordered, “fetch spiderweb 
and thyme leaves.” He raced across the camp, 
clearng the Meeting Hollow in a leap. Crouching 
beside Brackenwing, he sniffed along her flank. “It’s a 
gut injury.” Gently he rolled the pale ginger she-cat 
onto her side. 

Tallpaw crept closer, wincing as he saw blood 
flooding from Brackenwing’s belly. Brackenwing 
groaned, her eyes rolling back until only the whites 
showed. 

Redclaw leaned close to her cheek. “It’s okay. 
Hawkheart will fix you.” 

Hareflight and Cloudrunner crowded at the edge of 
the bracken. Palebird nosed past Algie and Bess. 
“Brackenwing?” 

“What’s wrong?” Meadowslip was just behind her, 
her kit-swollen belly swaying. 

Lilywhisker and Flailfoot watched, trembling, from 
the entrance to elders’ den. “It looks bad,” Flailfoot 


whispered. 

Tallpaw stumbled aside as his mother pushed past. 
“Brackenwing!” Palebird’s voice cracked as she 
crouched beside her friend. 

Barkpaw raced out of his den with a wad of 
cobweb and leaves clamped between his jaws. He 
dropped them at Hawkheart’s side and stared at his 
mother. “Brackenwing?” 

The she-cat’s eyes were closing. Redclaw looked at 
Hawkheart, his eyes as round as an owl’s. “Can you 
save her?” 

Hawkheart touched the small wad of web with his 
paw. “It’s too late,” he growled softly. “She’s lost too 
much blood.” 

“Brackenwing!” Shrewpaw pushed past Aspenfall. 
“Get up, Brackenwing! We won the battle!” He stared 
at his mother, then at Barkpaw. “What’s wrong with 
her?” 

Barkpaw met his gaze with clouded eyes but didn’t 
answer. Beside him, Brackenwing twitched, then fell 
still. 

“Brackenwing.” With a groan, Redclaw pressed his 
tawny cheek against his mate’s muzzle. 


“Brackenwing?” Panic edged Shrewpaw’s mew. 

Hareflight stepped closer to his apprentice. “She’s 
dead, Shrewpaw,” he murmured. 

Tallpaw backed away, shock trembling though every 
hair. She cant be dead! His paws trembled beneath 
him. A thought hit him like a stone. Why didnt I tell 
Stagleap about the scents? He backed away from 
his grieving Clanmates, horror twisting his belly. 

“This is my fault!” he wailed. “It’s all my fault!” 





“No.” Dawnstripe turned to face Tallpaw. “This 
was ShadowClan’s fault. No one else’s.” 

Tallpaw hardly heard her. Blood pounded in his ears. 
What have I done? All around him, his Clanmates 
stared at him as if he’d gone mad. 


Heatherstar narrowed her eyes. “What are you 
talking about, Tallpaw?” 

Tallpaw struggled to speak. “I smelled ShadowClan 
scent on the bramble thicket by Fourtrees. I should 
have said something but I didn’t.” 

“Why not?” Heatherstar demanded. 

“I thought it was just a ShadowClan patrol on the 
way to the Moonstone.” Tallpaw blinked at her, aware 
of his round-eyed Clanmates watching behind. 

“You killed her!” Dark brown fur flashed at the 
edge of his vision. Screeching, Shrewpaw flew at him. 
Tallpaw gasped as his denmate crashed into his 
shoulder. Pain seared his nose. Claws battered his 
muzzle. Tallpaw lifted his forepaws and tried to push 
Shrewpaw away as vicious blows battered his ears. 

“Control yourself!” Hareflight snatched Shrewpaw 
by the scruff and hauled him away. Tallpaw stumbled 
to regain his balance as Shrewpaw clawed the air, 
hissing. 

‘Pll never forgive you! You killed my mother.” 
Struggling free of Hareflight, the young tom glared at 
Tallpaw. 

Barkpaw padded from the bracken and touched his 


nose to his brother’s shoulder. Tallpaw desperately 
tried to catch his friend’s eye. “I’m sorry, Barkpaw.” 

Barkpaw didn’t look at him. Instead he crouched 
beside Shrewpaw like a wounded rabbit. Tallpaw’s 
heart twisted. Oh, StarClan! Forgive me! 

“Tallpaw?” Reena’s mew sounded behind 
Heatherstar. She crossed the grass and touched his 
cheek with her nose. “It wasn’t your fault,’ she 
whispered. 

“Reena!” Bess called across the clearing. “Come 
away, dear. This is Clan business.” 

“Oh, Tallpaw.” Reena backed away, eyes soft with 
sympathy. 

Heatherstar dipped her head. “You made a mistake, 
Tallpaw,” she meowed. “But this is not your fault. 
ShadowClan killed Brackenwing. Not you.” 

“But—” Tallpaw tried to argue, but Heatherstar 
turned away. 

“Lets move Brackenwing to the clearing,” the 
WindClan leader told her Clanmates. “So that we can 
mourn her properly.” 

Tallpaw pressed himself against the wall of the 
camp, sheltering in the heather fronds while Aspenfall, 


Cloudrunner, and Hareflight lifted Brackenwing’s body 
and carried it to a grassy hollow between the tussocks. 
As they laid her down, Hawkheart brought herbs from 
the medicine den and laid them along Brackenwing’s 
flank. Tallpaw could smell their pungent, green odor as 
it masked the scent of death. Redclaw and Palebird 
settled beside her but Shrewpaw kept circling, his eyes 
dark. 

“My dear friend.” Palebird pressed her muzzle into 
Brackenwing’s fur. “You’re the only one who saw 
Finchkit before she died. No one else understood my 
grief.” 

Tallpaw wished there was some way he could 
comfort his mother. But he had never been able to. His 
chest tightened. She won t want me. It’s my fault her 
friend s dead. 

As the sun rose into the sky, Hawkheart moved 
from cat to cat, checking wounds while Barkpaw 
dashed back and forth to the medicine den fetching 
herbs to treat them. Aspenfall and Ryestalk collected 
the shredded gorse around the nursery and began to 
thread it back into the walls. 

Meadowslip peeked out. “Make them thick,” she 


mewed shakily. “I want my kits to be safe if there’s 
another attack.” 

“ShadowClan won’t get through this,’ Aspenfall 
promised her, weaving another thorny stem through the 
branches. 

Stagleap helped Whiteberry, Flamepelt, and Flailfoot 
hook back the torn stems that dangled across the 
entrance to the elders’ den. Lilywhisker sat back and 
gave directions. “Weave in some heather to soften it,” 
she croaked. “The gorse thorns scrape my spine every 
time I go in.” 

“Tallpaw?” Hawkheart’s mew surprised him. 

Tallpaw glanced up at the sky. How long had he sat 
alone? Sunhigh had passed and the sun was sliding 
toward the moor-top. “What?” he meowed, feeling 
hollow inside. 

“I need to treat your wounds.” The medicine cat 
was brisk. “Stand up so I can take a look.” 

“Don’t bother.” Tallpaw stared at the ground. The 
scratches Frogpaw and Ashpaw had given him were 
throbbing. But they felt like gnat bites compared with 
the stinging wounds Shrewpaw had left on his muzzle. 
“My wounds don’t matter.” 


“Don’t be rabbit-brained.” Hawkheart crouched 
beside him. 

“But I killed her,” Tallpaw croaked. 

“You're a half-trained apprentice. The safety of the 
Clan doesn’t rest in your paws,” Hawkheart told him 
sharply. “You weren’t the only cat on that patrol. Are 
any of the others blaming themselves?” 

Tallpaw glanced across the camp to where Stagleap 
was sifting through the prey heap. He hadn’t detected 
ShadowClan’s scents. But I did. I should have told 
him. 

Hawkheart sniffed at the scratches around 
Tallpaw’s ears. Tallpaw flinched as his nose touched a 
tender wound. “Barkpaw!” Hawkheart called across 
the clearing. “Bring some dock and marigold.” 

Barkpaw’s gaze flashed toward them. Tallpaw tried 
to catch his eye, but his friend just nodded and headed 
for the medicine den. Tallpaw wondered if Barkpaw 
would ever speak to him again. 


Once Hawkheart had left and the herbs had begun 
to soothe the sting of his wounds, Tallpaw tucked his 
paws tighter under him. Palebird and Redclaw still lay 


beside Brackenwing’s body. Shrewpaw continued to 
pace in circles, while the rest of the Clan waited at the 
edge of the clearing for the night vigil to begin. Tallpaw 
watched the sun dip below the wall of the camp and 
huddled deeper into the heather, relieved as the 
shadows swallowed him. 

He stiffened as the branches around him trembled. 
Someone was coming through the entrance. He jerked 
around as Hickorynose marched into the camp. 
Sandgorse, Mistmouse, Woollytail, and Plumclaw 
followed, their eyes stretching wide as they saw the 
torn gorse and shredded grass littering the clearing, 
some of it stamed ominously red. 

Plumclaw’s pelt fluffed. “Is that Brackenwing?” 
She charged across the clearing and gazed down at the 
dead warrior’s body. “What happened?” 

Aspenfall emerged from the nursery, his fur covered 
in bits of leaf. “ShadowClan attacked.” 

“Can’t you smell their stench?” Reedfeather leaped 
out of the Meeting Hollow. “It seemed as if the entire 
Clan was here.” 

Heatherstar padded from her den, following the rim 
of the hollow and stopping beside her deputy. “It’s a 


shame you didn’t get back earlier,’ she mewed quietly 
to the tunnelers. 

Sandgorse twitched an ear. “Palebird?” 

Palebird lifted her head from beside Brackenwing. 
“T’m okay.” Her mew cracked as she spoke. 

Shrewpaw lashed his tail. “Brackenwing’s dead and 
it was Tallpaw’s fault!” 

Sandgorse blinked. “Tallpaw? How?” Nose 
twitching, he peered into the shadows, stopping when 
he spotted Tallpaw. His eyes darkened. Heart twisting, 
Tallpaw looked away. He hates me even more now. 

“Shrewpaw.” Reedfeather stepped forward. “You 
have to stop blaming Tallpaw for something 
ShadowClan did. You are Clanmates. Your loyalty is to 
each other.” 

“But—” 

Heatherstar didn’t let Shrewpaw speak. “This 
wasn’t Tallpaw’s fault, Sandgorse. Shrewpaw speaks 
from grief, that’s all.” 

Tallpaw swallowed. Was that true? No one had 
been near him all day except Hawkheart. Was the 
whole Clan grieving as much as Shrewpaw? 

“Meadowslip!” Hickorynose bounded to the nursery. 


Meadowslip squeezed out, dropping onto the grass 
and pressing her cheek to her mate’s. 

Hickorynose fussed over her. “Are you hurt?” 

“T’m fine,’ Meadowslip promised. “Bess and Algie 
defended the den with Reena.” She blinked gratefully 
across the camp at the rogues as they cleared scraps 
of heather and gorse from the bloodstained tussocks. 

“I wish I’d been here to protect you,” Hickorynose 
fretted. 

Hareflight padded toward Brackenwing’s body. “So 
do we.” Hickorynose stared in surprise at the brown 
warrior. “The tunnelers are never here when we need 
them,” Hareflight hissed. 

Reedfeather stepped forward. “We can’t keep 
blaming each other for this.” 

Woollytail’s hackles rose. “This wasn’t our fault.” 

Cloudrunner lifted his muzzle. “Where were you 
when we were fighting to defend the Clan?” 

“We were digging tunnels so you could eat come 
leaf-bare!”” Plumclaw snapped. 

Aspenfall’s tail twitched. “What good will your 
precious tunnels be if ShadowClan drives us from our 
home?” 


Sandgorse narrowed his eyes. “If you'd let us dig 
the tunnels we need, we could defend our home more 
effectively!” 

“You mean the gorge tunnel?” Aspenfall curled his 
lip. “How would that have helped today?” 

“It would have given us an escape route!” 
Sandgorse snarled. 

“To where?” Aspenfall challenged. “RiverClan 
territory?” 

Sandgorse narrowed his eyes. “We could have 
sheltered in the tunnel. It’s big enough for the whole 
Clan.” 

“You want us to leave our camp and hide?” 
Cloudrunner squared up to Sandgorse, pelt bristling. 
“Are you a warrior, or a rabbit?” 

Tallpaw braced himself. The Clan was tearing itself 
apart! 





Paw steps sounded in the shadows behind Tallpaw. 
He scented Sparrow and looked up. The rogue had slid 
among the heather fronds and stood at Tallpaw’s 
shoulder. “These are tough times, Tallpaw,’ he 
murmured. Tallpaw moved closer to the brown tom, 


relieved to have someone beside him. 

Heatherstar pushed between Cloudrunner and 
Sandgorse. “We can’t let this tragedy divide us,” she 
meowed. “We are WindClan and we are strong.” She 
dipped her head to Bess and Algernon. “And thanks to 
our visitors’ battle skills today, we are safe. If they 
hadn’t been here, we may have lost our home.” 

“What are you saying?” Hickorynose curled his lip. 
“That without them, ShadowClan would have won?” 

Heatherstar met his gaze steadily. “Half our 
warriors were away tunneling. It made us vulnerable.” 

Tallpaw gulped. This felt like a direct challenge to 
the tunnelers! Beside him, Sparrow pricked his ears. 

“We were lucky our visitors were with us today,” 
Heatherstar went on. “But they won’t be with us 
forever. What will happen if ShadowClan attacks once 
they’ ve left?” 

Plumclaw’s eyes stretched into twin moons. “Are 
you saying we have to stop tunneling?” 

Tallpaw’s pads pricked as he watched his father’s 
tail sweep the grass behind him. 

“No,” Heatherstar meowed. “But we should send 
out smaller tunneling patrols, and give you more 


training in aboveground battle skills.” 

Sandgorse lifted his chin. “So our skills aren’t 
enough to protect the Clan?” 

‘Pm saying that the more skills we share, the 
better.” Heatherstar gazed down at Brackenwing. 
“But first we shall join as one Clan to sit vigil for our 
fallen Clanmate.” She crouched down and touched her 
nose to Brackenwing’s ginger pelt. 

Reedfeather jomed her. As the Clan gathered 
around the dead warrior, Tallpaw ducked out from the 
heather and crossed the camp. Squeezing in beside 
Palebird, he pressed his muzzle to Brackenwing’s pelt. 
Beneath her blood-soaked pelt, she felt like stone. 
Tallpaw leaned against his mother, breathing in the 
warm scent of her fur. 

“Palebird?” he whispered. Please tell me its going 
to be okay. 

Palebird nuzzled closer to Brackenwing. Heart 
aching, Tallpaw screwed his eyes shut. 

“What’s this about a gorge tunnel?” he heard 
Sparrow whisper from the shadows behind. 

Sandgorse answered him. “We spent half of leaf- 
bare and all newleaf digging it,’ he growled under his 


breath. “But we’ ve had to abandon it.” 

“Why?” Sparrow sounded curious. 

“A dumb flood scared one of the apprentices.” 

Tallpaw flinched. One of the apprentices? Is that 
all I am to you now? 

“Why did you build a tunnel there?” Sparrow 
pressed. 

“To give us a secret route to the river.” 

“Hush!” Larksplash snapped. “We’re sitting vigil!” 

The grass behind Tallpaw swished as Sandgorse 
joined his Clanmates. Tallpaw let his head drop against 
his mother’s shoulder. Even if she didn’t seem to know 
he was there, he could take warmth from her pelt. 
Tiredness crept over him as he leaned deeper into her 
fur. Letting go of his misery, he drifted into sleep. 


The movement of Brackenwing’s body woke him. 
Tallpaw jerked up his head and blinked. The sky was 
pale, the beginnings of dawn showing over the heather 
wall. The elders were dragging their Clanmate away. 

Palebird shifted beside him. “Can I help with the 
burial?” She clambered to her paws. 

“Yes, you can,” puffed Flamepelt, who was 


crouched down as Whiteberry and Lilywhisker hauled 
Brackenwing onto his back. 

Tallpaw felt cold air where Palebird had been. He 
stood up, his wounds stinging, his legs stiff from the 
damp grass. Redclaw and Cloudrunner shooed him 
backward to make way for the elders as they carried 
Brackenwing out of the camp. 

Heatherstar dipped her head as they passed. “May 
StarClan cherish her as we did,” she murmured. 

The rogues kept back by the wall to the camp, 
looking mournful and somber. Only Sparrow’s gaze 
glittered with something like curiosity as he watched 
the elders leave. 

“Go and rest in your den.” Tallpaw heard 
Dawnstripe’s whisper and turned around. His mentor 
was gazing at him gently. “You must be tired,” she 
murmured. 

“Actually, I slept all night.” Tallpaw shifted his paws 
guiltily. Was he supposed to stay awake? 

“Then lets train.” Dawnstripe whisked her tail. 
“The vigil is over. We might as well carry on as 
normal.” She headed for the entrance and Tallpaw 
followed, relieved that Dawnstripe hadn’t tried to ask 


how he was feeling. Her briskness was as refreshing 
as the wind. 

They passed Sparrow and Sandgorse. The toms 
were talking with their heads close together, and 
Sandgorse’s eyes flashed with excitement. Tallpaw 
pricked his ears. 

“You say Heatherstar’s forbidden you from going 
down there?” Sparrow asked. 

“Yes,” Sandgorse whispered. 

Tallpaw halted and sat down, pretending to search 
for a flea in his tail. Why was Sparrow so interested in 
the gorge tunnel? 

“What a waste,” murmured the rogue. 

Sandgorse nodded. “All that paw-work for nothing.” 

“You sound proud of the tunnel.” 

“I know it better than I know my own pelt,” 
Sandgorse declared. 

“Then surely you can go down there?” Sparrow 
reasoned. “You know which parts are safe and which 
might be dangerous.” 

“Of course I do!” Sandgorse snorted. “I built every 
step of it with my own paws.” 

Tallpaw straightened up. What was Sandgorse 


thinking? Were his tunnels the only thing he cared 
about? Sandgorse thought he was special just because 
he could dig! Rabbits dig! They’re not special. Pelt 
pricking, Tallpaw ducked out of camp and raced after 
Dawnstripe. His thoughts whirled. Perhaps 
Heatherstar was right. The Clans needed warriors 
who could fight, not tunnels. 

As they reached the training ground, the sun lifted 
over the forest and spilled light across the grass. 
Tallpaw was relieved to feel warmth washing his fur. 
“Dawnstripe?” he asked as she halted at the head of 
the grass clearing. 

“What?” She looked around. 

“Do we really need tunnelers?” 

Dawnstripe hesitated. “It’s part of our tradition,” she 
told him at last. “There’s a lot of skill and courage 
involved. Skills that only WindClan possesses.” 

“So it makes us special?” Tallpaw pressed. 

“Yes.” 

“But what use is it?” Tallpaw meowed bluntly. 
“What’s the point of digging underground when battles 
are fought up here?” He gestured to the endless moor 
with his tail. 


Dawnstripe’s ear twitched. “Let Heatherstar worry 
about whether WindClan needs tunnelers or not. We’re 
here to train.” Tallpaw felt a prick of frustration. She 
hadn’t answered his question. “Just one lap!” 
Dawnstripe flicked her tail and Tallpaw hared away 
across the grass. “You'll be stiff after the battle, so 
take it easy,” she called after him. 

She was right. Tallpaw tensed as pain flashed 
through him. But he wasn’t going to take it easy. When 
he was running he couldn’t think about anything else, 
and that felt good. He charged along the grass, 
brushing close to the heather, making as wide a circuit 
as he could. As he rounded the far end, he saw a 
creamy brown pelt slide out from the heather to stand 
beside Dawnstripe. Algernon. Tallpaw sped up, 
wondering why Algernon had come to the training 
area. 

“Is everything okay in the camp?” He skidded to a 
halt a tail-length from Dawnstripe and Algernon. 

“Of course. I just came to see what you were 
doing,” Algernon rumbled. “I hope you don’t mind.” 

Tallpaw shrugged. “Of course not.” He peered past 
the rogue. Was Reena coming, too? “Where are the 


others?” 

“Reena and Bess joined the hunting patrol,” 
Algernon told him. “Mole wanted to hunt alone.” 

“What about Sparrow?” 

“He went off with Sandgorse,” Algernon meowed. 
“They were talking about some tunnel that leads down 
to the river.” 

Poor Sparrow. Tallpaw felt a flash of sympathy. 
Once Sandgorse got him down a tunnel, he’d talk his 
ears off about tunnel skills and all the rules about not 
leaving your tunnelmate and how to hear rabbits on the 
far side of the moor. He looked at Dawnstripe. “Can 
we practice battle moves today? In case ShadowClan 
attacks again.” 

“Yes,” Dawnstripe meowed grimly. “I just hope you 
won’t need them.” 


By the end of the session, Tallpaw felt much better. 
He was going to be the best moor runner WindClan 
had ever seen! While Sandgorse was grubbing around 
in muddy holes, he would be defending his Clan. P'U 
avenge Brackenwing’s death. He curled his claws 
and imagined throwing the body of a ShadowClan 


warrior in front of his Clan. They’d have to forgive him 
then. 

“Can we hunt?” he growled. He wanted to feel 
flesh beneath his claws. “The prey heap is empty.” 

Dawnstripe was deep in conversation with 
Algernon. He’d watched the practice session and now 
he leaned back on the grass, basking in the sun. 
“You’ve lived with Twolegs?” Dawnstripe leaned 
closer to the rogue. “What was it like?” 

“Twolegs are funny creatures,” Algernon told her. 

“Dawnstripe!” Tallpaw interrupted. “Can we hunt?” 

“You go.” Dawnstripe flicked her tail. “We’ll catch 
up.” Tallpaw shrugged and headed downslope. “No 
one’s hunted the burrows by the gorge in a while!” 
Dawnstripe called after him. “There should be plenty 
of prey there.” 

“Okay!” Tallpaw called over his shoulder as he 
pushed through the heather. “PI see you there.” He 
followed a stale rabbit track and emerged from the 
heather at the top of a rise. The land sloped away past 
a swath of gorse before flattening out to meet the edge 
of the gorge. Tallpaw could just make out the dimples 
where rabbit burrows had been dug close to the 


surface. Tallpaw pounded toward them. The ground 
thrummed beneath his paws, solid, then hollow, then 
solid again. 

Tunnels. Tallpaw snorted. Stupid tunnels. 

He pulled up as he neared the gorge, stepping lightly 
so he didn’t frighten any rabbits that might be grazing 
near the burrows. He must be on top of the gorge 
tunnel by now. Was Sandgorse down there, boring the 
ears off poor Sparrow? He paused, feeling the ground 
tremble beneath his paws. Were they digging? He 
crouched and pressed his belly to the grass, feeling for 
the tremors. 

The fur rose on his spine. He could feel rumbling 
deep in the earth. It stirred memories of the flood. Was 
a tunnel collapsing? 

Fear flaring, Tallpaw raced for the burrows. He 
might be able to hear what was happening through one 
of the openings. Surely Sandgorse wouldn’t take 
Sparrow anywhere dangerous? He was too 
experienced to lead an untrained cat into an unstable 
tunnel. Tallpaw slowed to a halt, jerking around, 
glancing from burrow to burrow. Poking his head into 
one, he heard the earth roar. He stiffened as the 


ground shook beneath his paws. Terror uncoiled in his 
belly. 

Then claws scrabbled behind him. Tallpaw whirled 
around as a mud-drenched cat burst out from a rabbit 
hole. “Sparrow!” He recognized the rogue’s eyes 
through his filthy pelt. Tallpaw glanced past him, 
expecting Sandgorse to race out behind. But he only 
heard the growl of earth folding in on itself, crushing 
air and light and everything else inside. . . . 

“Where’s Sandgorse?” Tallpaw stared at Sparrow. 
“Wasn’t he with you?” 

Sparrow glanced back down the hole, flanks 
heaving. “T lost him.” 

“You lost him?” Tallpaw blinked. “You left him 
behind?” 

“Too much water,” Sparrow panted. “And mud.” 

“You can’t leave a cat underground!” 

There was a flash of movement on the horizon. 
Dawnstripe and Algernon were heading toward them. 

“Sparrow!” Algernon’s pelt spiked. “You’re soaked! 
Are you okay?” 

“I have to find my father!” Tallpaw barged past 
Sparrow and plunged down the hole. Darkness 


engulfed him. The sour smell of river water and soil 
flooded his nose. He raced forward, flattening his ears 
against the roaring earth. Hurtling along the tunnel, he 
crashed against one wall, then another, running blindly, 
panic sending his thoughts whirling. 

“Sandgorse!”” His yowl echoed in the darkness. The 
soil around him was growing looser all the time. The 
tunnel narrowed and Tallpaw tripped over a pile of 
earth. Scrabbling over it, he found himself squeezing 
through an ever-tightening gap. “Sandgorse!” Earth 
turned to mud around him. Now he was slithering 
though the tunnel like a snake. “Where are you?” The 
rumbling was growing louder. The earth was still 
moving. “I’m coming, Sandgorse!” Tallpaw hauled 
himself forward, scrabbling with his hind legs, pushing 
desperately on. A thunderous rumble swept toward 
him and the floor of the tunnel heaved beneath his 
paws. Mud and water filled his muzzle and terror burst 
his heart as the world turned black. 





Pain jolted Tallpaw awake. He was bumping over 
stones, being dragged from behind. Rocks jabbed his 
belly and scraped his legs and chin. Someone was 
hauling him out of the tunnel. He struggled, trying to 
find his paws, but claws clasped his flanks and heaved 


him harder. Suddenly fresh air rushed around him and 
he was on soft grass. He gulped in air, fresh and 
sweet. 

“What happened?” Tallpaw coughed, spitting out 
mud. “Is this StarClan?” He tried to remember what 
he had been doing before the darkness came, but his 
thoughts were spinning too fast. It was like trying to 
catch butterflies in the wind. 

A gentle paw touched his shoulder. “It’s all right; 
you’re safe now.” Dawnstripe was crouching beside 
him. “Woollytail pulled you out.” 

“Out of where?” Tallpaw struggled to sit up. 

Dawnstripe sniffed him anxiously. “Does anything 
feel broken?” 

Tallpaw felt his pelt stinging where it had torn on 
stones, but he could move each of his legs. “I’m okay.” 

Woollytail paced in front of him, his gray-and-white 
pelt turned completely brown with smeared mud. 
“We’ll see about that.” He glanced at Tallpaw. “You 
should get your cuts and scratches seen to. 
Underground mud can be bad for you. Wounds infect 
easily.” 

“Hush.” Dawnstripe waved Woollytail away with 


her tail. “He’s already scared enough.” 

Scared? Tallpaw’s legs buckled beneath him and he 
collapsed onto his belly. Why would I be scared? 
Hazily he saw Algernon sitting a litte way off. 
Sparrow was lying on the grass beside him, his short 
fur spiked and filthy. Were we both underground? 
Tallpaw wondered. 

Mistmouse squeezed out of a rabbit hole, her pelt 
slicked with mud. Algernon caught her eye. “Any 
luck?” Mistmouse shook her head. 

Tallpaw’s thoughts cleared with a jolt. “Sandgorse!” 
That’s why he’d gone down the tunnel. “Where is 
he?” 

Woollytail stopped pacing. His eyes were ominously 
dark. He turned as Plumclaw scrambled out of a 
second burrow. “Did you get through?” Woollytail 
asked. 

Plumclaw shook her head. “We hit rock. 
Hickorynose is still trying but there’s no way to dig 
past it.” 

Tallpaw’s heart began to pound. “If he’s still down 
there, you have to get him out.” 

Plumclaw crossed the grass toward him. “We’ve 


tried, Tallpaw, but the whole tunnel network collapsed. 
Floodwater’s in every branch and the roofs are still 
caving in.” She thrust her nose close to him, blinking 
away wet soil. “Another mouse-length and you’d have 
drowned, too.” 

Tallpaw stiffened. “Sandgorse drowned?” 

Plumclaw leaned back. “We haven’t found his body, 
but there’s no way he could still be alive down there.” 

“No!” Tallpaw tried to struggle to his paws, but he 
was shaking too much. 

Woollytail glanced at Mistmouse. “There’s nothing 
more we can do.” 

“We’ve tried everything to get to him,” she meowed, 
ears flat. “He’s down there for good.” 

“Maybe Sparrow can help!” Tallpaw stared at the 
rogue. Sparrow lifted his mud-streaked head. “Where 
did you last see Sandgorse?” Tallpaw demanded. “Can 
you lead the tunnelers there?” 

“The tunnels are blocked,” Woollytail reminded him. 

“But if you know where to look, you might be able 
to dig through,” Tallpaw persisted. “Pll dig through 
myself.” 

Dawnstripe pressed him back with a paw. 


“Tallpaw,” she murmured softly. “If Woollytail can’t 
reach him, no one can. Sandgorse is with StarClan 
now.” 

Tallpaw’s hackles rose and anger surged in his 
chest. He glared at Sparrow. “Why did you leave him? 
You should have stayed with him! Don’t you know 
that’s what you do underground? You stay with your 
tunnelmate.” 

Sparrow pushed himself to his paws. “I’m no 
tunneler. I don’t have partners. Not aboveground. Not 
belowground.” His gaze hardened. “I was lucky I 
made it out. There was no way I could have helped 
Sandgorse. He’s the one with all the skills. He 
shouldn’t have taken me down there. He should have 
known it was too dangerous.” 

Tallpaw stared, breath catching in his throat. 
Sparrow was blaming Sandgorse for what happened? 
He stared at the other tunnelers, willing one of them to 
come to Sandgorse’s defense. How dare this rogue 
blame his father for the accident? 

“Woollytail?” Tallpaw croaked to the old tunneler. 

Woollytail stared at his paws. “Sandgorse answered 
for his recklessness,” he muttered. 


“Are you saying this was his fault?” Tallpaw 
gasped. 

Woollytail avoided his eye. “Come on,” he grunted. 
“Let’s get you to Hawkheart. Those wounds’ll need 
seeing to.” 

Dawnstripe shoved her nose under Tallpaw’s flank 
and heaved him to his paws. Algernon darted over and 
pressed against his shoulder. With Dawnstripe pushing 
on the other side, Tallpaw managed to stagger 
forward. As they climbed the slope, he felt strength 
beginning to seep back into his paws, though his breath 
was hard to catch. He stopped and coughed up more 
muddy water, then moved on, thankful for Algernon 
and Dawnstripe’s help. He could hear paw steps 
behind and looked back to see Woollytail helping 
Sparrow back to camp. Tallpaw growled under his 
breath. How could Woollytail help the cat that had 
killed his tunnelmate? 

He staggered wearily through the entrance. 
Aspenfall paused on a tussock and stared at the mud- 
streaked cats. “Any news?” 

Palebird hurried out of the nursery. “Did you find 
him?” 


Tallpaw stared blankly at his mother. 

“No,” Dawnstripe answered for him. 

“Sandgorse!” As Palebird collapsed, Meadowslip 
hurried to her side. 

Tallpaw closed his eyes. “He’s dead,” he whispered. 
His legs crumpled beneath him and choking mud 
seemed to swamp him once more. He could feel the 
suffocating weight of earth and water, and he imagined 
his father thrashing against the flood as it grew heavier 
and heavier until at last he was pinned without light or 
air, lungs screaming, heart bursting. 

“Tallpaw?” Hawkheart leaned over him. “Swallow 
these leaves.” 

A pungent scent wafted beneath his nose. Numbly 
he lapped up the green specks beside his mouth. 

“Bring more thyme, Barkpaw,” Hawkheart called. 
“And some of the poultice we made for the wounded 
warriors.” 

“Are you all right, Sparrow?” Bess’s anxious mew 
sounded nearby. Tallpaw opened his eyes and saw the 
black-and-white cat pacing around the brown warrior. 
Reena was sniffing at his filthy pett. 

“TPI live.” Sparrow shook out his fur, showering his 


companions with muddy water. 

Hawkheart turned his head. “All Sparrow needs is a 
good wash,” he growled. “Help him get cleaned up.” 
He nosed Tallpaw onto his side and began sniffing his 
scratches. “Great StarClan, what a mess.” 

“T had to drag him out,” Woollytail meowed. 

“He’s pretty shredded,’ Hawkheart muttered. “But 
no deep wounds.” 

Paw steps pattered closer and a wad of herbs 
landed beside Hawkheart. “Is he okay?” Tallpaw 
recognized Barkpaw’s mew. 

“He’ll be fine.” Hawkheart began to lap herbs into a 
wound on Tallpaw’s pad. Tallpaw winced at the pain 
but held still. “Go and soak moss in the spring,” 
Hawkheart told Barkpaw. “Plenty of it. I want you to 
wash as much of this mud out of Tallpaw’s fur as you 
can.” 

The medicine cat’s mew faded into buzzing, and 
darkness swallowed Tallpaw. Hawkheart poked him 
sharply. “Stay awake. You’ve had a shock. You can 
sleep later.” He began pressing the herbs more firmly 
into Tallpaw’s wounds. The pain jerked Tallpaw into 
wakefulness. 


“These will heal in no time,’ Hawkheart promised. 
“We just have to get you clean.” He nosed some more 
pungent thyme toward Tallpaw. “Keep chewing this. 
It'll help.” 

Tallpaw lapped up another tongueful of shredded 
leaves and began chewing. His thoughts started to 
clear. By the time Barkpaw returned and began 
sluicing his pelt with soaked moss, he was able to turn 
and watch. 

“T’m sorry about Sandgorse.” Barkpaw didn’t lift his 
eyes from what he was doing. 

“T’m sorry about Brackenwing,” Tallpaw meowed. 

Barkpaw didn’t reply, just kept washing Tallpaw’s 
pelt. The long, cool strokes lulled Tallpaw and eased 
his pain. 

“Do you want some food?” When Barkpaw had 
gone to rinse out the mud-filled moss, Reena 
clambered over a tussock and sat down beside 
Tallpaw. “You haven’t eaten all day.” She twitched her 
tail toward the prey heap, stacked high with fresh-kill. 

Tallpaw shook his head. “I’m not hungry, thanks.” 

“Then I could just sit with you,” Reena offered. 

Tallpaw shook his head. He didn’t want company. 


His pain was all on the inside now, too deep for anyone 
to touch. He could see Palebird outside the nursery 
staring into space, her eyes glazed. For a moment 
Tallpaw understood why she always seemed so 
distant. If she didn’t let herself feel anything, she might 
protect herself from her grief for Finchkit. Now he 
wanted to do the same. “I’d rather be alone,” he 
mumbled. 

“Are you sure?” Reena leaned close, the scent of 
rabbit on her breath. 

“T’m sure.” Tallpaw watched her pad away to the 
Hunting Stones, where Bess, Algernon, and Mole were 
tucking grass around Sparrow. 

Bess pulled up a pawful of moss from beneath one 
of the rocks and packed it beneath Sparrow’s shoulder. 
“Ts that more comfortable?” 

Sparrow wriggled. “Much better,” he purred. 

Tallpaw growled under his breath. Anger felt better 
than grief. He watched the sun sink below the heather. 
It glowed on Dawnstripe’s pelt as she padded toward 
him. A mouse dangled from her jaws. She stopped 
beside him and dropped it at his paws. “You should eat 
something,” she meowed. 


How did Dawnstripe think he could eat? Didn’t she 
know he’d just lost his father? “I told Reena: I’m not 
hungry,” Tallpaw muttered. 

“It wont always feel this bad,’ Dawnstripe 
promised. 

He glared at her. “Yes, it will!” he snapped. “PI 
never feel happy again. StarClan doesn’t want me to 
be happy. They should have taken me, not Finchkit.” 
He glared across the camp at Palebird. “Maybe 
Sandgorse wouldn’t be dead if my sister were alive.” 

Dawnstripe stiffened. “Don’t say things like that!” 

‘Tve done everything wrong,” Tallpaw snarled. “If 
Pd insisted on being a tunneling apprentice, Sandgorse 
would have been exploring the gorge tunnel with me, 
not Sparrow. J wouldn’t have left him behind.” 

“Youre upset.” Dawnstripe got to her paws. 
“You’re not thinking straight. PI come and check on 
you later, when you’ve had some rest.” She padded 
away and settled down beside Redclaw and 
Appledawn, but her gaze flashed anxiously toward 
Tallpaw as she shared tongues with her Clanmates. 

Appledawn’s voice carried on the breeze. 
“Sandgorse should never have taken Sparrow down 


those tunnels.” 

Tallpaw sat up. 

“Heatherstar said they were dangerous,” Redclaw 
agreed. 

Tallpaw bared his teeth at the tawny warrior. 
“Sparrow made him go down there!” he hissed across 
the clearing. “The nosy rogue wouldn’t stop pestering 
Sandgorse until he showed him the tunnels! And then 
he left Sandgorse down there to die!” Rage pulsed like 
lightning in his paws. 

On the other side of the clearing, Sparrow stood up. 
“T’m sorry your father is dead, Tallpaw. But he told me 
it was safe when it wasn’t. How was I supposed to 
know what would happen? I’m no tunneler. I believed 
him. When the river burst through, I didn’t have time to 
save him. I barely saved myself.” 

“Tf there was time to save yourself, there was time 
to save Sandgorse,” Tallpaw snapped. “You left him to 
die.” 

“Enough!” Heatherstar leaped to her paws and 
marched across the clearing. “The Clan has seen too 
much grief this moon. Go to your nest, Tallpaw. Words 
won’t change anything now.” 


Tallpaw met her gaze. He was trembling with fury. 

“Go,” Heatherstar repeated. 

Tallpaw glanced around at his Clanmates. They 
stared at him, frozen in shock. Prey hung from 
Cloudrunner’s mouth. Lilywhisker’s eyes were round. 
Flamepelt sat stiffly beside her. Stagleap, Ryestalk, and 
Doespring blinked at him like birds lined along a 
branch. Shrewpaw narrowed his eyes while Barkpaw 
sat like stone at the entrance to the medicine den. 

Whipping his tail, Tallpaw turned and stalked to his 
nest. He climbed in and thrust his nose under his paw. 
When sleep came, it was filled with dreams. Mud 
pressed around him, sucking at his fur; water dragged 
him through endless tunnels, and in brief flashes of light 
from somewhere above his head, Tallpaw saw 
Sandgorse, mouth open, shrieking for help, only to be 
hauled away by another surge of mud. 

“Tallpaw.” Breath touched his ear. Tallpaw jerked 
up his head. Barkpaw ducked away. “How are you?” 

Beyond him, Tallpaw could see the camp through 
the gorse opening of his den. A bright moon lit the 
tussocks. “Is it nearly dawn?” 

“Not yet.” Barkpaw reached into Tallpaw’s nest. 


Tallpaw smelled the tang of ointment. “I just want to 
put some herbs on your wounds,” Barkpaw told him. 
“Hawkheart’s worried about infection.” 

Tallpaw leaned back and let Barkpaw spread the 
thick paste of herbs onto his grazes. “I had 
nightmares,” he meowed. 

“They'll pass.” Barkpaw avoided Tallpaw’s gaze. 

“I don’t want to sleep again.” The thought of 
returning to his dreams made Tallpaw’s belly harden. 

“You need to rest.” Barkpaw sounded very far 
away. Even in this half light, Tallpaw could see 
tiredness shadowing his friend’s eyes. Barkpaw was 
still wrapped in grief for Brackenwing. 

Tallpaw understood. Loneliness jabbed his belly. If 
only they could share their grief. But Barkpaw seemed 
too far away. Did he still blame Tallpaw for 
Brackenwing’s death? 


Tallpaw blinked open his eyes in the pale light of 
dawn, surprised to find that he’d slept again after 
Barkpaw had left. He peered out from the gorse bush 
and saw Reedfeather calling patrols for the day. 

“Aspenfall, Cloudrunner, and Doespring,” the deputy 


ordered, “take Mole hunting with you. Hareflight, 
Stagleap, and Shrewpaw, check the ShadowClan and 
Fourtrees border. Dawnstripe and Redclaw, patrol the 
rest.” 

Tallpaw watched his Clanmates charge out of camp 
while Reena and Bess headed for the elders’ den. 
“We’ve come to clean out your bedding,” Bess called 
through the entrance. 

Lilywhisker padded out, yawning. “You’ll have to 
wake the others. Flamepelt’s snoring like a badger.” 

Tallpaw hauled himself to his paws, wincing as his 
scratches stung. 

“Stay in your nest.” Hawkheart’s stern growl 
surprised him. The medicine cat slid into the den. 
Tallpaw sat down as Hawkheart sniffed his wounds. 
“There’s infection in your forepaw. I can smell it,” he 
told Tallpaw. ‘TIl dress the wound again. Then stay off 
it. You’re confined to your nest until it’s healed.” 

“I can’t stay here,” Tallpaw argued. “I hate it. I just 
sleep and have nightmares.” 

“You don’t have a choice.” Hawkheart dabbed 
fresh herbs onto Tallpaw’s wounds. “You have to get 
well. There’s been too much loss. First Brackenwing, 


then your father.” 

“But—” Tallpaw began to argue but Hawkheart 
silenced him with a look. 

Tallpaw lay back in his nest as the medicine cat left. 
The low gorse roof seemed to press down on him. His 
breath quickened in the stale air. Tallpaw longed to be 
on the moor. He needed to feel the wind lifting his fur, 
filling his chest. Fear churned in his belly. He couldn’t 
stay here for days. As his mind spiraled into panic, 
Sparrow bounded past the den, crossing the tussocks 
with ease. 

Tallpaw sat up. He hardly has a scratch on him. 
He must have fled the cave-in at the first drop of 
soil! Weasel-hearted coward! 

“Sparrow!” Hickorynose called to the rogue from 
the prey heap. “Do you want some fresh-kill?” 

“Yes,” Sparrow called. “I’m starving.” 

Hickorynose tossed a mouse to the rogue’s paws 
and Sparrow crouched to eat tt. 

Tallpaw’s belly rumbled. /snt anyone going to 
offer me any prey? I’m still their Clanmate, after 
all. He sank his claws into his bedding. They dont 
care if I eat. As far as they’re concerned, I killed 


Brackenwing. Poor Sparrow’s only crime was to 
follow a foolish warrior down an unsafe tunnel. He 
hissed, curling his lip as he watched Sparrow lick his 
lips. No one blames him. They’re too dumb to see 
what’ under their whiskers. 

“But I blame you,” he growled through gritted teeth. 
“You killed my father!” 


j 
<— 





CHAPTER 19 
te 


ko 


Tallpaw was roused by the sound of paws scurrying 
across the starlt clearing. He peeked through the 
gorse opening and saw Hawkheart heading for the 
nursery. Is Meadowslip having her kits? It had been 
a quarter moon since Sandgorse had died. Her kits 


were well overdue. 

Palebird’s face appeared at the nursery entrance, 
eyes round with worry. “They’re coming,” she 
whispered to Hawkheart. The medicine cat shooed her 
back and slid into the den. 

Tallpaw rested his muzzle on the soft wool lining of 
his nest. Being stuck in camp since the accident had 
made him feel tired, not rested. He didn’t think about 
running anymore, or the feeling of wind in his fur. 
Every time he imagined practicing battle moves with 
Dawnstripe again, or running across the moor, guilt 
tightened his throat. Sandgorse would be watching 
from StarClan, his eyes dark with disappointment. You 
were born to be a tunneler. His father’s words rang 
in Tallpaw’s head. You cant change that, whatever 
any other cat tells you. 

He must have dozed because it was light when the 
chatter of his Clanmates woke him. They were 
clustering outside the nursery. Lilywhisker and 
Whiteberry had pushed their way to the front. 
Larksplash and Appledawn circled Palebird beside the 
Meeting Hollow. They were showering her with 
questions. 


“Ts Meadowslip okay?” 

“How many kits are there?” 

“What did Hickorynose say when he saw them?” 

For once, Palebird’s eyes were bright. Tallpaw 
climbed out of his nest, pricking his ears as she 
answered the warriors’ questions. “Three kits,’ she 
announced. “Hickorynose is delighted. He’s named the 
tom Hopkit. One of his paws is a little crooked, but 
he’ll be fine. There’s another tom—Pigeonkit. He’s 
dark gray and white, and there’s a she-kit, Sorrelkit. 
She’s gray and brown.” Palebird sat back, ears 
twitching with delight. “They are beautiful! Hungry the 
moment they arrived.” 

Heatherstar purred. “WindClan will have more 
warriors.” 

Plumclaw eyed her sharply. ‘Lets hope 
Hickorynose insists they become tunnelers.” 

“Lets hope they grow up healthy and strong,” 
Heatherstar meowed. 

Bess nosed in among the Clan cats. Reena’s ginger 
fur flashed beside her. They seemed as excited as the 
warriors. Sparrow watched from a tussock, staring at 
the nursery with an unreadable expression while 


Hareflight and Redclaw paced excitedly beside him. 

“This is the first good thing to happen to WindClan in 
moons,” Hareflight enthused. 

“The rogues have brought luck to the Clan,” 
Redclaw gushed. 

Luck? Tallpaw bristled. He imagined the pleasure 
he’d get from sinking his claws deep into Sparrow’s 
short, brown fur. 

“Tallpaw!”? Reena slid from the crowd and hurried 
over to him. “Isn’t it great? Kits in the camp! I can’t 
wait to see them!” 

“What do you care?” Tallpaw sniffed. “They’re 
Clan kits, not rogues.” 

Reena stopped in front of him, eyes flashing. “Of 
course I care!” she exclaimed. “They’re WindClan 
cats.” 

“Stop acting like you’re one of us,” Tallpaw 
growled. “If you hadn’t come, Sandgorse would still be 
alive.” 

Reena gasped. “We helped you fight off 
ShadowClan!” 

Tallpaw curled his lip. “Sparrow took my father into 
a tunnel and left him to die.” 


Sparrow’s head turned. Tallpaw watched the 
rogue’s expression from the corner of his eye. He 
looked more curious than angry. Tallpaw dug his claws 
into the ground. Was Sparrow too much of a coward to 
fight for his honor? “Weasel-heart,” he hissed. 

Reena’s eyes blazed. “Don’t you dare blame 
Sparrow for Sandgorse’s death!” she spat. “Your 
father knew those tunnels were unsafe, but he took 
Sparrow down there anyway. Sparrow could have 
been killed too!” 

“But he wasn’t,” Tallpaw mewed coldly. He looked 
at Sparrow, but the rogue had turned back to 
Hareflight and Aspenfall. “Now he’s got more friends 
in WindClan than I have.” 

“You’ve turned mean, Tallpaw,” Reena spat. “That’s 
why you’ve got no friends anymore. Whenever a cat 
comes near you, you bite their head off.” 

“So?” Tallpaw hissed. “At least I don’t kill them.” 

“See what I mean?” Reena’s gaze hardened. “Why 
don’t you talk to me once you’ve finished feeling sorry 
for yourself?” She turned and stalked away, her tail 
twitching angrily. 

Paws thrummed the grass as Shrewpaw whisked 


past. “Hey, Reena!” Together they disappeared among 
the cats gathered outside the nursery. 

Tallpaw headed for the camp entrance. Let them all 
chatter like starlings. I dont care. 

“Wait for me.” Flailfoot’s mew rasped behind him. 

‘T’m just going for a walk,’ Tallpaw muttered. 
“Don’t try and stop me.” 

“I wasn’t going to.” Flailfoot fell in beside him. “Is 
this your first time out since the accident?” 

“You mean since Sandgorse was killed.” Tallpaw 
pushed through the heather. 

Flailfoot followed. “If you want to put it that way.” 

“Then, yes. It’s my first time.” Outside camp, the 
wind snatched at Tallpaw’s fur and he shivered, 
forgetting how cold it could feel. He took the rabbit 
trail that led to the grassy slopes below the moor-top. 
The blossom was beginning to fade, but as it dropped 
from the bushes it gave a far sweeter scent than 
before. Tallpaw breathed it in, opening his mouth to let 
it bathe his tongue. 

Flailfoot padded alongside him. “You must have 
missed the moor.” 

“T guess.” 


They weaved on in silence, the bushes brushing 
Tallpaw’s pelt, sprinkling his fur with purple blossoms. 
As they broke from the heather onto the grassy slope, 
Tallpaw felt the wind tug his ears. He’d also forgotten 
how it could spark excitement in his paws. Suddenly he 
wanted to run until his chest hurt. He glanced at 
Flailfoot. 

The old tom’s whiskers twitched. “Go on,” he urged. 
“Run. I can tell you’re longing to.” 

Tallpaw plunged forward, his legs stiff at first, but 
loosening as he hared across the grass. Ears flat, tail 
streaking behind, he raced as hard as he could. He 
screwed up his eyes as the wind battered his face, and 
felt the rush of air as he crested the moor-top and saw 
meadows and valleys stretch before him. Flailfoot was 
a speck far behind, his black pelt a smudge on the 
grass. Tallpaw whirled around in a broad circle and 
raced down to meet him. 

“Feeling better?” Flailfoot asked as Tallpaw slowed 
to a halt in front of him. 

“Yes.” The restlessness that had suffocated Tallpaw 
while he was stuck in the camp had disappeared. 

Flailfoot headed upslope. Tallpaw paced beside him, 


catching his breath. “The sun feels hotter out on the 
moor.” 

Flailfoot purred. “There’s no better feeling than the 
sun on your pelt.” 

Tallpaw stared at the old tunneler. “You like it?” 

Flailfoot kept walking. “Of course. The sky, the 
wind, the wide-open moor—they’re all in the blood of 
every WindClan cat. Even tunnelers.” 

“T thought tunnelers preferred being underground.” 

“We get used to working in the dark,” Flailfoot told 
him. “And the challenge of building tunnels safely 
makes it interesting. But it always feels good to come 
up to the surface.” He winked at Tallpaw. “We’re not 
worms, you know.” 

Tallpaw looked up. Gray clouds were drifting in 
from the mountains, swallowing the blue sky. “T love 
being in the open more than anything else,’ he 
confessed. “Sandgorse never understood that.” 

“I think he did’ Flailfoot murmured. “In his own 
way.” 

“No.” Tallpaw stiffened. “I disappointed him so 
much,” he mewed. “By not wanting to be a tunneler.” 

“Every tunneler dreams of passing on their skills to 


their kits. Of working side by side with their own kin.” 

“Mistmouse didn’t,” Tallpaw reminded him. “She’s 
glad that Doespring, Stagleap, and Ryestalk are moor 
runners.” 

Flailfoot stopped and looked directly at Tallpaw. 
“Sandgorse wanted you to be happy, you know.” 

“He had a strange way of showing it.” Tallpaw 
remembered the furious glare his father had given him 
after Heatherstar had announced that the gorge tunnel 
was to be shut down. 

“He didn’t know he was going to die,” Flailfoot 
rasped. “If there’d been more time, he would have 
come to accept that your dream was not his. There 
would have been time to forgive and forget.” 

Tallpaw’s throat tightened. He pictured Sandgorse 
puffing out his chest as Heatherstar gave Tallpaw his 
warrior name. He stopped walking, his paws suddenly 
as heavy as stones. 

“Sandgorse loved you, Tallpaw.” Flailfoot began to 
head downhill, back toward the camp. “Whatever your 
differences. Never forget that.” 

Tallpaw stayed where he was. Up here, there was 
nothing between him and StarClan but the sky. Js 


Flailfoot right, Sandgorse? He stared up at the 
clouds but there was no reply. Tallpaw shook himself 
and sprinted down the slope, quickly catching up with 
Flailfoot. “What was my father like?” he asked 
breathlessly. “When he was in the tunnels?” 

“Sandgorse was a great planner,” Flailfoot told him. 
“He could pick out a route overground, then dig it 
exactly the same underground, paw step for paw step. 
He knew the tunnels under this moor better than any 
other tunneler.” Flailfoot’s eyes glowed. “But he hated 
worms.” 

“Worms?” 

“Yes.” The old tunneler purred. “Every time we hit 
worm soil, he’d send his tunnelmate in first. He always 
said he’d rather be plastered whisker to tail in clay 
than get a worm under his claw.” 

Tallpaw purred, amused that his father could be so 
squeamish, but sad that he was only just hearing about 
it. Why didn t I know this before? 

They were nearing the hollow and Tallpaw could 
see the walls of camp silhouetted in the early-morning 
light. He glanced at Flailfoot. The old tunneler’s eyes 
were half-closed. He was enjoying the last moments of 


sun on his pelt before they headed into the shadows. 
Did tunnelers really love the open moor as much as 
their Clanmates? Tallpaw had never imagined that they 
enjoyed being aboveground. He’d thought that they 
tunneled because they loved the dark and the 
closeness of earth around them. 

“Tallpaw!”? Dawnstripe called to him as he nosed his 
way into camp. “Good news!” She raced across the 
tussocks to meet him. “Hawkheart says you're fit 
enough to start training again!” 

Tallpaw halted. “Really?” 

Flailfoot flicked his tail along Tallpaw’s flank. 
“Congratulations!” 

Plumclaw and Woollytail looked up from the 
bracken patch. “There you are, Flailfoot!” Plumclaw 
called. “We wondered where you’d gone.” 

“Tallpaw?” Dawnstripe leaned closer. “Did you hear 
what I said?” Tallpaw nodded. “Aren’t you happy?” 
Dawnstripe’s eyes flashed with worry. 

Tallpaw lifted his muzzle. “I want to train as a 
tunneler.” 

Woollytail jumped to his paws. “What did you just 
say?” He bounded across the clearing toward Tallpaw. 


Plumclaw trotted after her denmate. “That’s 
wonderful news!” 

Dawnstripe blinked. “But you’re going to be a moor 
runner.” 

‘Tve changed my mind.” Tallpaw spoke slowly, 
more certain that he was making the right decision 
with every word. “I want to continue what my father 
was doing. I want to learn his skills and pass them on 
to my kits when the time comes.” 

“But you’re a great moor runner,’ Dawnstripe 
argued. “And you’ve learned so much already.” 

“I know,” Tallpaw mewed. “But everything has 
changed; don’t you see?” 

Dawnstripe shifted her paws. “I suppose I’d better 
speak with Heatherstar.” 

“Thank you.” Tallpaw touched his muzzle to her 
cheek. “PI miss training with you; I really will, but this 
is something that I have to do.” His grief was floating 
away like mist. “I must honor Sandgorse’s memory 
and protect the skills he valued.” 

Dawnstripe backed away. “If you’re sure.” 

‘Tm sure.” 

She turned and headed for Heatherstar’s den. 


Woollytail stopped beside him. “Do you really mean 
this?” 

Tallpaw nodded. “Completely.” 

“Don’t do this for your father’s sake.” Woollytail 
lowered his voice. “Sandgorse would never want that. 
He was tough on you, I know. But tunnelers have to 
be tough. It doesn’t mean he didn’t understand. He 
was proud to see you fight for what you truly wanted, 
even if that wasn’t what he’d hoped for. He’d have 
been proud to see you as a moor runner, you know.” 

“Don’t talk him out of it!” Plumclaw shouldered her 
denmate aside. “Sandgorse would have been so happy! 
We need more paws.” 

Tallpaw met her eager gaze. “Tunneling is in my 
blood, Plumclaw. I just never realized it before.” 





“Ts it true?” Barkpaw lifted his head from the spring 
that bubbled just outside the camp wall “You’re 
becoming a tunneler?” 

Tallpaw padded down the slope and stopped beside 
him. “Dawnstripe’s asking Heatherstar right now.” He 


crouched at the water’s edge. Finding Barkpaw here 
had surprised him. Tallpaw had grown used to the 
medicine apprentice avoiding him whenever he could. 
They'd hardly spoken in the quarter moon since 
Sandgorse’s death. Tallpaw wasn’t sure if it was 
because they were both lost in grief, or because 
Barkpaw blamed him for Brackenwing’s death. He 
didn’t dare ask. 

Barkpaw hauled a dripping wad of moss from the 
spring. “You don’t have to do this, you know.” 

“I want to.” Tallpaw dipped his head and began 
lapping at the cool, fresh water. 

Barkpaw sat down, letting the moss drain beside 
him. “Why?” 

Tallpaw flicked his tail. “I don’t expect you to 
understand.” 

“You were doing so well with your training.” 
Barkpaw tipped his head on one side. “And you loved 
being a moor runner.” 

“PI love tunneling, too. 
dripping from his chin. 

“Even Shrewpaw was impressed by your hunting 
skil.” Barkpaw didn’t seem to be listening to anything 


33 


Talpaw sat up, water 


Tallpaw said. “Though he’d never admit it.” 

“This is something I have to do.” Tallpaw licked his 
lips. “For my father’s sake.” 

“But you’re not Sandgorse!” Barkpaw leaned 
forward. “You don’t have to live his life for him just 
because he’s dead.” 

“That’s not what I’m doing,” Tallpaw growled under 
his breath. 

Barkpaw’s gaze burned into Tallpaw’s. “You think 
you'll feel better if you follow his wishes, don’t you?” 

Tallpaw looked away first. “The Clan needs 
tunnelers more than ever. It’s my duty to follow in 
Sandgorse’s paw steps.” 

“It’s your duty to be the best warrior you can, for 
your Clan,” Barkpaw argued. “And you could have 
been the best moor runner ever.” 

“I can be the best tunneler ever.” Tallpaw turned 
and bounded up the bank. 

“This won’t bring Sandgorse back, you know 
Barkpaw called after him. 

“T know that! This is about me, not him!” Tallpaw 
marched back to camp, pelt twitching. Why cant 
Barkpaw try to understand? 


1» 


>? 


“Hey, Wormpaw!” Shrewpaw was waiting inside 
the camp entrance. “I hear you’re going to train where 
you belong, at last.” 

Tallpaw shrugged. “Relieved that you don’t have 
competition anymore, weaselpaw?” 

Reena trotted across the clearing. “Arguing again, 
Tallpaw?” 

“He started it!” Tallpaw bristled. 

Shrewpaw glanced at Reena. “Tallpaw would argue 
with his reflection in the spring,” he sniffed. “I can’t 
wait to train without him snarling at me.” 

Tallpaw unsheathed his claws. 

“Let all cats old enough to catch prey gather 
beneath Tallrock.” Heatherstar’s call made Tallpaw 
spin around. Was she going to announce his new 
mentor? Excitement rippled through his pelt. Would she 
choose Woollytail? Sandgorse would be pleased to see 
his old friend training Tallpaw. Tallpaw raced for the 
Meeting Hollow, leaping down onto the sandy earth as 
his Clanmates streamed across the clearing to join him. 
Tallpaw watched Dawnstripe sheathe and unsheathe 
her claws as she sat opposite him, her eyes round with 


worry. 


Dont be upset. Tallpaw felt a prick of guilt. Please 
understand that I have to do this. 

Heatherstar stepped to the edge of the rock. 
“Meadowslip’s kits have brought new life to WindClan. 
Let us pray that Hopkit, Sorrelkit, and Pigeonkit grow 
into strong, healthy warriors.” 

Murmurs of approval rippled though the Clan. 
Tallpaw lifted his chin. Me next. The WindClan leader 
caught his eye, her shoulders stiffening. Tallpaw 
paused. Js she angry about my change of heart? 

“WindClan,” Heatherstar began, “you have known 
for some time that I have had doubts about our 
tunneling.” 

“What is she talking about?” Plumclaw hissed. 

“Hush.” Hickorynose stared up at their leader. 

“Tallpaw has asked to train as a tunneler,” 
Heatherstar went on. “I can only admire his loyalty to 
the memory of his father. Sandgorse’s death shook us 
all. We will grieve him for many moons to come.” She 
glanced sympathetically at Palebird. “Tallpaw’s wish to 
learn the skills that led to his father’s death shows true 
courage.” 

Tallpaw padded forward expectantly. 


“However.” The sharpening of Heatherstar’s mew 
made him stop. “I have thought long and hard,” the 
WindClan leader went on. “And I’ve decided that 
there will be no more tunneling for WindClan.” 

Tallpaw blinked. What? 

“This is not a decision I take lightly, but I hope that 
many of you will support me.” 

Reedfeather, at the base of the rock, nodded 
solemnly. Aspenfall and Cloudrunner exchanged 
approving looks. 

“We do not need the tunnels,’ Heatherstar 
explained. “Prey has run aboveground for many leaf- 
bares. We have improved our hunting skills, learned to 
work in teams. Even in the harshest weather, we have 
been able to catch prey aboveground.” 

Plumclaw’s tail whipped over the sandy earth. 

Heatherstar pressed on. “WindClan’s tunneling skills 
have served us well for countless moons, but a new 
dawn is coming. Our moor-running skills are more 
important. We have enemies to fight aboveground. 
And we must fight them. We can’t hide in our tunnels 
and hope they will go away. We must train hard and 
become warriors to equal any Clan.” She lifted her 


muzzle. “It will take time and effort, but we will 
become stronger than WindClan has ever been. In 
moons to come, the other Clans will fear us.” 

“They fear us already!” Plumclaw yowled. 

“You saw Stonetooth when ShadowClan attacked.” 
Heatherstar’s gaze fixed on the dark gray tunneler. 
“He spoke as though we were vermin to be cleared 
from the moor.” 

“They think of us as rabbits!” Redclaw growled. 

Aspenfall clawed the earth. “We must prove that 
we are warriors!” 

“What about our tunneling skills?” Woollytail 
growled. 

“They won’t be forgotten,’ Heatherstar promised. 
“Our tunnelers won’t have to retrain as moor runners. 
Their duty now will be to block all the tunnels, making 
them safe for future generations of WindClan cats.” 

“Block them?” Plumclaw stared at her in 
amazement. “What about all our hard work digging 
them?” 

“I don’t want to lose another cat in those tunnels,” 
Heatherstar insisted. “And no more cats will train as 
tunnelers. Ever.” 


Rage surged through Tallpaw. How could she deny 
him his entire future? “Then Sandgorse died for 
nothing?” he hissed. 

Hickorynose padded forward and smoothed 
Tallpaw’s bristling pelt with his tail. “Not for nothing, 
Tallpaw,” he meowed gently. “His death will be the last 
death in the tunnels.” 

Tallpaw stared at him. “You sound like you want to 
stop tunneling!” 

Hickorynose glanced at the nursery. “I don’t want 
my kits to die like Sandgorse.” He dropped his gaze. 
“Or Leafshine,’ he added, remembering the tunneler 
who’d died in the same accident that had crippled 
Lilywhisker. “But PI tell them of my days in the 
tunnels and make sure that WindClan will always 
remember what we achieved.” 

Mistmouse nodded. “Stagleap, Doespring, and 
Ryestalk are happy as moor runners. Our young 
deserve to run with the wind in therr tails.” 

“Our days of hiding are over,’ Cloudrunner 
declared. 

“Hiding?” Disbelief flooded Woollytail’s gaze. 

“Cloudrunner only meant that it’s time we faced the 


world with our heads held high.” Larksplash paced 
around him. “Once every cat in WindClan has battle 
skills, we’ ll be the strongest Clan of all.” She glanced 
up at the sky. The thick bank of cloud had reached the 
sun. Rays spilled over the edge for a moment before 
the cloud swallowed them. “We live closest to 
StarClan. We will make our ancestors proud!” 

“WindClan!” Shrewpaw began to cheer. 

“WindClan!” Aspenfall joined in. 

“WindClan!” 

“WindClan!” 

Tallpaw stared in shock as his Clanmates cheered 
for the end of the tunnels. Woollytail backed away 
from them. From the rim of the hollow, the rogues 
watched, their pelts pricking in surprise. Sparrow’s 
eyes were thin, yellow slits. Tallpaw showed his teeth. 
You started this when you killed Sandgorse. You’ve 
spoiled everything. 

“Tallpaw.” Palebird’s mew startled him. He jerked 
around and met her gaze, a muzzle-length from his. 
“T’m glad you can’t become a tunneler.” 

“But it’s what Sandgorse would have wanted!” 

“He wouldn’t have wanted you to die as he did.” 


Palebird reached forward and touched her nose to his 
cheek. “And I couldn’t bear to lose another cat I 
love.” 

Tallpaw stared at his mother in confusion. He 
couldn’t remember the last time Palebird had told him 
that she loved him. He should have been ecstatic. But 
Heatherstar had snatched away his dream. And all 
around him his Clan were cheering. Had everyone 
gone mad? He scrambled out of the Meeting Hollow 
and raced out of the camp, crashing through the 
heather. No one can stop me from being what I was 
born to be! He pelted upslope to the warren where 
Woollytail had helped them catch a rabbit. Sheep were 
grazing the moor beyond. They havent blocked the 
tunnels yet! The rising wind ripped at Tallpaw’s fur. 
Rain began to spray his muzzle. It hardened as he 
climbed, lashing his pelt by the time he reached the 
warren. IIl teach myself to tunnel, like Shattered 
Ice! 

Tallpaw stopped at the first rabbit hole he reached 
and stared into the darkness. A worm of fear stirred in 
his belly, and his breath quickened as he remembered 
the suffocating closeness of the walls and the roar of 


the river chasing him. Every hair on his pelt bristled. 
Dont go down there! He pushed back the thought. / 
will be a tunneler! I'll make Sandgorse proud of 
me! He dove into the tunnel, scrabbling to push himself 
through the narrow gap. 

“Oh no, you don’t!” 

Teeth clamped around his tail and hauled him 
backward. Dawnstripe dragged him from the rabbit 
hole, her eyes blazing. “Those tunnels are out of 
bounds!” she spat. “Didn’t you hear Heatherstar?” 

“T don’t care!” Rain battered his ears. 

“You’re going to be a moor runner!” Dawnstripe 
yowled over the rising wind. “And I’m going to be your 
mentor until you get your warrior name.” 

Tallpaw glimpsed two pelts streaking toward them. 
“Is he okay?” Hareflight called through the rain. 
Shrewpaw raced past his mentor and skidded to a stop 
on the grass in front of Tallpaw. 

“Poor Tallpaw,” he snorted. “Won’t Heatherstar let 
you become a wormpaw?” He nodded toward the 
entrance. “Why not go down there anyway? You know 
you were born to live underground.” 

“Shrewpaw!” Dawnstripe glared at the apprentice. 


“Show some respect to your Clanmate.” 

Hareflight joined them. “Stop teasing him, 
Shrewpaw!” 

“This has gone beyond teasing!” Dawnstripe 
snapped. “If Shrewpaw were my apprentice, I’d claw 
his ears.” 

Shrewpaw flung a scorching look at Dawnstripe. 
“Why are you siding with a tunneler?” 

Hareflight paced around Tallpaw. “You shouldn’t 
have run out in the middle of a Clan meeting,” he 
fretted. “You worried everyone.” 

Tallpaw flattened his ears. “No one’s worried about 
me. I killed Brackenwing.” He thrust his nose toward 
Shrewpaw. “Remember?” 

A growl rumbled in Shrewpaw’s throat. 

“The visitors will think we can’t control our 
apprentices,” Hareflight went on. 

Tallpaw turned on him. “Who cares what that bunch 
of rogues thinks?” he hissed. “If they had any sense of 
honor, they’d have left after they killed Sandgorse.” 

Dawnstripe lashed her tail “No one killed 
Sandgorse!” 

“Youre hare-brained!” Shrewpaw snarled. “You’re 


an embarrassment to WindClan with your dumb 
accusations! Nobody likes you. You should be 
underground! We won’t miss you.” 

Blood roared in Tallpaw’s ears. He lunged for 
Shrewpaw. Sinking his claws deep into his shoulders, 
he rolled the apprentice onto the soaking grass. 
Shrewpaw yowled, scrabbling at Tallpaw’s belly with 
his hind claws. Tallpaw raked his denmate’s muzzle, 
sending blood spraying across the grass before jaws 
closed around his neck fur and hauled him off. As 
Dawnstripe dropped him, Tallpaw shook out his pelt. 
Hareflight was holding Shrewpaw back by the scruff. 

“Tallpaw!” Dawnstripe’s eyes were round with 
shock. “You can’t attack your Clanmate! No matter 
how he provokes you!” She pointed her muzzle toward 
the sheep. “Go and use up the rest of your anger 
collecting wool for the elders.” 

Tallpaw stomped away, his pelt spiking as rain 
lashed it. His belly churned. Shrewpaw’s words rang in 
his ears. 

Nobody likes you. We wont miss you. 





Tallpaw shivered. The wind, which was whipping the 
moor, carried the chill of coming leaf-fall. While the 
Clan moved restlessly around him, he stared across the 
valley toward Highstones. Below him, the trees in the 
fields had turned as mottled as a tortoiseshell’s pelt, 


with flashes of orange and gold among the fading 
green leaves. 

“Are you coming to say good-bye?” Dawnstripe 
called to him above the noise of the wind. 

Tallpaw looked past her to the rogues lined along the 
ridge. They were leaving at last. In the two moons 
since Sandgorse’s death, Tallpaw had hardly been able 
to bear looking at them. Watching his Clanmates treat 
them as though nothing had happened—as though 
Sandgorse were still alive—soured every mouthful of 
prey. How could his Clan be so unfeeling? 

“Come on,” Dawnstripe urged. “Heatherstar 
expects WindClan apprentices to show courtesy to our 
guests.” 

Tallpaw’s tail twitched. “All right, I’m coming.” He 
followed Dawnstripe across the grass, passing 
Appledawn and Hickorynose. They had already said 
their farewells. Meadowslip had stayed in camp with 
her kits. 

The elders were touching noses with the rogues. 
Lilywhisker leaned forward and pressed her muzzle to 
Bess’s. “Take care,” she rasped. “I hope leaf-bare 
treats you well.” 


“Good-bye, Sparrow.” Flamepelt dipped his head. 
“Good hunting.” 

Mole lifted his tail. “Thanks for sharing your den.” 

Lilywhisker’s eyes misted. “We’ll miss your 
stories.” 

Shrewpaw slid past Tallpaw and stopped in front of 
Reena. “You were a great denmate.” 

Reena’s eyes glowed. “So you didn’t mind sharing 
with a rogue after all?” 

Shrewpaw dropped his gaze. “Sorry if I was a bit 
unfriendly at the start.” 

Reena winked. “You’re forgiven.” 

Fur ruffling self-consciously, Shrewpaw hurried 
back to Hareflight’s side. 

Heatherstar padded forward with Reedfeather 
beside her. “WindClan wishes you well.” She looked 
expectantly at Tallpaw. He was the only cat who 
hadn’t exchanged words with the rogues. 

“I hope you find somewhere to stay,’ Tallpaw 
meowed stiffly. And that you never come back. 

Heatherstar seemed satisfied. She turned to 
Sparrow. “The WindClan that you’ve known for 
countless moons is on the edge of great change.” She 


glanced at Hickorynose and Woollytail standing side by 
side with Mistmouse and Plumclaw. “If you come 
again, you’ll find a Clan no longer divided into moor 
runners and tunnelers, but united as warriors, as strong 
as any Clan.” 

Tallpaw pricked his ears. If you come again? 
Heatherstar had said if. Perhaps there wasn’t room 
for visiting rogues anymore. Tallpaw waited for 
Sparrow’s answer. Was he going to mention 
Sandgorse? Surely the rogue would acknowledge the 
cat who'd died so that he could look at WindClan’s 
tunnels? 

Sparrow dipped his head. “I wish you all well.” 

Was that it? Tallpaw stared at him in disbelief. It 
was as though Sandgorse had never existed at all. 

Algernon stepped forward, purring. “Thanks for 
your kindness.” 

Bess whisked her tail. “Let’s hope cold-season is 
kind to us al.” She turned and began to head 
downslope. Sparrow followed, Mole and Algernon at 
his heels. Reena bounded after her mother and fell in 
beside her. 

Lilywhisker sighed. “Sparrow was a great hunter.” 


She eyed Tallpaw and Shrewpaw pointedly. “He 
always made sure the elders and queens had 
something to eat.” 

“We won’t let you go hungry,” Tallpaw growled. He 
watched the rogues move over the grass below. Who 
knew where they were heading? They were already 
fading to specks as they neared the Thunderpath. 

The wind pulled at Tallpaw as though it wanted to 
whisk him after them. He dug his claws into the grass. 
This is my home. He focused on the rogues again. 
Sparrow’s fur was a dark smudge against the grass. 
Rage surged in Tallpaw’s belly. How can you just 
leave? Sparrow would carry on with his life, 
unremorseful and unpunished while Tallpaw was left 
alone. Tallpaw fought to stop his pelt from bristling. 
Because of you, Heatherstar closed the tunnels. 1 
can never follow in my father's paw steps or live 
the life he wanted me to live. You killed him; then 
you destroyed his dream and mine. 

“Tallpaw?” Doespring’s gentle mew jerked him 
back. 

“What?” He shook out his pelt, suddenly realizing 
the grass at his feet was shredded. He sheathed his 


claws quickly. 

“We’re leaving.” Doespring tipped her head toward 
their Clanmates. They were moving steadily across the 
moor like birds crossing the sky. Heatherstar headed 
the flock, Reedfeather at her side. Woollytail kept 
close to Palebird, their pelts brushing from time to time 
as they padded over the grass. Tallpaw narrowed his 
eyes. His father’s old tunnel-mate never seemed to 
leave Palebird alone now. He’d have to make sure that 
his mother didn’t mind. 

“Come on!” Doespring bounded away. 

Tallpaw plunged after her, his paws thrumming the 
earth. He slowed as he neared his Clanmates, not quite 
catching up while Doespring weaved among them and 
fell in beside Stagleap and Ryestalk. 

He’d be a warrior soon, then a senior warrior like 
Hareflight. One day he’d be an elder, limping like 
Whiteberry and sharing stories from moons ago with 
his denmates. Above the vast sky stretched toward 
distant horizon. The Clan looked small and fragile 
beneath it. Was this it? His life laid out before him like 
an old story, told again and again through countless 
moons? 


Tallpaw’s chest tightened. Suddenly he felt trapped, 
as though he were in the tunnels once again. 

“Tallpaw!” Dawnstripe called from ahead. “Let’s 
hunt!” She veered away from her Clanmates, doubling 
back upslope. ‘T Il race you to Outlook Rock!” 

Tallpaw hared after her, running faster than the 
wind, desperate to escape the anxiety that beat inside 
him on frantic wings. 


Tallpaw plunged through the gap in the heather and 
skidded to a halt in the clearing. Flanks heaving, he 
glanced over his shoulder as Shrewpaw burst through 
after him. Tallpaw flicked his tail. J beat you. 

“I stumbled on a rabbit hole,” Shrewpaw panted. 

“Shame.” Tallpaw headed for the prey heap. He’d 
been training all day and his belly was growling. 

Lilywhisker and Flailfoot lay outside the elders’ den, 
basking in the dying sun. With leaf-fall coming, its 
warmth was fading. Lilywhisker sighed wistfully. “T 
wonder where Bess and Algernon are now?” 

“The den’s too quiet without Mole’s snoring,” 
Flailfoot commented. 

“I hope they’ve found a warm place to shelter,” 


Lilywhisker fretted. 

The rogues had been gone for days, but the Clan 
kept chattering like birds, worrying where they were 
and how they’d find enough prey now that the weather 
was turning. 

“I miss Reena,’ Shrewpaw declared, stopping 
beside Lilywhisker. 

Lilywhisker looked up at the apprentice. “She’d 
make a good warrior with the right training.” 

Shrewpaw gazed at the moor that loomed up beyond 
the heather walls. “But she’d never give up traveling.” 

Frowning, Tallpaw hopped over the tussocks. Reena 
would never give up eating other cats’ prey, or sleeping 
in nests that other paws had woven. That would be too 
much like hard work. He dragged a rabbit from the 
prey heap and carried it to a soft tussock beside the 
bracken patch. He liked to eat here. Sandgorse’s nest 
still carried his scent—stale now, but familiar. 

As he took a mouthful, he saw Dawnstripe and 
Hareflight pad into camp. They nodded to each other 
as they parted at the entrance. 

“Tallpaw.” Dawnstripe headed toward him. “Your 
battle moves were lazy today. What’s up?” 


Tallpaw stared at her, his mouth full. “Nothing.” 

“Really?” Dawnstripe narrowed her eyes. “You 
seemed to be thinking about something else. You have 
been for days. With your assessment coming up, you 
really should be concentrating on your warrior skills.” 

Tallpaw swallowed. “I'll try harder,’ he promised. 
What did it matter? His Clan would go on with or 
without him, just as it had done with Sandgorse. 

A thought flashed in his mind. We’re just visitors, 
like the rogues. We arrive, we eat, we sleep, and 
then we move on to StarClan. The only difference 
was that Clan cats stayed in one place their whole life. 
I'll only ever see heather and grass and sky. 
Tallpaw felt WindClan’s borders pressing closer. 

“Well?” 

Tallpaw suddenly realized that Dawnstripe was 
staring expectantly at him. He’d been so lost in thought 
that he’d missed something. “What?” 

“The Moonstone,’ she meowed, exasperated. 
“Aren’t you excited?” 

Tallpaw pricked his ears. “Are we going?” 

“I just told you!” Dawnstripe’s tail twitched. “We’re 
going tonight. Finish your meal quickly and go to 


Hawkheart to get traveling herbs.” 

Tallpaw nodded, feeling hope spark deep inside him. 
He was going to see something new after all! 

In the medicine den, his belly full, he peered around 
the scooped-out cave. The screen of gorse on the open 
side made it very dark, and the jumbled scent of herbs 
made Tallpaw’s nose wrinkle. How could Barkpaw 
smell anything after living in here? 

“They’re beside the grinding stone.” 

Hawkheart’s mew made him jump. He hadn’t 
spotted the medicine cat standing in the shadows. 
Hawkheart padded across the sandy floor, tipping his 
nose toward leaves heaped beside a smooth, wide 
stone at the side of the gorse cave. There were two 
piles. 

“Do I eat them both?” Tallpaw asked. 

“You can if you want,” Hawkheart grunted. “But I 
wouldn’t if I were you. They taste foul and Shrewpaw 
might be annoyed that you’d eaten his.” 

Tallpaw’s heart sank as Shrewpaw slid into the den, 
his dark brown pelt hardly visible in the gloom. He 
spotted Tallpaw and rolled his eyes. “Oh no, you’re not 
coming to the Moonstone, are you?” 


Tallpaw stepped closer, fluffing out his fur. “So what 
if I am?” he growled. 

Hawkheart pushed between them. “One day you’re 
going to need to start behaving like Clanmates,” he 
snorted. 

Tallpaw scowled. It wasn’t his fault that Shrewpaw 
was So mean. 

Hawkheart pawed a pile of herbs toward him, and 
pushed the other heap under Shrewpaw’s nose. “Eat,” 
he muttered, and padded from the den. 

Shrewpaw screwed up his eyes as he sniffed the 
leaves. “They smell foul.” 

Tallpaw dabbed his tongue into the herbs. The bitter 
flavor made him wince, but he wasn’t going to let 
Shrewpaw see him make a fuss. He lapped them up 
and swallowed them quickly, trying not to let his disgust 
show. “Easy,” he mewed, and headed out of the den. 

Barkpaw met him outside. “Did you swallow 
them?” His eyes were round. 

Tallpaw wrinkled his nose and nodded. 

“Once the taste has gone you'll be thankful for 
them,” Barkpaw promised. “It’s a long journey and 
they’ Il give you energy.” 


Dawnstripe and Hareflight were pacing by the 
entrance. 

‘Td better go,” Tallpaw mewed. 

“Try to remember everything,’ Barkpaw warned. 
“Tt will feel like a dream, but I promise, it’s all real.” 

“PI try.” Tallpaw bounded over the tussocks and 
stopped beside Dawnstripe. “How long will it take to 
travel there?” 

Dawnstripe glanced at the sun dipping toward the 
horizon. “We have to reach Mothermouth by 
moonhigh.” She glanced toward the medicine den, 
nodding as she saw Shrewpaw heading out. “Ready?” 

Tallpaw nodded. As the bitterness of the herbs 
faded, he felt excitement spark in his belly. He was 
leaving Clan territory. He was going to share tongues 
with StarClan! 

Outside the camp, Dawnstripe stopped. “The most 
dangerous part of the journey will be the 
Thunderpath,” she warned. “Do as you’re told.” She 
caught Shrewpaw’s eye as he emerged from the 
entrance tunnel. “And no bickering. I expect you to 
behave like warriors tonight.” Without waiting for an 
answer, she pushed through the heather and led the 


way upslope. 

On the high-moor, a cold wind sliced through 
Tallpaw’s pelt. He shivered as he watched the sun 
slide down the sky far enough to touch Highstones, 
setting their peaks ablaze. 

“Come on.” Hareflight pointed with his tail to the 
moon, already showing in the pale evening sky. With 
full moon only a few sunrises away, it was almost 
round and dazzlingly clear. Once the sun had set it 
would be brilliant in the night-dark sky. “We have to 
hurry.” The brown warrior charged over the crest of 
the moor and bounded down the steep slope toward 
the Thunderpath. 

Tallpaw chased after him, his paws skimming the 
grass. As he broke through the scent line at the bottom 
of the slope, a thrill surged beneath his pelt. He was 
outside Clan territory! He scrambled to a halt before 
he crashed into the others. Dawnstripe had stopped 
while Hareflight and Shrewpaw padded warily toward 
the trail of black stone cutting across their path. 

A monster hurtled past, then another, both bellowing 
loud enough to rattle Tallpaw’s ear fur. Two more 
crossed behind them, traveling the other way. Suddenly 


the eyes of one lit up, throwing beams along its path. 

“They’d be no use at night hunting,’ Tallpaw 
growled as another monster sent yellow rays shooting 
from its eyes. “Prey would see them coming a whole 
territory away.” Creeping after Hareflight, he 
narrowed his eyes against the blinding lights. The acrid 
scent of the Thunderpath burned his throat and his ears 
ached from the monsters’ roars. 

Dawnstripe caught up to him. “We have to wait for 
a gap.” She nodded toward a narrow, grass-filled ditch 
running alongside the Thunderpath. Hareflight and 
Shrewpaw were already scrambling into it. Dawnstripe 
followed. Tallpaw jumped down beside her, flinching as 
a monster sent grit showering over his pelt. He pressed 
his belly to the ground and shuddered as filthy water 
soaked his fur and monster stench rolled over him. 

Eyes stinging, he stared at Dawnstripe. “Now 
what?” 

‘TI tell you when to run,” she promised. 

Shrewpaw stretched up the far side of the ditch and 
peered over the edge. “Can I go yet?” He glanced 
back at Hareflight. 

“Not till I say.” Hareflight reared up beside him to 


look out. 

“But there’s a gap before the next monster!” 
Shrewpaw insisted. “I can make it.” 

“Look both ways—” 

Before Hareflight could finish his warning, 
Shrewpaw leaped up onto the Thunderpath and began 
to race across. 

“Not yet!” With a yowl of horror, Hareflight pelted 
after him. 

Tallpaw’s pelt bristled. On the far side of the path, a 
monster was hurtling toward the young tom. 
Shrewpaw stopped and stared as its eye beams lit him 
up like a blaze of fire. Eyes stretching in terror, he 
gaped at the monster. Brown fur blurred as Hareflight 
hurled himself at Shrewpaw. They tumbled away 
together as the monster raced past, wailing. 

“Did they make it?” Tallpaw whispered. 

Dawnstripe was peering over the edge of the path. 
Her whole body was stiff, her pelt spiked up along her 
spine. 

“Did they make it?” Tallpaw demanded. He 
scrambled up to look for himself. 

Ears showed in the grass on the far side of the 


Thunderpath. Two pairs of eyes flashed. Hareflight 
and Shrewpaw were staring back at them across the 
stone. 

“They made it,’ Dawnstripe breathed, slumping 
down with relief. 

Tallpaw’s heart pounded. “It’s our turn.” He 
swallowed hard. 

“Don’t go till I say,” warned Dawnstripe. 

Tallpaw didn’t intend to. Standing on Outlook Rock, 
he’d seen birds peeling fresh-kill from the 
Thunderpath. He wasn’t going to be crow-food before 
he’d seen the world beyond Clan territory. 

Dawnstripe’s head twitched as she watched the 
monsters flash past. Then she grew still, her gaze fixed 
farther down the path. She checked the other way. 
“Ready?” she hissed. 

Tallpaw tensed. “Ready.” 

A monster sped past one way, then the other. 

“Now!” Dawnstripe leaped from the ditch. Tallpaw 
scrambled after her. “Just run!” Dawnstripe yowled, 
pelting across the hard, black path. 

Tallpaw’s pads stung as he pushed against the stone. 
It was sharp with grit and grazed his paws, but he kept 


running, his gaze fixed on the verge ahead. He dived 
onto the grass, blood roaring in his ears, and skidded to 
a halt. “Dawnstripe?” 

He glanced back, relieved to see her panting, a 
muzzle-length behind. Hareflight padded up to meet 
her. ‘TIl never get used to it,” he growled. 

“Iri be quieter on the way back,” Dawnstripe 
panted. “The monsters sleep at night.” 

Tallpaw tasted the air. The strange scents reminded 
him of Bess and Reena and how they’d smelled when 
they first arrived—tlike stale food and smoke. But he 
could also smell prey. He ducked beneath a long row 
of bushes and pricked his ears, listening for the 
scurrying of tiny claws. 

“Tallpaw!” Dawnstripe poked her head in beside 
him. “Not this way.” 

Disappointed, he trotted after her as she led the way 
along the line of bushes, turning as the path led them 
upslope. They trekked through meadows of long, wet 
grass that soaked Tallpaw’s belly fur and chilled his 
paws until they were numb. The land sloped up, then 
down, until Tallpaw’s legs ached with walking. 

The stars were shining in a peat-black sky by the 


time the lush fields gave way to stubby grass. The land 
steepened and the grass turned to stones beneath their 
paws. Hareflight shook out his fur. Dawnstripe paused 
and gazed across the rocky soil. Tatty heather dotted 
the slope, clinging to the stony ground with spindly 
roots. 

Tallpaw looked up. Highstones rose above them, so 
tall they blocked the mountains behind. Moonlight 
washed the rocks like water. He could hear Shrewpaw 
panting and glanced over his shoulder. The young 
tom’s eyes were clouded with exhaustion, his shoulders 
drooping. For a moment, Tallpaw felt a flash of 
sympathy for his denmate. “We’re nearly there,” he 
mewed. 

Dawnstripe lifted her golden muzzle and stared up 
the slope. Higher up the slope, a hole yawned, square 
and black. “Mothermouth,” Dawnstripe whispered. 

Tallpaw scrambled toward the hole, forgetting his 
tiredness as excitement pulsed in his paws. Stones 
cracked behind him as Hareflight, Dawnstripe, and 
Shrewpaw followed. Tallpaw looked over his shoulder 
at the valley that stretched back toward the moor. 
They'd come so far! WindClan territory seemed 


suddenly small, dwarfed by the wide, star-specked sky. 

Are you there, Sandgorse? Tallpaw tipped back his 
head and stared into the sky, searching Silverpelt for a 
star that outshone the rest. Can you see me? 

“Come on, Tallpaw.” Dawnstripe’s hushed mew 
sounded above him. She’d climbed past him onto a 
smooth ledge, her moonlit fur bright against the gaping 
hole behind. She was sitting on the threshold of 
Mothermouth. Hareflight and Shrewpaw sprang up 
beside her. Nose twitching, Tallpaw scrambled up the 
last tail-length. 

The ledge was smooth and icy cold beneath his 
paws. Wet stone scent rolled from the freezing 
darkness. So this is Mothermouth! Tallpaw padded 
from moonlight into shadow, his heart pounding as the 
greatest tunnel of all swallowed him whole. 





“Let me lead.” Dawnstripes mew was barely a 
whisper as she padded past him through the darkness. 
Tallpaw was happy to fall in behind her, staying 
close enough to feel her tail-tip brush his cheek. He 
could feel Shrewpaw’s breath warm on his rump, and 


Hareflight’s solid paw steps sounded reassuringly from 
the rear. Tallpaw’s heart fluttered like a caught 
sparrow. This tunnel was far bigger than the tunnel 
he’d walked with Sandgorse, but it was still a tunnel, 
still a long way from light and space and air. Tallpaw 
felt the immense darkness pressing around him. His 
throat tightened until the air seemed too thick to 
breathe. 

You’re following in the paw steps of countless 
cats. StarClan will keep you safe. 

Dawnstripe’s tail slid ahead; Tallpaw sped up, 
frightened of losing the feel of its soft tip on his nose. 
Cold air swirled around him, piercing his pelt. He 
sensed the huge weight of rock hanging above his 
head. Ahead, the distant echo of dripping water hinted 
at deepness he was frightened to imagine. How long 
till they reached the Moonstone? Steadying his breath, 
he focused on his paws, trying to relish the solidity of 
the stone beneath them, constantly stretching his 
muzzle to keep contact with Dawnstripe’s tail. 

“I smell fear-scent. Aren’t you feeling at home, 
Wormpaw?” Shrewpaw snarked. 

“Be quiet, Shrewpaw!” Hareflight’s angry hiss 


sounded from behind. 

Tallpaw’s mind swirled. He fought back panic. 
Every paw step was taking him farther from the light. 
Could he find his way out if the others weren’t here? 
A stream of cold air suddenly buffeted his flank. 
Another billowed from the other side. There must be 
more tunnels branching off this one, snaking deep into 
the earth. 

Please let me out! As a terrified groan welled in his 
throat, the air around him changed. It became still, the 
vicious chill easing. Tallpaw halted as Dawnstripe’s 
paw steps fell silent. 

“We’re here,” she announced softly. “In the cavern 
of the Moonstone.” 

Shrewpaw pushed past Tallpaw, rocking him on his 
paws. “Where is it? Where’s the stone?” 

“There must be a cloud covering the moon.” 
Hareflight’s deep mew sounded close to Tallpaw’s ear. 
“Just wait.” 

Tallpaw strained to see through the darkness. His 
nose twitched as he smelled the familiar scent of 
heather. Fresh air must be flowing into the cavern from 
somewhere above them. Suddenly a beam of silver 


light sliced down through the dark. Tallpaw blinked as 
it cast a glow over a huge stone in the middle of the 
cavern. The Moonstone! 

The surface of the rock glittered like sunshine on 
water, sending light rippling across the dark walls. 
Tallpaw backed away, bristling. 

“Don’t be afraid.” Dawnstripe stepped forward and 
crouched beside the stone, the silver light drenching 
her pale golden fur. “Come and touch your nose to it. 
You too, Shrewpaw.” 

Shrewpaw was circling the stone, his tail spiking. 
“Do we have to touch it?” 

Hareflight stooped beside Dawnstripe. “You won’t 
share with StarClan until you do.” 

Shrewpaw padded warily toward the Moonstone 
and, hunkering down, stretched his muzzle forward. 
Tallpaw watched his denmate’s eyes close. 
Shrewpaw’s ruffled fur smoothed out, and his whole 
body softened as if he had drifted into the best sleep 
ever. 

“Come on, Tallpaw.” Dawnstripe coaxed him 
forward. “StarClan will welcome you.” 

Tallpaw padded closer. His heart seemed to swell in 


his chest. Will I see Sandgorse? Or Brackenwing? 
Hunching beside the rock, he narrowed his eyes 
against its glare. He took a deep breath and touched 
his nose to the sharp stone. 

At once he was plunged into darkness, sucked down 
by currents too strong to resist. But somehow there 
was nothing to be frightened of, and Tallpaw let 
himself fall until his vision cleared. He felt his paws 
sink into muddy earth; rain lashed his pelt and battered 
his ears. Tallpaw peered through the storm. Was this 
StarClan? A churned field stretched away on one side, 
while a hedge pressed at his other, rattling as a cold 
wind shook tt. 

Tallpaw saw several solid-looking shapes ahead, 
ears and tails silhouetted in the rain. The rogues! He 
recognized their dripping pelts as they trudged beside 
the hedge, trying to find some shelter from the storm. 
One by one, they clambered over the snaking roots of 
a lightning-blasted tree. Tallpaw crept after them, 
ducking under the low branches as though he was 
stalking prey. He halted beside the charred tree and 
watched them disappear along the trail. 

This isnt StarClan! This is just a dumb dream! 


Frustration flared inside him. Wheres Sandgorse? 
Curling his claws into the wet earth, he screwed his 
eyes shut and tried to sleep once more. 

Darkness engulfed him and he was swirling through 
emptiness again. More shapes flashed on the edge of 
his vision: a Twolegplace, a dense forest, a chattering 
river sparkling in sunlight. Tallpaw blinked open his 
eyes, desperate to find himself in StarClan’s territory. 

The Moonstone gleamed at the end of his nose. He 
was back in the cavern. Where was StarClan? Fear 
wormed in Tallpaw’s belly. They hadn’t shared 
anything with him! He backed away from the 
Moonstone, noticing that Shrewpaw was still resting 
peacefully by the stone. 

Were the ancestors ignoring him because of 
Brackenwing? Or was StarClan angry because he 
hadn’t been able to follow in his father’s paw steps? 
Tallpaw’s heart twisted. J tried! 

Dawnstripe blinked open her eyes and stretched. 
She met Tallpaw’s gaze. “Did you dream?” 

Before he could answer, Shrewpaw jumped up. 
“Wow! I saw the star and some old cat called Dais—” 

“Hush.” Hareflight stirred beside him, his mew thick 


with sleep. “You don’t share your StarClan dreams 
with any cat.” 

Dawnstripe nodded. “You keep the secrets they 
share with you in your heart.” 

“Unless you’re a medicine cat and StarClan speaks 
to your Clan through you.” Hareflight stretched, 
arching his spine and quivering. 

Dawnstripe padded toward the cavern entrance. 
“Let’s get back to the Clan.” Shrewpaw bounded past 
her. “PI lead!” Dawnstripe called. “I don’t want you 
getting lost.” 

Hareflight and Shrewpaw fell in behind her and 
Tallpaw followed last, glancing over his shoulder at the 
Moonstone as he headed out of the cavern. The huge 
rock glittered frostily in the moonlight. A pang tugged 
at Tallpaw’s belly. StarClan, why didnt you share 
with me? Cold air washed his pelt as he stepped into 
the darkness, trailing a little behind his Clanmates. 
Numbness set into his paws, and Tallpaw had to force 
himself to keep plodding upward, following the scent 
and sound of his Clanmates as they led him out of the 
hill. 

Hareflight and Shrewpaw were already scrambling 


down the rocky slope when Tallpaw emerged into 
moonlight. 

“I thought we’d lost you,” Dawnstripe murmured. 
She waited for Tallpaw to jump down from the ledge, 
and fell in beside him. Tallpaw walked in silence. As 
they reached the meadows, he hardly felt the wet 
grass drag along his flanks. All he felt was tiredness, 
growing heavier with each paw step. 

The sky was turning pale beyond the moor-top as 
they neared the WindClan border. The Thunderpath 
was quiet and they crossed it easily, just as Dawnstripe 
had promised. 

Dawnstripe peered closely at Tallpaw as the ground 
began to slope up toward the moor. “Are you okay?” 
she prompted. 

“T’m fine.” Tallpaw padded past her without meeting 
her gaze. “Just tired.” He glanced up the slope to the 
top of the moor, then back toward Highstones. They 
seemed to catch fire as the rising sun turned them red, 
then yellow, paler and paler against the lightening sky. 
The jagged peaks loomed over the valley, piercing the 
clouds. To Tallpaw, the moor hardly seemed big 
enough to contain WindClan, hemmed by forest, 


crushed by the sky, cut off short by the river in the 
gorge. 

But this is home! Breaking into a run, he bounded 
past his Clanmates and raced down the hillside toward 
camp. The Clan was already stirring. Lilywhisker and 
Whiteberry yawned at the entrance to their den. The 
Meeting Hollow looked as crowded as a burrow full of 
rabbits as the Clan gathered around Reedfeather, 
waiting for his orders for the day’s patrols. 

“Tallpaw!”? Hopkit scrambled across the tussocks, 
stumbling each time his twisted paw buckled 
underneath him. “Did you see the Moonstone?” 

“Yes.” Tallpaw nuzzled his head. The kit’s wide, 
friendly gaze seemed to banish the darkness of 
Mothermouth. 

Sorrelkit raced after her brother, her gray-and- 
brown fur spiked with excitement. She stopped beside 
Tallpaw and began sniffing his pelt, her mouth open as 
she tasted the strange scents he’d brought back. She 
glanced over her shoulder at Pigeonkit. “He smells 
funny.” 

Pigeonkit pushed past her and inspected Tallpaw 
closely. “Your fur’s all wet.” 


“We’ve been trekking through long grass,” Tallpaw 
explained. 

“What did you see?” Sorrelkit flicked her short tail. 

“The Moonstone.” 

Sorrelkit widened her eyes. “Was it big?” 

“Bigger than Tallrock, and it shone like the stars.” 

“Did you touch it?” Hopkit leaned back, his fluffy 
ears pricked. 

“You'll have to wait till it’s your turn to visit it.” 
Tallpaw was too tired to talk. “Isn’t it time you had 
your first taste of mouse?” 

Pigeonkit puffed out his chest. “I’ve already tasted 
it!” 

“So have I!” Sorrelkit announced. 

Tallpaw spotted a bird on the prey heap. “What 
about lapwing?” he asked. 

“Meadowslip’s worried we’ll swallow the feathers,” 
Hopkit mewed. 

“What if I pluck it for you?” Tallpaw offered. 

Sorrelkit raced around him. “Will you?” she 
squeaked. 

“Come on.” He headed toward the prey heap. 

Pigeonkit and Sorrelkit streaked ahead. “Wait for 


me!” Hopkit was struggling to keep up, his crooked 
paw twisting beneath him. 

Tallpaw turned back and tucked his nose under the 
black tom’s belly. “Hang on!” he warned, flipping the 
kit onto his shoulders. Tallpaw purred as the young kit 
dug his tiny claws into his pelt, and carried him over to 
his littermates. 


Bright sunshine turned the distant trees golden. 
Tallpaw took a step forward, bringing him right to the 
edge of Outlook Rock. Under the sweep of empty, 
blue sky, he could see sheep and Twolegs, dogs and 
monsters. He could even see a hare sitting in the 
middle of a distant meadow. The air around him was 
completely still, as though the world were holding its 
breath. 

“A black-and-white dog is chasing sheep in the hill- 
meadow,” Tallpaw reported. 

Dawnstripe shifted behind him. “And?” 

“There are grouse beside the copse.” Tallpaw 
imagined padding beneath the distant trees, new scents 
bathing his tongue, the grouse within stalking distance. 
His mouth watered. “There’s a fire in a Twolegplace.” 


The scent of smoke touched his nose and he glimpsed 
a plume rising from the top of a Twoleg nest. Feathers 
flashed in the sunshine and Tallpaw’s gaze flicked 
toward a hawk as it dived out of the sky. He scanned 
the meadow where it swooped, trying to pick out its 
prey. His paws itched to be there. He could snatch the 
prey out of the bird’s path. “Hawk hunting rabbit.” 

“T’m impressed.” Dawnstripe got to her paws. “You 
haven’t missed anything.” Her pads scuffed the rock. 
“Let’s move on to your battle-skills assessment.” 

Tallpaw turned from the edge of the rock, dragging 
his gaze from the distant fields. He followed 
Dawhnstripe to the training ground, the trail so familiar 
now that he didn’t even have to think about where to 
put his paws. His thoughts were still on the hawk. 
He’d traveled across the meadow it had hunted in. 
Now he was back inside WindClan’s borders while it 
was crouching in a treetop, feasting on its catch. 
Yearning pricked beneath his pelt. What was it like to 
hunt only for yourself, to have the freedom to go 
wherever you wanted, without boundaries or codes 
pinning you down? 

“Tallpaw?” Dawnstripe’s mew jerked him back. 


“Are you ready?” 

Shrewpaw was waiting in the middle of the clearing 
with Hareflight. “How did Tallpaw do at Outlook 
Rock?” the brown warrior asked. 

“He passed the assessment easily,’ Dawnstripe 
replied. 

“Good.” Hareflight flicked his tail. “Shrewpaw 
hunted well.” 

“T’m pleased to hear it.” Dawnstripe gestured with 
her tail to send Tallpaw over to his denmate. “Time to 
test their battle skills,’ she meowed to Hareflight. “If 
they perform well enough here, they’ll have passed 
everything.” 

Tallpaw trotted across the grass. Shrewpaw eyed 
him belligerently. Tallpaw sighed, wishing his denmate 
weren’t so competitive. They could pass this 
assessment easily if they each gave the other a chance 
to show off his skills. He crouched in the grass, 
relaxing the muscles along his spine. A warrior moves 
with ease, not stiffness. Dawnstripe’s advice rang in 
his ears. No claws, no teeth unless there’ a real 
battle. Fight with your wits as well as your paws. 
Tallpaw made sure his claws were well sheathed and 


kept his gaze fixed on Shrewpaw, bracing himself for 
his denmate’s first move. “Ready when you are,” he 
mewed. 

Shrewpaw narrowed his eyes. “Why don’t you 
attack first?” 

“If you like.” Tallpaw wasn’t going to let Shrewpaw 
unsettle him. He focused on Shrewpaw’s left shoulder, 
then leaped for the right. His feint worked. Wrong- 
footed, Shrewpaw staggered sideways. 

Shrewpaw’s eyes blazed. “Cheater.” 

“Tt was a fair move.” 

Shrewpaw lunged at Tallpaw. Grasping Tallpaw’s 
shoulders, he kicked a hind paw out from under him. 
Good move. Tallpaw was impressed and let 
Shrewpaw roll him onto his side. As soon as their 
backs were to their mentors, Shrewpaw sank his claws 
into Tallpaw’s pelt. “You won’t fool me twice, 
Wormpaw.” 

Tallpaw flinched. “No claws, remember?” 

“We’re training to be warriors, not kits!” Shrewpaw 
hissed in his ear. 

Tallpaw dug his hind claws into the grass and thrust 
Shrewpaw backward. Pain ripped through him as 


Shrewpaw tugged a lump of fur from his flank. Don t 
let him put you off! Tallpaw leaped to his paws. 
Shrewpaw faced him, eyes gleaming. Tallpaw backed 
away. Let him think he scared me. He felt a twinge 
of satisfaction as he saw triumph flash in Shrewpaw’s 
gaze. Come on, Weaselpaw. 

Shrewpaw sprang. Tallpaw glanced at his denmate’s 
paws. His claws were sheathed. For now. He knew 
that Shrewpaw would be digging them in the moment 
they were out of sight of Hareflight and Dawnstripe. 
He leaped sideways. Shrewpaw twisted to counter his 
move and Tallpaw shoved his muzzle beneath 
Shrewpaw’s belly. Ducking under him, he felt 
Shrewpaw writhe on his shoulders before tumbling to 
the ground. Tallpaw dropped and rolled in the other 
direction, scrambling to his paws in time to face 
Shrewpaw as the young tom jumped up. 

“That was a coward’s move,” Shrewpaw growled, 
just loud enough for Tallpaw to hear. 

“Really?” Tallpaw spat. “It must be one you taught 
me.” 

Shrewpaw curled his lip. “I’m going to take a piece 
of your ear back to camp for that.” 


‘Pd like to see you try!” Tallpaw lunged at 
Shrewpaw, turning on his forepaws and swinging his 
hind legs around. He kicked out and sent Shrewpaw 
staggering backward. But Shrewpaw_ recovered 
quickly and lunged at him. Tallpaw swallowed back a 
yelp as claws stabbed his flank. Teeth gripped his hind 
leg and jerked it from under him. As Tallpaw hit the 
ground with a thump, Shrewpaw leaped on him. 

Pain flared white-hot along Tallpaw’s spine as 
Shrewpaw pushed his muzzle and churned his hind 
claws against his back. Couldn’t Dawnstripe see what 
was going on? Tallpaw pushed the thought away. He 
didn’t want Dawnstripe rushing to his rescue as if he 
were a kit. He twisted his head and clamped his jaws 
around Shrewpaw’s foreleg, just hard enough to get a 
grip, careful not to draw blood. 

“Don’t you know any warrior moves?” Shrewpaw 
snarled. “I fought better when I was a kit. No wonder 
you couldn’t save your father!” 

Fury roared through Tallpaw, stripping sense from 
his thoughts like wind tearing up heather. Without 
thinking, he unsheathed his claws and bit down on 
Shrewpaw’s foreleg so hard he tasted the young tom’s 


blood. Shrewpaw screeched and dragged himself free. 
Tallpaw plunged after him, grabbing him with 
outstretched claws, and hauled him back. Flinging him 
to the ground, he slammed his hind legs into 
Shrewpaw’s belly and began battering him with blows 
that sent fur flying across the grass. The heather 
swam at the edge of Tallpaw’s vision and the dark 
shape of Shrewpaw seemed to fade beneath him. In its 
place, Tallpaw saw the short, brown pelt of Sparrow. 

“You!” He dragged the rogue onto his side, dripping 
blood from his scratched muzzle into the rogue’s dark, 
expressionless face. “You deserve to die.” 

“Tallpaw!”” Dawnstripe’s yowl seemed to come 
from far away. The tug of her teeth in Tallpaw’s scruff 
startled him. He felt himself being yanked back, clear 
off his paws. 

Hareflight lunged in front of him, shielding 
Shrewpaw. “What in StarClan’s name are you doing?” 
The brown warrior stared at him, horror widening his 
eyes. 

Tallpaw blinked. Shrewpaw was trembling, bloody 
and tattered, on the ground beside his mentor. 

What have I done? 





Dawnstripe glared at Tallpaw, her pelt spiked with 
rage. “No claws, remember?” 

Tallpaw stared back, shock pulsing through him. 
‘Tm sorry!” 

Beside him, Hareflight checked Shrewpaw’s 


wounds. Shrewpaw squirmed away from his mentor. 
“T’m okay,” he insisted. 

He doesnt want to admit that I nearly shredded 
him. Tallpaw winced as he recalled the fury that had 
driven him on. How far would I have gone if 
Dawnstripe hadnt stopped me? 

Dawnstripe smoothed her chest fur with a couple of 
licks. “It’s been a stressful day,’ she meowed. “You 
just got carried away.” 

Hareflight eyed Tallpaw warily. “I guess.” 

“Sure.” Shrewpaw nodded as he shook out his pelt, 
hiding his scratches. 

“It won’t happen again,” Tallpaw promised, but 
inside he felt a stab of panic. Would he fail his 
assessment because of this? He could have killed 
Shrewpaw because he’d lost control of his rage. / 
dont deserve to pass the assessment. His pelt 
pricked with shame. True warriors dont hurt their 
Clanmates. 

Dawnstripe headed into the heather. “Let’s get back 
to camp.” 

Tallpaw trailed behind his Clanmates, dreading what 
Dawnstripe would have to tell Heatherstar. Doespring 


and Stagleap were just leaving the camp as they 
reached the clearing outside. 

Stagleap lifted his tail excitedly. “How did the 
assessment go?” 

Doespring’s eyes widened as she saw Shrewpaw’s 
bloody nose. “What happened to you?” 

Hareflight padded forward. “Tallpaw forgot he was 
fighting a Clanmate.” 

Stagleap stared at the clumps of fur hanging from 
Shrewpaw’s pelt. “Did you think you were fighting a 
ShadowClan patrol?” 

Tallpaw looked at the ground, his pelt hot. 

Shrewpaw shrugged. “He just got lucky with a few 
swipes.” 

“Go to Hawkheart,” Hareflight told him. “Get those 
scratches seen to while Dawnstripe and I speak with 
Heatherstar.” 

Stagleap shot Tallpaw a questioning look, but 
Tallpaw wasn’t about to tell him anything. “I’m going 
to get a drink,” he muttered, and followed the trail that 
skirted the camp wall to the spring. As he rounded the 
corner, he slowed. He could hear mews up ahead. 
Two cats were already beside the water. 


“Are you sure?” Tallpaw recognized Woollytail’s 
rasping mew. 

Palebird answered him. “Yes. In two moons’ time.” 

Tallpaw pricked his ears. 

“What about Tallpaw?” Palebird meowed. “We 
should tell him first.” 

“Of course,” Woollytail answered. “He’ll be 
pleased. It’s been a hard greenleaf for all of us. This 
will cheer him up.” 

Tallpaw’s pelt pricked uneasily. What will cheer me 
up? 

Palebird lowered her voice. “I think I should tell him 
by myself.” 

Tallpaw brushed past the heather and faced his 
mother. “Tell me what?” 

“Tallpaw!” Palebird’s eyes brightened. “I have good 
news.” Why is Woollytail looking so worried, then? 
Palebird gazed fondly at Woollytail. “I’m expecting 
kits.” 

Tallpaw glared at him. “Yours?” 

The tunneler lifted his muzzle. “Yes.” 

“You're going to be a brother at last,’ Palebird 
gushed. 


“But what about Sandgorse?” Tallpaw blinked at 
Woollytail. “You were his friend. How can you—” 

“Sandgorse would be pleased.” Woollytail cut him 
off. “He wouldn’t want to see Palebird grieving for the 
rest of her life. You should be pleased for your 
mother.” Palebird’s eyes shone. “She hasn’t been this 
happy for a long time,” he went on. 

Tallpaw’s heart twisted. Sandgorse and I couldnt 
make you happy. But Woollytail can. 

“You'll still be her first kit,’ Woollytail told him 
gently. “Did you really think you’d be her last?” 

Tallpaw looked at the two cats. Woollytail’s eyes 
begged him to understand, while Palebird seemed 
oblivious that she’d caused him any pain. “Whatever 
makes her happy,” he growled, turning away. Mouth 
still dry and tasting of Shrewpaw’s blood, he marched 
into camp. 

The Meeting Hollow was buzzing. Tallpaw’s 
Clanmates were streaming into it, their pelts ruffled 
with excitement. Cloudrunner looked over the rim. 
“Hurry up, Tallpaw, or you'll miss your own naming 
ceremony!” 

Aspenfall and Larksplash settled near the edge of 


the hollow. Mistmouse and Appledawn were 
discussing something animatedly while Plumclaw, 
Hickorynose, and Meadowslip sat close together. 
Tallpaw realized that for the first time, tunnelers and 
moor runners were sitting together. 

Hopkit, Sorrelkit, and Pigeonkit leaned over the 
edge. “Why can’t we sit next to you?” Hopkit called to 
his mother. 

Meadowslip shooed them away with a jerk of her 
muzzle. “Go and sit beside the nursery. You can see 
well enough from there. Heatherstar doesn’t need kits 
under her paws. This is an important ceremony.” 

Tallpaw spotted the Clan leader standing in the 
middle of the hollow. Reedfeather stood a few paces 
behind while Hareflight and Dawnstripe flanked him. 
Shrewpaw was with his father. Redclaw puffed his 
chest out proudly and glanced up at the pale sky. Was 
he wondering if Brackenwing was watching? 

Dawnstripe caught Tallpaw’s eyes, beckoning him 
with a flick of her tail. Did this mean he’d passed his 
assessment? Her eyes shone and she gave him a tiny 
nod. He’d passed! Tallpaw stared numbly back at her. 
Palebird had found a new family to replace her old 


one. What did it matter if he had a warrior name? She 
would have a litter of kits to look after soon. They’d 
make her happier than he ever had. 

“Come on, Tallpaw.” Woollytail padded up behind 
him and nudged him forward. 

Beside him, Palebird purred. “Your naming 
ceremony! So much good news in one day!” 

Tallpaw narrowed his eyes. For you, maybe. He 
padded across the tussocks and slid down into the 
hollow. 

Heatherstar dipped her head. “Leaf-bare is coming, 
but we will face it with two new warriors.” She looked 
at Shrewpaw. “Your warrior name will be Shrewclaw, 
in honor of your skill at hunting and fighting. You have 
trained well and are worthy of your warrior name.” 

Shrewclaw fluffed out his tail and purred. 

“Tallpaw.” Heatherstar’s eyes glowed as she gazed 
at him. Tallpaw shifted his paws. “Your father always 
meant to name you for your long tail, and so I give you 
your warrior name in honor of him. Talltail, one day 
you will be a greater warrior than even you can 
imagine. Sandgorse would be proud of you.” 

Talltail stared at his leader. He should have felt 


happy, but the numbness wouldn’t shift. Instead it 
wrapped itself tighter around his heart. Heatherstar 
held his gaze, her eyes searching his as if she was 
trying to tell him something. /s she just being kind 
because she knows I dont fit in? Around him, the air 
filled with the calls of his Clanmates. 

“Talltail!” 

“Shrewclaw!” 

They lifted their voices to the afternoon sky, 
celebrating WindClan’s newest warriors. 

Talltail glanced over his shoulder at Palebird. She 
was pressed against Woollytail, her eyes bright. Talltail 
swallowed back the sadness welling in his throat. Zs 
she proud of me, or just happy about the kits? 
Surrounded by his Clanmates cheering his name, he 
had never felt more alone. 


The stars shimmered in a peat-black sky. Perched 
on the edge of Outlook Rock, Talltail gazed beyond the 
mountain peaks that edged the horizon like jagged 
teeth. What lay beyond? Had any cat traveled that 
far? His breath billowed in front of him, the stone slab 
cold beneath his paws. The chilly leaf-fall night carried 


the distant scent of a leaf-bare frost. 

He was sitting vigil with Shrewclaw, their first night 
as warriors. As a fox barked far below, an owl flapped 
up from a distant tree. Talltail pricked his ears to see if 
he could hear the beat of its wings on the crystal air. A 
light twinkled in Twolegplace, catching Talltail’s eye. 
Did a kittypet live trapped inside those walls? Snug and 
warm, blissfully unaware of the warriors on the moor? 
How many lives were being lived out there, beyond his 
view? 

Talltail’s thoughts drifted to Sparrow and the other 
visitors. Had they passed that Twoleg nest? Perhaps 
that’s where they holed up for the winter. Maybe they 
were kittypets in leaf-bare, just playing at being rogues 
when the warm weather came. He shifted his paws, 
trying to ease the stiffness in his legs. 

“Too cold for you up here?” Shrewclaw whispered. 
“You could go hide in a tunnel. I won’t tell.” 

“Sure you wouldn’t.” Talltail twitched the tip of his 
tail with irritation. Was Shrewclaw going to keep on 
taunting him now they were warriors? He slid a look at 
his denmate. “Don’t you get bored of throwing the 
same old insults?” 


“Not at you.” 

“We’re not supposed to be talking.” Talltail watched 
a wisp of cloud drift over the moon. “StarClan won’t 
approve.” 

“They probably don’t approve anyway,” Shrewpaw 
hissed. “You don’t deserve your warrior name after 
fighting like that in the assessment.” 

“You were the first to unsheathe your claws.” 

“That was just to give it a bit of edge,’ Shrewclaw 
snapped. “I wasn’t trying to rip your pelt off.” A growl 
rumbled in his throat. “You caught me by surprise. 
Next time, P’ I shred you.” 

“There won’t be a next time.” 

Heatherstar’s mew made Talltail jump. He turned 
and saw her purple gaze blinking from the shadowy 
grass. She padded onto the rock. “You do know that 
you shouldn’t be speaking at all, let alone threatening 
each other?” Her gaze flicked from Talltail to 
Shrewclaw. 

Talltail squirmed, feeling like a scolded kit. “Sorry, 
Heatherstar.” 

“Talltail started it,’ Shrewclaw muttered. 

Heatherstar silenced him with a look. “I just wanted 


to check on my newest warriors.” Her glaze slid past 
Talltail to the starlit view beyond. “How’s the valley 
tonight?” 

“Chilly,” Shrewclaw told her. 

Talltail looked out beyond Highstones. “Endless,” he 
whispered, letting a note of longing creep into his 
voice. 

Heatherstar’s eyes glittered for a moment; then she 
turned away. “Stay silent,’ she reminded them as she 
padded onto the grass. “StarClan is watching.” 


Talltail stifled a yawn. The sky beyond ThunderClan 
territory was beginning to lighten at last. Shrewclaw’s 
head was drooping beside him. Talltail flicked him with 
his tail. 

Shrewclaw jerked up his head. “What?” 

“It’s nearly dawn,” Talltail hissed. 

“T knew that,” Shrewclaw grunted. 

Talltail stared out from the rock, watching the valley 
wake. Monsters began to roar along the Thunderpath. 
In the Twoleg den far below, a dog barked insistently 
until a Twoleg barked back, and the dog fell silent. The 
meadows and copses stirred into life as dawn turned 


the moon-drenched leaves from silver to green, and 
finally the sun lifted its head over the forest and set 
Highstones alight. 

Talltail heard paw steps brushing the grass behind. 
He tasted the air before he turned. Reedfeather. 

“You’re still awake.” Reedfeather sounded pleased. 

Talltail stretched, arching his spine until his tail 
quivered. He straightened and shook the damp morning 
chill from his fur. Beside him, Shrewclaw yawned. 
“T’m glad I got my warrior name before leaf-bare,” he 
meowed. “I’d have frozen to death sitting out here all 
night.” 

“Would a little hunting warm you up?” Reedfeather 
offered. 

Shrewclaw blinked. “Now?” 

“Sounds like a good idea to me.” Talltail padded off 
the rock. He needed to stretch his legs and he was as 
hungry as a fox. 

The heather rustled as Doesprinng and Aspenfall 
appeared. 

“They’re awake!” Aspenfall called. 

“Of course!” Shrewclaw bounded off the stone slab 
beside Talltail. 


“You must be frozen,’ meowed Doespring. She 
sniffed Shrewclaw’s dew-specked pelt. “And tired.” 

“Not too tired to hunt,’ Reedfeather meowed. 
“They’re joining our patrol. They can rest afterward.” 

Talltail tasted the air. “Where are we hunting?” 

Reedfeather nodded toward a patch of heather that 
caught the first rays of sunlight on the hillside below. 
“Prey will be waking early there.” He trotted down 
toward it, Aspenfall at his side. Shrewclaw ran to 
catch up while Doespring fell in beside Talltail. 

“Isn’t it great about Palebird’s kits!” she purred. 

“Any excuse to stay in the nursery,” Talltail grunted. 

Doespring stared at him. “Aren’t you pleased?” she 
meowed. “They’ll be your kin.” 

“Yeah.” Talltail kept his eyes on the patrol ahead. 

“When did you turn so selfish, Talltail?’” Doespring 
protested. “Palebird’s lost so much. You should be 
pleased for her.” 

“Should 1?” Talltail stopped dead and curled his 
claws into the grass. “I’m a warrior now; I can have 
my own opinion. Palebird should have stayed faithful to 
Sandgorse. It’s only been a few moons since the 
accident. Anyone would think she’s glad he’s gone so 


she can have Woollytail as her mate!” 

Doespring’s tail twitched. “You think too much about 
yourself, and not enough about your Clan, Talltail.” She 
narrowed her eyes. “You say you’re old enough to 
have your own opinion. But you’re also old enough to 
understand that loyalty to your Clan is more important 
than anything. Palebird is happy. So’s Woollytail. It’s 
great news that there’ll be more kits in WindClan. 
You’re the only one who’s not pleased.” 

Before he could argue, she broke into a run. “PI 
race you to the warren,” she called to the cats ahead 
as she hared past them. They charged after her. 

Shrewclaw veered toward the heather, nose 
twitching. “Rabbit scent!” 

Doespring swung around and gave chase with 
Aspenfall and Reedfeather on her tail. Talltail watched 
them plunge into the bushes. He didn’t want to follow. 
He’d rather hunt alone, with no one telling him how he 
should feel. He tasted the air as he headed for the 
moor-top. A rabbit had definitely passed this way not 
long ago. 

Talltail padded forward, stepping lightly over the 
grass. Low, grassy lumps covered the ridge ahead of 


him. Burrows. He dropped into a crouch and began to 
stalk, belly to the ground. Something twitched at the 
edge of his vision. He turned slowly and saw a pair of 
long, brown ears sticking above the grass. Rabbit. 

Talltail held his breath. The rabbit bent its head to 
graze. Talltail crept closer, low as a snake through the 
grass. He could hear the rabbit munching. In the 
distance the heather rustled as his Clanmates crashed 
through it. Can t they hunt quietly? Eyes fixed on his 
quarry, Talltail leaped. 

The rabbit raced away, its fear-scent filling the air. 
Talltail hurtled after it. Now the creature was less than 
a tail-length away. Timing his strides to match the 
rabbit’s, Talltail pounced. “Got you!” 

His heart sank as his paws hit bare grass. “Where 
are you?” He whirled around, spotting a burrow that 
reeked of fear-scent. You cant hide in there! Talltail 
plunged into the darkness. Tiny paws scrabbled a fox- 
length ahead of him. Reaching forward, he grabbed the 
rabbit’s fluffy haunches before it could disappear into 
the maze of tunnels. It squealed as Talltail hauled it out 
and nipped it quickly with a killing bite. As he sat up, 
the scent of blood and fresh earth filled his nose, 


blotting out all the other scents of the moor. 

“What in the name of StarClan are you doing?” 
came a disbelieving voice. Aspenfall was standing at 
the edge of the heather. 

Talltail nudged the rabbit with a paw. “Hunting.” He 
spat out a tuft of fur. 

“We don’t hunt underground anymore, remember?” 
Aspenfall looked round-eyed with concern. 
“Heatherstar said it wasn’t safe.” 

“I was chasing it from the ridge over there,” Talltail 
explained, pointing with his tail. He felt hot underneath 
his pelt. Why was Aspenfall questioning his catch? 
Had he forgotten that Talltail was a warrior now, just 
like him? 

“Well, the tunnels are forbidden now,” Aspenfall 
meowed. 

Shrewclaw slid out of the heather behind the gray- 
and-white warrior. “Has Wormcat been digging 
tunnels?” 

Anger surged through Talltail. He kicked the rabbit 
toward his Clanmate. “No, I’ve been catching prey.” 

Aspenfall took a step forward. “Calm down, Talltail. 
It’s going to be hard for all of us to remember that we 


don’t have the tunnels to hunt in. Come on, let’s get 
that rabbit back to camp.” 

Talltail picked up the fresh-kill and clamped it hard 
between his jaws to stop himself from responding to 
any more of Shrewclaw’s barbed comments. I’m a 
warrior now, he told himself. Things have changed 
from when we were apprentices. The rabbit bounced 
heavily against his front legs, making him stumble. So 
many things had changed, in fact, from Palebird 
expecting Woollytail’s kits to the tunnels being shut 
down forever, that Talltail hardly recognized WindClan 
at all. 





Talltail sat stiffly in his nest. Through its thick, wool 
lining, he could feel the moor ring with ice; every paw 
step, every clattering sheep hoof shivered through the 
frozen earth. His breath billowed up into the clear, 
black sky as he peered over the frost-wilted grass that 


edged the moor runners’ nests. Even without the 
tunnels in use, the warriors still slept in two groups, 
preferring to keep their own nests for now. But when 
the next litter of kits passed their final assessment, 
would they share a single sleeping area? 

Talltail pricked his ears, straining to hear the noises 
from the nursery. Stagleap was fast asleep in the nest 
beside him. Cloudrunner and Appledawn snored 
muzzle to muzzle. But Redclaw, Larksplash, and 
Dawnstripe were sitting up like Talltail, listening as 
another moan rose from beyond the thick gorse walls 
of the nursery. 

Woollytail paced anxiously outside with Hickorynose 
next to him. Mistmouse and Plumclaw huddled at the 
rim of the Meeting Hollow. 

“She’ll be fine,’ Plumclaw reassured Woollytail as 
he passed. 

Woollytail grunted, the fur rippling along his spine. 

“Hawkheart’s with her,’ Mistmouse soothed. “He’s 
done this countless times.” 

Hopkit, his black fur sticking up in tufts, scrambled 
from the elders’ den, where he’d been sent with 
Pigeonkit, Sorrelkit, and Meadowslip to wait out 


Palebird’s kitting. “Are they here yet?” 

Sorrelkit pushed past her brother. “Hawkheart’s still 
in there, rabbit-brain. Of course they’re not here yet.” 

Talltail jumped out of his nest. He knew he wouldn’t 
get back to sleep again. Palebird sounded like she was 
struggling, her groans growing more desperate. Talltail 
padded toward the elders’ den and stopped beside 
Hopkit. “These things take time,” he muttered, trying 
to reassure himself as much as the kit. 

Pigeonkit stuck his nose from the den entrance. The 
white patches on his pelt glowed against his dark gray 
fur in the moonlight. “Did Meadowslip make all that 
noise when she kitted us?” he mewed. 

Talltail’s ear twitched as a low, agonized wail 
echoed across the clearing. “I can’t remember,” he 
lied. Meadowslip’s kitting had been much quieter than 
this. Was something wrong? His paws pricked with 
worry. 

Meadowslip nudged Pigeonkit out of the way and 
padded out of the elders’ den. “She’s tougher than you 
think,” she murmured to Talltail, gazing toward the 
nursery. 

Talltail tipped back his head and looked up at 


Silverpelt. The ancestors wouldn’t let Palebird lose kits 
twice, would they? 

Lilywhisker slid out behind Meadowslip. Her amber 
eyes shone in the moonlight. “The first one is always 
the hardest. Second kits come easier.” 

Talltail stood and watched the nursery as Pigeonkit, 
Sorrelkit, and Hopkit weaved around him. 

“We won’t be the youngest anymore!” Hopkit 
mewed. 

“I can’t wait to show the new kits around camp,” 
Sorrelkit declared. 

“Tt’ll be a few days before they’re allowed out of 
the nursery,” Meadowslip warned her. 

Pigeonkit flicked his tail in the air. “We can teach 
them how to play Rabbit Run.” 

“And show them the Hunting Stones.” Hopkit 
limped toward the smooth rocks and scrambled onto 
the highest one. 

Talltail remembered one of his earliest days outside 
the nursery, when Sandgorse had tried to teach him to 
dig. The memory sent a shiver along his spine. If only 
he hadn’t fallen into that hole, he might have chosen to 
be a tunneler from the start. Everything might have 


been different. 

Sparrow would still have come. Talltail stiffened. 
He would still have persuaded Sandgorse to risk 
his life in the tunnels. The dark anger that lurked in 
the pit of his belly wormed up to his throat. 

Pigeonkit stared at him. “Why are you growling?” 

Talltail blinked. “I was just thinking about something 
else,” he meowed quickly, shaking out his pelt. 

Barkpaw squeezed out of the nursery and followed 
the rim of the Meeting Hollow toward the medicine 
den. 

Talltail bounded toward him. “How is she?” he 
demanded, slithering to a stop on the frosty grass in 
front of the young tom. 

“She’s tired.” Barkpaw’s eyes were dark. 

Talltail’s belly fluttered. “She will be okay, won’t 
she?” 

“I can’t make any promises.” Barkpaw met his 
gaze. “But Hawkheart knows what he’s doing. She’s 
in good paws.” As he hurried away toward the 
medicine den, Talltail glanced anxiously at the nursery. 

Ryestalk climbed out of her nest in the long grass 
and crunched across the clearing. “You were born on a 


night just like this, Talltail.” She fluffed out her pelt. 

“How do you know?” He didn’t look at her. “You 
were hardly more than a kit yourself.” 

“I was young, but my eyes were open, and my ears 
worked perfectly.” Ryestalk flicked her tail. “You were 
a squealer! Stagleap picked you up and put you outside 
the den one night, just so he could get some sleep.” 
Her eyes flashed as if she expected him to purr with 
amusement. When he didn’t, she went on. “Sandgorse 
heard you and took you straight back in. Poor Stagleap 
got an ear chewing for being so rabbit-brained.” 

The entrance to the medicine den rattled. Barkpaw 
scurried out with a wad of leaves in his mouth. Talltail 
wrinkled his nose at the sharp herb tang as the 
apprentice trotted past. 

“Palebird’s lucky to have two medicine cats to look 
after her,” Ryestalkk meowed. “She’ll get through this, 
Talltail.” 

As Barkpaw pushed his way back into the nursery, 
a shrill, puny mew sounded through the gorse wall. 
Ryestalk’s eyes lit up. “That’s the first one!” 

Hawkheart stuck his head out. “Come in, Woollytail. 
Meet your first kit.” 


Woollytail stared at the medicine cat like he’d just 
been dropped on the Thunderpath and a monster was 
headed for him. Hickorynose nudged him toward the 
gorse den. “Go on,” he urged. 

“I won’t know what to do!” Woollytail whispered. 

“Just welcome your new kits to WindClan. You'll be 
fine.” Hickorynose walked his friend closer to the 
entrance and watched the tunneler squeeze through 
the thorny entrance. 

Palebird shrieked. Talltail’s heart lurched. A tiny 
mewling drifted from the nursery. Then there was 
silence. Talltail held his breath. He heard fur swishing 
inside. Hawkheart was murmuring to Barkpaw. 
Woollytail’s strained mew was quickly hushed. The 
tunneler slid out of the nursery, his eyes wide and 
glittering. Talltail rushed toward him, shouldering past 
Appledawn, Ryestalk, and Hickorynose as they 
clustered around for news. 

“Is Palebird all right?” Talltail begged. 

“She’s great.” Woollytail met Talltail’s gaze. “Come 
and meet your brothers and sisters.” 

Weak with relief, Talltail followed Woollytail into the 
nursery. Barkpaw scooted to the edge to make room 


as they squeezed in. 

Hawkheart lifted his head from Palebird’s nest. 
“She’s very tired,” he warned them. 

Just enough moonlight filtered through the gorse for 
Talltail to make out his mother sprawled in her nest, 
her pelt wet and ruffled, and her eyes glazed. Four tiny 
shapes squirmed at her belly. Talltail crept closer, his 
nose wrinkling at the pungent scent of herbs and 
newborn kits. Woollytail crouched at Palebird’s head 
and started licking her ears. 

Hawkheart stood up with a grunt and headed for the 
entrance. “She’ll be back on her feet in a day or two,” 
he pronounced. “Don’t keep her awake too long.” 

Palebird stared at him in dismay. “You can’t leave! 
How am I going to feed all these kits? There are so 
many!” 

“There are only four, and they’ll do the work,” 
Hawkheart told her briskly. “You just have to lie still.” 

“What if I don’t have enough milk?” 

“Of course you will.” Hawkheart slid from the den. 
“Come on, Barkpaw,” he meowed over his shoulder. 
“Palebird can manage without us now.” 

Palebird gazed up at Woollytail with anxious eyes. 


“Will I really be able to look after them?” 

“Of course.” Woollytail lapped her cheek fondly. 
“You'll be a fine mother with these little ones, just like 
you were with Talltail.” 

Talltail’s heart felt as if something was squeezing. 
He gazed down at the kits, trying to make one out from 
another as they huddled together. “Have you named 
them?” 

“Not yet,” Woollytail told him. “Palebird’s too tired.” 

The kits had better get used to that, Talltail 
thought bitterly. 

The smallest kit—a black tom, his pelt still slick from 
his kitting—began to climb the side of the nest, hauling 
himself up with his tiny claws. Talltail reached in and 
grasped him gently by the scruff. Stay warm, little 
one. He swung him toward Palebird’s belly. 

“Careful!” she snapped. “You'll hurt him!” 

Stinging as though Palebird had raked his muzzle, 
Talltail laid the kit beside his littermates. He backed 
away. “I was just helping.” Grief hollowed his belly as 
he slid from the den. 

Barkpaw was waiting outside. “They’re perfectly 
healthy,” he meowed, as if he thought Talltail was still 


concerned. 

“Good.” Talltail headed for the entrance, his heart 
aching. 

“Where are we going?” 

We? Talltail glanced at his friend. It felt like a long 
time since Talltail had heard Barkpaw say we. “I’m 
going to feel the wind in my fur.” He fixed his eyes on 
the gap in the heather. “Do you want to come with 
me?” He braced himself for Barkpaw to make 
excuses and return to his den. “You must be tired,” 
Talltail prompted. The moon was sinking, which meant 
dawn was close, but there was time for Barkpaw to 
rest before his morning duties. “Hawkheart probably 
has a busy day planned for you.” 

“I don’t feel like sleeping yet,’ Barkpaw told him. 
“That was my first kitting.” He ducked through the 
entrance first. 

Talltail followed, and they began to climb the slope, 
following the trail around the heather. “Is Palebird 
really okay?” Talltail meowed in a rush. 

“Really.” Barkpaw’s pelt brushed his as they 
climbed. 

“She looked tired.” 


“Tt was a hard kitting.” 

“None of them died, though.” Talltail thought of 
Finchkit. 

“They’re survivors, like you,” Barkpaw purred. 

They walked in silence for a while. Talltail gently 
steered his friend toward Outlook Rock. “I love this 
view,” he mewed as he led Barkpaw out across the 
stone. 

Barkpaw peered into the night-shadowed valley. 
“Why? Everything is so dark and far away.” 

Talltail sat down, beckoning Barkpaw to sit beside 
him with a flick of his tail. “Just wait.” 

“For what?” 

The sky was growing pale as the sun pushed up 
toward the horizon behind them. Glancing over his 
shoulder, Talltail saw weak rays seeping through the 
bare branches of ThunderClan’s forest. “You'll see in 
a moment,” he told Barkpaw. As he spoke, the sun 
lifted above the trees. Sunlight swept the moor and lit 
up the tips of Highstones. 

Barkpaw gasped. “I’ve never seen that!” 

“Can you see the mountains behind?” 

Barkpaw narrowed his eyes. “There are 


mountains?” 

“And more land beyond them, probably,” Talltail 
meowed, paws pricking. “Places no Clan cat has ever 
seen.” 

“Or will ever see,” Barkpaw commented. 

Talltail turned. “Why not?” 

“Why would any cat trek that far from home?” 

“To see what was there!” 

Barkpaw shrugged. “I’ve been to the Moonstone, 
and that’s far enough. There’s plenty to see on the 
moor. I still haven’t learned every herb that grows 
here.” 

“Don’t you want to find new herbs, growing in 
places other cats haven’t been?” 

Barkpaw stared across the valley. “I couldn’t 
possibly go wandering off. My Clan needs me.” 

Talltail shifted his paws. “I wish WindClan needed 
me.” 

“Of course they do!” 

Talltail shrugged. “I thought I could replace 
Sandgorse by becoming a tunneler,’ he murmured. “I 
thought they’d need me then. But Heatherstar said we 
didn’t need tunnelers anymore. Now Palebird has had 


Woollytail’s kits. So she doesn’t need me either.” 

“She does!” Barkpaw exclaimed. “And the kits will 
need you, too.” 

Talltail shook his head. “It’s more than not being 
needed,” he sighed. “That’s just part of it.” 

Barkpaw frowned. “What do you mean?” 

“I. . . I can’t help feeling that I have to find 
Sparrow.” 

“Why?” Barkpaw’s eyes went round with 
confusion. 

“He killed Sandgorse.” Talltail searched his friend’s 
gaze for some trace of understanding or sympathy. 
Didn’t any of his Clanmates realize what Sparrow had 
done? 

“But Sandgorse’s death was an accident,” Barkpaw 
meowed. “It wasn’t Sparrow’s fault.” 

Not Sparrows fault? Talltail’s anger swelled until 
he felt it block his throat, choking his words. Why 
didn’t anyone see that a rogue had caused the death of 
a Clan cat and walked away unpunished? He glowered 
at the valley. You’re out there somewhere, I know. 
He pictured Sparrow stretching happily in a pool of 
dawn sunshine. You think you can go unpunished 


forever, but I wont let that happen. Talltail’s claws 
scraped the rock. One day, you'll be sorry. 

Barkpaw followed his gaze. “Each cat has his own 
destiny to follow,” he murmured. “And only StarClan 
knows where that leads.” 

“What if it leads beyond the Clan?” Talltail growled. 

Barkpaw’s tail twitched. “Beyond the Clan?” 

“What if my destiny is out there?” Talltail nodded 
toward the valley. What if my destiny is to avenge 
Sandgorse 5 death? 

“On your own?” 

“Yes.” Talltail glared at the distant fields, scanning 
for brown pelts moving across the grass. 

“Do you want to be a rogue?” Barkpaw demanded. 
Shock edged his mew. 

“Of course not.” How could Barkpaw be so 
narrow-minded? “Can I only be a warrior inside 
warrior territory?” Talltail turned his gaze on Barkpaw. 
“The warrior code must reach beyond borders, surely? 
Courage, honor, and loyalty don’t end at a scent line.” 

“You're just feeling unsettled because of the kits.” 
Barkpaw climbed to his paws and stretched. “Once 
you’ve gotten to know them, you'll feel differently. 


There’s room for all of you in the Clan, you know.” 

“Maybe.” Talltail watched Barkpaw pad toward the 
grass. But I doubt it. 

‘Td better get back,’ Barkpaw called over his 
shoulder. “Hawkheart will be looking for me.” 

Talltail turned his gaze back toward the valley. 
Where does my path lead? He glanced at the sky. 
Are you going to tell me, StarClan? His heart sank 
when there was nothing but silence, no change in the 
shape of the clouds overhead or in the sound of the 
wind. But his warrior ancestors hadn’t shared with him 
at the Moonstone; why would they guide him now? 
Perhaps even StarClan didn’t know what lay ahead for 
him. 

A bird called from the valley. Another answered tt. 
Talltail tipped his head on one side to listen. Those 
birds weren’t troubled by the idea of dead birds 
watching them, making decisions on their behalf. Why 
should he wait for his ancestors to make up their 
minds? 

I choose my own destiny. Nothing can stop me— 
not even StarClan. 





Talltail hopped from his nest, ready for the dawn 
hunting patrol. Stagleap and Shrewclaw were still 
snoring, not even stirring as he picked his way between 
their nests. They must have returned late from last 
night’s Gathering. Talltail had slept through their return. 


Why wait up and hear news they'd be sharing all day 
anyway? 

He padded out of the long grass. Freezing fog filled 
the camp. Dawn light seeped through the mist as 
Talltail sniffed at a frosty mouse. It was all that was 
left of the prey-heap pile. He picked it up and carried it 
to the nursery, thrusting it through the entrance to give 
it a chance to thaw. It should be soft by the time that 
Palebird, Meadowslip, and their kits woke. 

It had been a quarter moon since Palebird had kitted 
Wrenkit, Bristlekit, Rabbitkit, and Flykit. Talltail was 
proud of them. They had already explored the whole 
camp, asking questions, begging for badger rides, and 
getting under everyone’s paws. 

As he leaned into the nursery now, Palebird lifted 
her head sleepily and peered through the half light. “Is 
that you, Talltail?” 

“Yes. Do you need something?” Talltail pricked his 
ears. 

“Go away,” Palebird grunted. “You’re disturbing 
everyone. The kits kept us awake half the night 
because you made them so excited about the 
Gathering.” 


As Talltail ducked out of the den, a gorse thorn 
stabbed his ear. It stung less than Palebird’s words. 
Appledawn was stretching his spine at the edge of the 
long grass where the warriors slept. Hareflight stood 
yawning at the rim of the Meeting Hollow while 
Cloudrunner sniffed the empty patch where the prey 
heap should have been. 

Cloudrunner lifted his head. “It looks like we’ve got 
some hunting to do,” he commented. 

“T’m ready.” Talltail flexed his claws. 

Appledawn headed for the entrance, Hareflight at 
her side. Cloudrunner raced past them and led them 
out of camp. Talltail felt their paw steps ringing through 
the ice-bound earth. He gave chase, catching up on the 
grass clearing outside. He stopped and scanned the 
moor. “Which way?” 

“There’ll be prey near Fourtrees,’ Cloudrunner 
guessed. “Anywhere close to the woods, when it’s this 
cold.” The pale gray tom crashed away through the 
frost-whitened heather. Talltail veered around the 
bushes, running hard so that he was ahead of the patrol 
when they broke from the other side. He heard their 
paws thrumming behind him and pushed harder. 


“Why don’t you hunt down by the RiverClan 
border?” Cloudrunner panted when he caught up to 
Talltail at the edge of the trees. “Hareflight and I will 
search the brambles.” He glanced at Hareflight as the 
brown tom slithered to a halt, narrowly missing getting 
poked in the eye by a branch. 

Appledawn pulled up behind him, her flanks heaving. 
“It’s a bit early for a race!” she panted. 

Cloudrunner nodded to her. “You can hunt the 
RiverClan border with Talltail.”” He nodded toward the 
scrubby hillside that linked the woods above Fourtrees 
to the river. Suddenly the warrior’s eyes narrowed. 
Talltail jerked around, following his gaze. 

Two dark pelts were weaving between the bushes 
Just below the border with RiverClan. 

“The river must be frozen if they’re hunting on 
land,” Hareflight meowed. “They won’t like eating 
mice instead of fish.” 

“They didn’t mention it at the Gathering,” 
Cloudrunner growled. 

Talltail snorted. “Of course not. Clans don’t admit 
when they’re starving, remember?” He quoted the 
warrior’s words back at him. 


Cloudrunner’s pelt rippled. “Just keep your eyes 
open. Hungry Clans cross borders.” 

Of course they do! Otherwise they’d starve. 
Talltail headed downhill, Appledawn hurrying to keep 
up. “I hope we get a rabbit,’ she meowed. “I’m 
starving.” 

“If we could use the tunnels, we’d find plenty,” 
Talltail muttered. Bushes dotted the slope as it 
flattened toward the RiverClan scent line. The soil felt 
crumbly beneath Talltail’s paws, sandy enough to resist 
freezing even after several dawns of frost. This area 
was popular with rabbits because it was easy to dig at 
the height of leaf-bare, though the burrows became 
unstable in warmer weather. 

“We might as well re-mark the border while we’re 
here.” Appledawn padded toward a bramble spilling 
over the grass and brushed past tt. 

Talltail headed for a clump of ferns farther along. 
As he marked the icy fronds, he felt the earth tremble. 
Paw steps were heading this way. Talltail pricked his 
ears and let the fur lift along his spine. Something was 
running at full pelt, not even slowing as it approached 
the scent line. The ferns swished and a rabbit hared 


out past his nose. A she-cat exploded after it, with a 
tom at her heels. 

RiverClan scent bathed Talltail’s tongue. He 
recognized the ginger-and-white pelt of Nightsky as 
she streaked after the rabbit. Piketooth raced after her, 
ears flat, eyes wide. Talltail watched, rooted to the spot 
with surprise. The rabbit veered across the slope and 
Piketooth peeled away, picking up speed as he hit the 
open grass of WindClan territory. He outflanked the 
rabbit and drove it back toward Nightsky. Eyes 
gleaming, she pounced, killing it with a sharp nip to the 
spine. 

“Why are you standing here like a lump?” 
Appledawn’s hiss sounded in Talltail’s ear. “They’re on 
our territory!” She darted forward. 

Talltail followed and quickly overtook her, slowing as 
he neared the RiverClan cats. They spun around, 
bristling. Nightsky stood in front of her catch. 
Piketooth showed his teeth. Talltail scrambled to a halt, 
blocking them from Appledawn’s line of sight. The 
RiverClan cats looked lean and hungry, their pelts dull. 

“Quick,” Talltail hissed to Nightsky. “Take the rabbit 
and get back to your own territory.” 


The RiverClan she-cat stared at him. 

“Hurry!” Talltail hissed. He could hear Appledawn 
racing up behind him. 

Nightsky grabbed the rabbit and fled back to the 
border. Piketooth tore after her, flashing a shocked 
look at Talltail as he passed. 

“What in the name of StarClan are you doing?” 
Appledawn gasped, skidding to a stop beside Talltail. 

“I tried to stop them!” Talltail meowed. “But they 
were too quick for me. They must be starving!” 

“We'll be starving if you give away all our prey!” 
Appledawn spat. 

Fur flashed at the edge of Talltail’s vision. Hareflight 
and Cloudrunner were running down the slope. On the 
other side of the border, Talltail was relieved to see 
Nightsky and Piketooth disappear into the ferns. 

Cloudrunner pulled up beside Appledawn. “What 
happened?” 

“Talltail just let a RiverClan hunting patrol steal our 
prey!” Appledawn snarled. 

Talltail bristled. “It was their prey. It came from 
their territory.” 

Appledawn lashed her tail. “Once it crosses the 


border, it’s our prey.” 

Cloudrunner faced Talltail. “Is this true?” 

“They took their prey back over the border, yes.” 
Talltail lifted his chin. 

“You let them kill it on our land, though,’ Appledawn 
put in. 

“They killed the rabbit before I reached them. And 
they’re clearly starving.” Talltail couldn’t understand 
why his Clanmates were so unforgiving. “Are we 
supposed to want other Clans to starve?” Is that what 
warriors do? 

Hareflight stepped forward. “We take care of our 
own Clan first.” He glanced up the slope toward 
camp. “We have hungry cats, too.” 

“Then lets hunt,” Talltaill meowed lightly. “We 
haven’t lost a rabbit; we’ve just seen one cross the 
border and go back again. Come on, let’s check out 
that gorse over there.” 


“Your Clanmates aren’t happy with you.” 
Heatherstar sat at the back of her den, half-hidden in 
shadow. 

Talltail stood in front of her, feeling slightly baffled. 


Why was everyone making such a fuss about the 
RiverClan rabbit? “It was prey from their territory.” 
He was tired of explaining. 

“So you keep saying.” Heatherstar sighed. “But we 
have to feed our own Clan first.” 

“They flushed it out,’ Talltail reasoned. “It never 
would have run into our territory if RiverClan hadn’t 
chased it there.” 

Heatherstar leaned forward. “Whats wrong, 
Talltail?” Her eyes were round with curiosity. 

Talltail’s fur pricked along his spine. “Why does 
there have to be anything wrong?” 

“I know you’ve had a hard time.” Heatherstar’s 
mew was sympathetic. “Palebird never got over 
Finchkit—” 

“She got over her enough to start a new family with 
Woollytail,” Talltail muttered. 

Heatherstar blinked. “Losing Sandgorse was a 
shock for you, I know. And I’m sorry you weren’t able 
to follow in his paw steps, but I had to think of the 
whole Clan.” Heatherstar took a breath. “If there’s 
ever anything you want to talk about, I want you to 
know you can come and talk to me. Or Dawnstripe.” 


She frowned. “I worry that you hold back from your 
Clanmates. You keep too much to yourself. Being part 
of a Clan means sharing in all things.” 

Talltail flicked his tail, feelng more and more 
uncomfortable. “May I go now, please?” 

Heatherstar nodded. “Of course. But remember, 
you can always talk to me.” 

“Thanks.” Talltail turned and headed out of the den. 

Barkface, who had been given his medicine cat 
name just a few days before, was waiting for him in 
the clearing. “T have to talk to you,” he hissed urgently. 

“What about?” 

“Just wait!” Barkface led him to the spring outside 
the camp wall and stopped in the clearing. The water 
bubbled beside their paws, lapping over the rim of ice 
around the edge of the little pool. “Do you remember 
what you said at Outlook Rock?” He faced Talltail 
with his ears pricked. “After Palebird kitted? You 
asked what would happen if your destiny led you 
beyond the Clan,” Barkface prompted. 

Talltail nodded. “So?” 

“You said that it was possible to be a warrior even 
beyond Clan borders.” 


“T still believe that.” 

Barkface went on. “You wanted to find out what 
was out there.” 

Talltail’s paws pricked with impatience. “Why are 
we going over this again?” 

“I was out on the moor at sunrise,’ Barkface 
mewed in a rush. “I was picking sheep sorrel to ease 
Flailfoot’s fever, and I found a tuft of black-and-white 
fur.” 

Talltail stared at him. “How’s that important?” 

“You ‘re black and white!” 

“Are you saying you found my fur?” Talltail looked 
along his flank. “I don’t think I’ve lost any.” 

“No!” Barkface leaped up the ridge of earth above 
the spring and paced along the top. “Don’t you see? It 
was a sign.” 

“A sign?” Talltail was confused. 

“As I held it up and looked at it, the wind whisked it 
from my paw and carried it over the moor like a puff 
of smoke. It just vanished.” 

Talltail frowned. “What are you trying to say? That 
I’m about to vanish?” Anxiety began to worm in his 
belly. 


Barkface was quivering. “I just know it means 
something. It fe/t important, like StarClan had sent tt. 
And after what you said about your destiny leading you 
outside the Clan, well, maybe you were right. Maybe 
this was StarClan’s way of saying they agree.” 

“You think StarClan wants me to leave?” Talltail felt 
cold. Was that why they hadn’t shared dreams with 
him at the Moonstone? “Do you think I should?” His 
throat tightened. 

“No!” Barkface scrambled down the bank and 
stopped a whisker from Talltail’s muzzle. “Of course 
you don’t have to. But if you truly believe that your 
destiny lies beyond our borders, I think StarClan wants 
you to follow it.” 

Talltail saw his friend’s eyes glow with conviction. 
He just wants me to be happy. Slowly he nodded. 
“Thanks for teling me, Barkface.” He climbed up the 
bank and padded over the grass. ‘PI have to think 
about it.” 

“Do what you feel is right, Talltail”’ Barkface called 
after him. 

Talltail lifted his muzzle and gazed toward the moor- 
top. He could picture the valley beyond as easily as if it 


were the WindClan camp. He’d memorized the fields, 
the roll of the hills, the tracks left by rivers and 
Thunderpaths on the countless patrols he’d spent on 
Outlook Rock. He could picture it just as Sandgorse 
could picture the tunnels running below the moor. 

His paws itched with sudden excitement. He 
belonged out there, and StarClan agreed. His destiny 
was to leave his territory and track down the cat 
who’d killed his father. He saw it clearly now. His 
Clanmates didn’t think Sparrow had done anything 
wrong, but StarClan understood. They were telling him 
to avenge Sandgorse’s death. 

Energy surged beneath his pelt. 

I have to leave the moor! My destiny lies beyond 
the Clans! 





Talltail hurried back to the camp. He had to tell 
Heatherstar. He should leave as soon as he could. 
That’s why the weather had been so cold and dry. 
StarClan must be preserving Sparrow’ scent trail 
for me to follow! 


“Talltail! Talltail!”’ 

As he crossed the tussocks, Rabbitkit, Flykit, 
Wrenkit, and Bristlekit came tearing toward him. He 
hopped clear as they swarmed around his legs. “I can’t 
play now,” he told them briskly. “I have to speak with 
Heatherstar.” 

Bristlekit stared at him with round eyes. “But you 
just spoke with her!” 

Wrenkit glanced over her shoulder. “She’s busy.” 
The WindClan leader was with Reedfeather in the 
Meeting Hollow. The two cats sat, heads close, deep in 
conversation. 

“She won’t be too busy for this.” Talltail tried to 
move forward, but Rabbitkit clung to his leg. “Give us 
a badger ride!” she squeaked. “Cloudrunner says 
we’re too big now.” 

Talltail felt a pang as he met the young cat’s gaze. 
He would miss his half sister growing up. He’d never 
even know her warrior name. “Okay,” he conceded, 
and crouched down. Before he had time to protest, all 
four kits had scrambled onto his back. They clung to 
his fur with thorn-sharp claws. 

Lilywhisker purred outside the elders’ den. “Come 


and see this, Flailfoot. Talltail’s bringing us some prey.” 

“No, he’s not!” Flykit wriggled on Talltail’s back. 

Talltail’s whiskers twitched. “Yes, I am. I’m going to 
feed you to Lilywhisker and Flailfoot. Elders love the 
taste of fresh kit.” 

“No! No!” Flykit squealed in horror. “I want to get 
down.” 

Stomping his paws like a badger, Talltail carried the 
kits toward the elders. 

Lilywhisker licked her lips. “You’re just in time, 
Talltail, I’m getting hungry.” 

“No!” Flykit squealed. 

“Don’t be silly,’ Wrenkit chided. “Of course they 
won't eat us.” 

“But what if they did?” 

Talltail felt Flykit scrabble along his spine. “It’s okay, 
Flykit.” He stopped beside Lilywhisker. “We’re just 
pulling your tail.” 

Lilywhisker reached forward and swung Flykit off 
Talltail’s back by his snowy scruff. Talltail hunkered 
down and let the others scramble off. He watched as 
the kits swarmed over Flailfoot, his heart aching at the 
sight of the kits and elders. There was so much he 


would miss. And yet his destiny lay elsewhere—with 
revenge for his father’s death. And then what? 

Talltail pictured the mountains beyond Highstones. 
There was so much to discover out there, enough to fill 
countless lifetimes. 

“Lilywhisker.” He dipped his head solemnly to the 
elder. “Thank you for your kindness these past 
moons.” 

The old cat blinked in surprise. “Er, okay.” She 
looked as if she was about to question him, so Talltail 
backed away. 

“I have to speak with Heatherstar,’ he meowed. He 
turned and trotted over to the Meeting Hollow. 
“Heatherstar? Can we talk?” 

She looked up, her eyes darkening, and nodded to 
Reedfeather. “We can continue this later,’ she 
murmured to her deputy, and leaped out of the hollow. 
“Follow me, Talltail.” 

He followed her to her den, sliding into its shadow 
for the second time that day. “I have to leave 
WindClan.” He blurted out the words before 
Heatherstar had even sat down. 

“Leave WindClan?” She repeated his words almost 


absently, her gaze wandering as though she was 
remembering something from a long time ago. “Okay,” 
she murmured at last. 

Wasn’t she going to ask him why? “Sparrow was 
never punished for killing Sandgorse,”’ he told her 
bluntly. “I have to find him and make him pay for what 
he did.” 

“And that’s why you’re leaving.” Heatherstar curled 
her tail over her paws. “Couldn’t you wait for him to 
return next greenleaf and punish him then?” 

Talltail shifted his paws. Why was she being so 
calm? He was going to leave WindClan! “There’s 
more to it than that,” he admitted. “I .. . I want to see 
what lies beyond the Clans. Don’t you?” 

Heatherstar shook her head. “The Clan has always 
been as much as I need.” 

“But my Clanmates don’t understand me. Some of 
them don’t even like me.” 

“You could change that,” she meowed softly. “They 
respect you. But they can sense your anger and 
unhappiness. It makes their pelts prick.” 

“That’s why I need to go,” Talltail confessed. “I feel 
trapped here.” Thoughts of tunnels—roaring water and 


pressing earth—swamped him. He struggled to catch 
his breath. “I need fresh wind in my pelt.” 

“You feel trapped by your home?” Heatherstar 
tipped her head questioningly. “Are we trapped by the 
sky, or the earth?” she asked. “Are we trapped 
because we need prey to live? Or water to drink? Or 
air to breathe? We depend on all these things, but they 
don’t make us feel trapped.” Her eyes burned in the 
darkness. “Can you imagine what your life will be like 
without the protection of your Clan? You will have to 
hunt for yourself, heal yourself if you get hurt. There 
will be no one to share your victories. Or your 
defeats.” 

Talltail’s ears twitched. “But I will be free.” 

“You will be free to discover where your heart truly 
lies.” Heatherstar’s mew was barely a whisper. She 
seemed to be talking to herself. 

Talltail leaned closer. “Barkface had a sign from 
StarClan.” 

“Barkface is a talented young medicine cat.” 
Heatherstar’s eyes sparked. “But it is Hawkheart who 
reads signs from StarClan.” 

“The sign said I should leave.” 


“A cat decides his own path.” 

“Don’t we have to do what StarClan tells us?” 

Heatherstar purred. “Our ancestors were all cats 
like us once. They know we shape our own destinies.” 

Talltail’s fur tingled. “I’m leaving,” he meowed. 
“Now.” 

“I understand.” Heatherstar sighed and stood up. “I 
know there is nothing I can say to change your mind. 
But say farewell to your Clan first.” 

“Do I have to?” Talltail swallowed. He didn’t need 
to explain himself. He only needed to tell them what he 
planned to do. He followed Heatherstar out of the den, 
around the rim of the hollow, and stopped beside her at 
the head of the grassy clearing. 

“WindClan!” Heatherstar beckoned her Clanmates 
forward with a flick of her tail. “Talltail has something 
to say.” 

Aspenfall padded from the prey-heap pile. 
Cloudrunner got to his paws and crossed the tussocks. 
Hareflight and Shrewclaw fell in beside him. 
Mistmouse and Hickorynose climbed from their nests 
in the bracken patch. Woollytail nearly tripped over 
Hopkit, Sorrelkit, and Pigeonkit as they dashed ahead 


of Meadowslip and barged past their Clanmates. 

Redclaw halted as the kits bounced past him. 
“Watch out!” 

Wrenkit scrambled over the bumpy clearing with 
Bristlekit and Flykit at her heels. They crowded around 
Palebird as she padded out of the nursery. 

“What does Talltail want?” Flykit asked his mother 
anxiously. 

Palebird stooped to smooth the white fur between 
his ears with her tongue. “I don’t know.” 

Lilywhisker, Flailfoot, and Flamepelt padded from 
the elders’ den, eyes sparking with curiosity, while 
Hawkheart ducked out of the medicine den. 

“Do you know what this is about?” he asked 
Barkface, who was just behind him. Barkface looked 
at his paws. 

Dawnstripe nosed past her Clanmates. “Talltail? 
What’s happening?” 

Talltail forced himself to take a deep breath, trying 
not to be alarmed by the faces staring expectantly at 
him. Did his Clanmates care about him after all? “I’m 
leaving WindClan,” he announced. 

“Leaving?” Dawnstripe’s eyes stretched wide. “You 


can’t!” 

“I have to.” Talltail dipped his head. “I’m sorry, 
Dawnstripe. I know you hoped I'd be a great warrior 
one day, but my destiny lies somewhere beyond the 
Clan.” 

“Don’t be such a rabbit-brain.” Woollytail stared at 
him, ears twitching. “This is your home.” 

Talltail didn’t want to get caught up in an argument. 
He pressed on. “Look after my mother, Woollytail.” 
He glanced at Palebird. She’d turned her attention to 
Wrenkit and was washing her with brisk laps of her 
tongue. Meadowslip nudged her and she looked up. 

“What?” 

“Talltail’s leaving WindClan,” Meadowslip told her. 

Palebird’s gaze sharpened with surprise. “Leaving? 
But why?” 

Talltail glanced at Heatherstar. “Lots of reasons,” he 
mewed. 

Heatherstar took a step forward. “None of us is a 
prisoner here. I would rather Talltail stayed, just as you 
all would, but I will not force him against his will. Our 
hearts and thoughts will travel with him.” 

The cats stared at their leader in astonishment. 


Talltail realized they couldn’t believe Heatherstar 
wasn’t trying to stop him, reminding him of his loyalty 
to the Clan and the warrior code, the moons of training 
he had gone through to become a warrior, the 
importance of strong, young cats to catch prey and 
patrol borders on behalf of their Clanmates. Talltail 
narrowed his eyes. Did Heatherstar want him to 
leave? 

Hareflight leaned forward and rested his muzzle 
against the top of Talltail’s head. “In that case, go well, 
and may StarClan light your path.” He sounded 
baffled, as if he expected Talltail to blurt out that it was 
alla joke. 

“May StarClan light your path,’ murmured 
Cloudrunner and Ryestalk. 

“Don’t go!” Wrenkit dashed forward and ducked 
under Talltail’s belly. Weaving in and out of his legs, 
she mewed, “You can’t go. Who will play with us?” 

He nosed her toward Palebird. “You’ve plenty of 
denmates to play with.” 

“But they can’t give us badger rides!” Wrenkit 
wailed. 

‘Don’t worry, dear.” Palebird began washing her 


again. “He won’t be gone long.” 

Talltail scanned the stunned faces of his Clanmates. 
“I’m going for good,” he told them. “I’ve made up my 
mind. I’ve spent long enough looking at distant lands 
from Outlook Rock. I want to see them up close. I 
want to explore places that no Clan cat has ever 
been.” 

“Heatherstar?” Dawnstripe stared at the WindClan 
leader. “Are you really going to let him do this?” 

“Tt’s his choice,” Heatherstar answered. 

Before anyone else could argue, Talltail padded 
forward, pushing past his Clanmates. 

“Talltail!” Doespring gasped as he passed. “P1 miss 
you.” 

“Me too,” Stagleap called. 

“I don’t understand.” Shrewclaw blinked as Talltail 
reached him. “How can you leave? We trained 
together. I thought Pd always have you to hunt 
alongside.” 

Talltail shrugged. “Hunt with someone else.” He 
met Shrewclaw’s gaze, surprised to find it darkening 
with sadness. “I thought you’d be glad to see the 
wormcat leave.” 


“T’m sorry.” Shrewclaw’s ear twitched. “I was only 
ever teasing.” 

“It’s more fun teasing than being teased,’ Talltail 
commented. He pushed away his bitterness and lifted 
his chin. “But that’s not why I’m leaving. There’s 
something I have to do, and I can’t do it here.” 

“Good luck.” Lilywhisker’s raspng mew sounded in 
his ear. She touched his muzzle to his cheek, and he 
paused for a moment to breathe in her warm, familiar 
scent. 

“Thank you, Lilywhisker.” Flicking his tail, he 
marched for the camp entrance, refusing to look back. 
He pushed through the heather, his mind whirling. /’m 
actually leaving. After dreaming about what lay 
beyond the Clan borders for so long, he was going to 
find out. Fear and excitement surged beneath his pelt. 

“Talltail!” Barkface was following him across the 
grass clearing. “Can I walk with you to the edge of the 
moor?” 

Talltail slowed. “Yes, of course.” 

Barkface fell in beside him as they skirted the 
heather and began to climb the slope to the moor-top. 

“You weren’t unhappy all the time, were you?” 


Barkface mewed as they neared the ridge. 

“No.” Talltail’s heart swelled as he remembered his 
first day’s training when he nearly outran Stagpaw. 
And all the times he’d skimmed the grass, fast as a 
bird, the wind streaming through his pelt. His first 
catch, his first Gathering, his first sight of the 
Moonstone. “But I’ll only find peace when I’ve made 
Sparrow pay for killing Sandgorse.” 

Barkface’s pelt brushed his flank. “Do you really 
think that will change anything?” 

“Of course it will!” The dark fury that slumbered in 
Talltail’s belly began to stir. He wanted Sparrow to 
suffer as Sandgorse must have suffered. 

“You can always come back afterward,” Barkface 
murmured. 

Come back? Talltail didn’t answer. He was never 
coming back. 

They reached the peak of the moor. Talltail looked 
out across the valley, the wind lifting his pelt. “Good- 
bye, Barkface.” He faced his friend. “You’re going to 
be a great medicine cat.” Then he bounded down the 
slope, all the way across the border toward the 
Thunderpath. He fought the urge to turn and see 


Barkface silhouetted against the sky. His future lay 
ahead of him, not behind. 





Talltail scrambled into the ditch beside the 
Thunderpath as a monster roared past. Flattening his 
ears, he waited for a gap. Sparrow was somewhere on 
the other side and he was going to track him down. 
That heartless rogue was going to pay for destroying 


his life. 

As soon as the roar of monsters quieted down, 
Talltail hurtled across the flat, black stone. He 
scrambled through the hedge on the far side, its brown 
leaves rattling as he scraped between the gnarled 
branches and burst into the open field. Which way 
would the rogues have gone? Through stinging eyes, 
Talltail scanned the landscape. A muddy field stretched 
ahead of him, bordered on each side by brown hedges. 
Overhead a buzzard wheeled, its wings outstretched to 
catch the wind. Talltail crept along the side of the field, 
keeping close to the hedge as the ground sloped 
upward. A wide, muddy track formed the far edge of 
the field, uneven and specked with stones. Ditches ran 
on either side and Talltail hesitated, wondering whether 
to keep to the hedge and trek through the long, damp 
grass, or leap the ditch and follow the stony track. 

Instinct kept him near the hedge, but the grass 
dragged at his fur, soaking him until he was chilled to 
the bone. Nettles grew thickly among the roots of the 
hedge, shriveled and browned by leaf-bare but still 
vicious enough to sting his nose. When he got sick of 
trying to avoid them, Talltail backtracked, leaped the 


ditch, and padded warily along the open track, his heart 
pounding. 

Every scent was new, every noise strange: a far-off 
whine; a distant crack; the banging of wood against 
wood. Talltail’s sodden pelt began to spike. Had 
Sparrow walked this way? Talltail lifted his chin. 
Sparrow would never have let fear slow his paws. He 
would have walked the path as though he owned it. 
The arrogant tom acted like every territory was his 
own. Talltail flexed his claws. It was time someone 
taught him a lesson. 

He glanced at the sky. The sun was sliding toward 
Highstones. Was this the way he’d come when he 
visited Mothermouth? He tasted the air, trying to 
recognize scents. A sharp Thunderpath scent bathed 
his tongue. His ears pricked as a low rumbling sounded 
nearby. Talltail froze. Something huge was growling, 
moving closer fast. 

A huge monster lurched around the corner and 
bounded along the track toward him. Its round, black 
paws were huge, each as big as a regular monster. A 
Twoleg sat scowling on top, swaying and jerking as the 
monster bounced beneath him. 


Talltail’s pelt bushed up. He leaped for the edge of 
the path and plunged into the ditch. He tumbled to the 
bottom, gasping with cold as he dropped into stagnant 
water. The monster growled past and bumped away 
along the track. Trembling, Talltail dragged himself out 
of the ditch. His pelt was rank with green slime, and 
dripping wet. He shook it, queasy at the thought of 
washing the putrid stench out. Angry with himself for 
being caught off-guard by the monster, he slunk along 
the hedgeside, ears pricked and mouth open, tasting for 
danger with every breath. The grass clung wetly to his 
fur and he was shivering violently by the time the 
hedge dwindled, leaving long strands of spiked, silver 
vines in its place to mark the edge of the field. 

Talltail sniffed the vines. There was no scent of 
earth or wood to them. They ran long and barbed 
between wooden stalks. Beyond the row of stalks, a 
path of smooth, white stone stretched to a wooden wall 
that loomed up, taller than a tree. Eager to get clear of 
the soggy grass, Talltail ducked beneath the lowest 
vine and padded onto the white stone. The clearing 
was wide and square, walled by stone on either side. 

Had he seen this place from Outlook Rock? He 


opened his mouth and let scent wash his tongue. The 
jumble of unfamiliar smells confused him. Pelt pricking, 
he pictured the view from the moor. This must be the 
small cluster of Twoleg dens that sat between the 
Thunderpath and Highstones, sheltering among the 
curving fields like chicks in a nest. He realized that the 
tall, wooden wall was part of a huge den. He 
remembered its roof, wide and square, towering beside 
a cluster of small stone dens. Lights had shone from 
the smaller dens and smoke had plumed from their 
roofs. But no light or smoke had ever flashed from the 
great wooden nest. Talltail sniffed it and smelled the 
warm scent of prey. Did Twolegs store fresh-kill 
there? 

Keeping low, Talltail crept toward it, belly growling 
at the thought of an easy meal. He scanned the wall, 
searching for gaps in the wood. A dog barked. Talltail 
stiffened. The barking grew louder and sharpened into 
an excited yelp. He spun around to see two black-and- 
white dogs clear a low stone wall that surrounded one 
of the smaller dens and hurtle toward him. Their eyes 
blazed with excitement. 

Talltail ran. His paws skidded on the smooth stone 


and he stretched out his claws, fighting to get a grip. 
Jaws snapped at his tail and he shot forward, heart 
bursting with terror. The wooden wall loomed ahead. 
He veered around, heading for the corner. A stone wall 
blocked his way. He leaped it, landing smoothly on the 
other side. Grass crowded the wooden wall here. 
Talltail plunged through it, searching desperately for a 
gap in the wood to squeeze through. Behind him, paws 
scrambled clumsily over the wall. 

Talltail glanced back, relieved to see the dogs land 
awkwardly, crashing into each other as they fought to 
take the lead. Paws tangling, it took a moment for 
them to regain their footing. But they were fast and 
long-legged. He couldn’t outrun them for long. Their 
yelpmg grew louder. Their breath billowed over his 
haunches. 

Run! 

Talltail’s mind whirled in terror, but he forced himself 
to focus, his heart leaping as he spotted a split in the 
wood. He shot through it, splinters jabbing his pelt, his 
shoulders almost getting stuck as he forced his way in. 
Relief swamped him as he heard the dogs howling 
outside. There was no way they’d squeeze through 


behind him. He looked around, blinking as his eyes 
adjusted to the shadows inside the den. Pale light 
spilled through narrow gaps high up the walls. Bundles 
of dry grass loomed up on every side, bound into 
blocks and stacked neatly all the way to the roof. The 
air smelled dry and dusty, like grass in greenleaf. 

Behind him the dogs scrabbled, whimpering, at the 
wood. Talltail spun around, his tail bushed up. A snout 
poked through the gap, sharp, yellow teeth showing as 
the dog drew back its lips and growled. With another 
shove, the rotten wood splintered. A paw reached in, 
then a shaggy, brown shoulder and a drooling, snarling 
muzzle. 

Talltail fled as the wood split and the dogs exploded 
into the den, howling with triumph. He hurled himself 
at one of the grass piles, relieved to find the bundles 
tightly packed enough to support his weight as he 
scrambled up the side. He dug in his claws, scooting up 
like a squirrel. Behind him the dogs yelped and jumped, 
their breath hot and stinking on his tail. But this was 
too steep for them to climb with their ungainly paws. 
They slid back every time they tried to get a grip on 
the dried grass, landing with a snapping, yowling thud. 


Talltail reached the top and peered down. Whining, 
the dogs paced at the bottom, their eyes blazing with 
fury. Outside, a Twoleg squeal made them freeze. The 
dogs looked at each other, glanced balefully at Talltail, 
then turned and ran, squeezing out through the gap 
they’d forced open. 

Talltail sank onto the bundled grass, dizzy with relief. 
The ground swam beneath him, so far away he felt like 
he’d climbed a tree. The top of the grass stack was 
prickly; stalks jabbed his flank. But it was dry and 
warm. Mouse scent hung in the air. His belly growled, 
but hunting would mean climbing down from his safe 
nest, and the dogs might come back. Shadows 
swallowed the space beyond the grass stacks, growing 
deeper as the sun set outside. He might as well rest 
here for the night. Spiraling around, Talltail smoothed 
out a place to sleep. He curled into a tight ball and 
tucked his nose beneath his paws. His breathing 
slowed. 

I made it. He’d left the Clan. He pictured his 
Clanmates settling down for their twilight feeding time, 
and waited for a prick of regret. But nothing stirred 
except the peace of being alone. Purring, his body 


softened as he drifted into sleep. 


Talltail woke with a start, heart racing. Where am I? 
He blinked, recognizing the bundled grass, pale in the 
early light. The wooden den. He stretched, scenting 
mouse, and peered over the edge. No fresh scents of 
dogs. They hadn’t come back. Scrambling down, he 
landed lightly on the smooth earthen floor. 

No dawn patrol. No hunting duty. Someone else 
would have to clear the old sheepswool from Flailfoot’s 
nest. Excitement surged beneath his pelt. He was free 
to follow his destiny! 

Tiny paws scuttled at the edge of his hearing. Talltail 
braced himself, opening his mouth to taste the air. 
Mouse scents seeped from every shadowy corner. 
Stifling a purr of satisfaction, he crept forward. His tail 
whisked the stray grass stalks that littered the floor. He 
lifted the tip up, careful to keep quiet. Something 
moved in the shadows. He fixed his gaze on a flicker 
of brown fur and moved toward it, drawing himself 
silently forward, paw by paw. This wasn’t how he was 
used to hunting, but Talltail knew there was no room to 
give chase in here. He had to creep up on his prey 


instead. 

He could see the mouse more clearly now that his 
eyes had adjusted to the gloom. It had picked up a 
grass stalk and was nibbling the seeds at the tip. Talltail 
crept closer, holding his breath. The mouse glanced 
around, then went back to nibbling. Talltail showed his 
teeth. Then he leaped. He slammed his paws down 
onto the soft back of the mouse. It was already dead 
by the time he reached forward to nip its spine. 

Sitting up, he let his purr rumble out loud, then 
tucked into his meal, savoring the richness of its flesh. 
Prey tasted different here. There was no flavor of 
heather and peat. It was fatty and moist and sang on 
his tongue. And very easy to catch! 

A dog barked in the distance. Talltail stiffened. It 
was time he moved on, easy prey or not. The dogs 
wouldn’t stay away forever. He swallowed his last 
mouthful and padded around the base of the grass pile, 
scanning the wooden wall for the hole the dogs had 
chased him through. It was much bigger now, jagged- 
edged and filled with bright light. Tasting the air warily, 
Talltail stuck out his head. The air was damp, and 
dripping grass soaked his muzzle. The hard frost had 


broken, giving way to low, gray clouds. A steady 
drizzle sprayed Talltail’s face. He fluffed out his fur 
and padded from the wooden nest, crossing the grass 
toward another stone wall. The dog barked again, its 
companion joining in, raising their voices to a howl. 
They’d come looking for him soon. 

Talltail broke into a run and leaped onto the wall in 
an easy bound. The land on the other side was wooded 
and sloped steeply up. To one side he could see past 
the line of trees to the distant Highstones. Would the 
rogues have gone there? Talltail narrowed his eyes. 
Why should they? They preferred to eat other cats’ 
prey. Why would they head for stony, bushless slopes, 
where the only prey would have to be stalked with 
more skill than they possessed? Besides, the stones 
would hurt their paws. They may be used to traveling, 
but he guessed they only followed the softest paths 
that they could find. 

He looked the other way, spotting a smooth, grass 
path at the edge of the tree line. That was the sort of 
route they’d choose. He jumped down and trekked 
along it, glancing into the shadowy woods. Would they 
have gone in? The trees would give shelter. He should 


check it out. The thought made his pelt prick. Even 
though the tall branches were bare, they still crowded 
out the sky. Taking a deep breath, he headed into the 
trees. 

He pricked his ears, his heart quickening at the 
sighing of the wind above. It set the branches rattling, 
and as he passed a slender ash, he heard it creak 
ominously. Talltail darted forward, fear flaring. Did 
trees fall down? Was he going to get crushed? The 
dark gray sky glowered above, not giving enough light 
to throw shadows. Instead the trunks of all the trees 
were swallowed up in gloom, filled with brambles to 
trip unwary paws and holes to make him stumble. 

Talltail’s nose twitched. Rabbit scents hung on the 
damp air. Birds, too, and other forest prey he’d smelled 
on trips to Fourtrees. Mole. Shrew. Vole. ThunderClan 
prey. His prey, too, now. His belly grumbled, but it was 
too dark to hunt properly. He’d have to wait for some 
kind of clearing in the trees. 

The ground started to slope upward, but Talltail 
leaped easily up the rise and scrambled onto rocky 
overhangs until he reached the crest. He was still in 
the forest, but it was lighter here, the trees spaced 


farther apart. He breathed the damp air, wondering 
which way to head. Along the ridge or down the far 
side? Cat scent touched his tongue. Jom, not from a 
Clan. His heart lurched. Could it be Sparrow? 

Had he found him already? Perhaps this wood was 
where the rogues holed up for leaf-bare, sheltering like 
prey beneath the branches. Talltail leaned down and 
sniffed the ground. Paws had passed this way. He 
walked slowly forward, muzzle close to the ground. 
The scent trail headed down the far slope and 
disappeared beneath brambles. Screwing up his eyes 
against the thorns, Talltail followed it. He ignored the 
prickles scraping his spine as he wriggled underneath, 
and eventually emerged onto boggy ground where his 
paws sank into cold mud. The scent trail was fresher 
here. He was gaining ground. 

Talltail’s thoughts whirled. Sparrow was at the end 
of this track. He knew it. He imagined sighting the 
rogue’s short, brown fur between the trees and 
creeping silently up behind him. He swallowed back a 
growl as he pictured plunging his claws deep into 
Sparrow’s flesh. His pelt spiked with excitement and 
he hurried forward, darting over the mud as easily as 


crossing grass. Bracken blocked his path but he 
pushed through, ears flattening as the stench of tom led 
him forward. As he weaved through the tawny stems, 
he spotted movement ahead. 

Sparrow! Fur flashed behind a bush. I’ve got you! 
Triumph surged through his paws. He broke into a run. 
With a hiss, he skidded around the bush and sprang. 
He landed a whisker from the tom, snarling. “You 
thought you’d gotten away—” 

He stopped, his eyes bulging with surprise. 

A shocked gray tom stared back at him, blinking. 
“What in the stars are you doing?” 

Talltail backed away. “I—I thought you were 
someone else,” he stammered. He smelled fear-scent 
on the tom and sheathed his claws. “I wasn’t going to 

“I hope not!” The tom straightened up and Talltail 
realized how scrawny he was. His pelt was clumped in 
sticky knots as though he hardly washed. Was this a 
kittypet? Talltail knew they were lazy, but too lazy to 
wash? 

The tom glared at him. “Who did you think I was?” 

“Just another cat,” Talltail mumbled. 


“Not a friend, I guess.” 

“Not exactly. Someone I used to know.” 

The tom opened his mouth, tasting Talltail’s scent. 
“You smell of Clan,” he grunted. “Were you looking for 
one of your own?” Talltail shook his head. “Good.” 
The tom sat down and whisked his tail over his paws. 
“One Clan cat is bad enough.” He narrowed his eyes. 
“What are you doing out here?” He snorted. “Don’t 
answer. I don’t want to know.” 

‘T’m looking for some rogues. I really need to find 
them.” 

The tom rolled his eyes. “I said don t answer.” He 
sighed heavily. “What rogues?” 

“They used to visit us every greenleaf,” Talltail told 
him. 

“You’re a moor cat, right?” The tom’s nose was 
twitching. “I can smell the heather on you.” He 
glanced between the trees. “I once knew some cats 
who spent time on the moor.” 

“Was one of them brown?” Talltail leaned forward. 

“T don’t remember,” the tom answered. 

“Did they travel in a group? A black-and-white one, 
and a ginger one, and a gray tom with a ruffled pelt?” 


Talltail’s paws pricked. 

“Slow down, Clan cat,” the tom muttered. “I’m not 
used to answering questions.” 

Talltail took a breath. This old cat wasn’t going to be 
rushed. He might not share anything if Talltail annoyed 
him. “T just wondered if you’d seen them recently,” he 
meowed. 

“Might have.” 

Talltail curled his claws into the earth. “This moon? 
Last moon?” 

The tom looked thoughtful. “Last moon,” he grunted 
eventually. “Near a Nofur’s den.” 

“Which den?” Talltail had seen countless Twoleg 
dens from Outlook Rock. 

“Sun-up way. Dark gray,” the tom told him. “Bigger 
than some. It has a spike sticking up at one end like a 
tail.” 

Talltail frowned, trying to remember if he’d seen a 
den like that. 

“Don’t go inside,” the tom warned. “It’s colder than 
death and when the Twoleg shuts the door, there’s no 
way out.” The thought seemed to alarm him. He got to 
his paws, his tail quivering. “I was trapped there once 


for three sun-ups. Glad they had a water-pool.” 

Talltail’s mind was whirling. Gray den with a spike. 
He began to head away. 

“Where are you going?” the tom called after him. 
“Do you want to share prey? I hear Clan cats are good 
hunters.” 

Talltail called over his shoulder. “I can’t stop. I have 
to find this cat.” His heart raced and he broke into a 
run, swerving clumsily between the trees. 

I’m on your trail, Sparrow. You'd better start 
sleeping with one eye open! 





Sun-up way. Talltail plunged down the hillside. 
Thats past ShadowClan territory. He scrambled 
past a hawthorn, skidding as the slope steepened. 
Bracken slowed him down, dragging at his paws. He 
pushed through it, relieved that the slope was flattening 


out, and paused at the bottom to taste the air. Ahead of 
him the trees were thinning and light showed beyond 
them. Talltail hurried on, relaxing as he reached the 
edge of the woods and padded out onto grass. The 
drizzle had turned to rain and he narrowed his eyes. 
He’d patrolled the moor many times in worse rain than 
this. Keeping low, he crossed the grass, ignoring the 
water dripping from his whiskers. A familiar scent 
touched his nose. He had reached the Thunderpath. 

He slowed, pelt pricking. He knew he had to cross 
the Thunderpath, but that would put him directly into 
ShadowClan territory, which might be more dangerous 
than anything that lay beyond. He shook the rain from 
his pelt and approached the Thunderpath. It was 
empty. Sniffing the stone, he smelled the stale scent of 
monsters. Nothing had passed for a while. He glanced 
both ways to make sure there were no monsters lying 
in wait, then raced across. 

The stench of the ShadowClan border hit him before 
he was halfway across. Brambles, nettles, and ferns 
spilled from the thick wall of pine trees in front of him. 
The shadow beyond them was so dark that he couldn’t 
see in. Heart quickening, Talltail scanned the gloom for 


flashing eyes. Was a ShadowClan patrol watching? He 
ducked down and crept into the grass at the edge of 
the Thunderpath. There was no way he could go 
straight across the territory. ShadowClan warriors 
wouldn’t let him escape with his fur intact. He’d have 
to follow the scent line, being careful not to cross it and 
praying that he didn’t bump into any patrols that 
objected to him straying so close. 

He turned and started to push his way through the 
grass under the trees. Several monsters roared past in 
a herd, spraying him with muddy water. Talltail hissed 
and pressed closer to the tree trunks, swerving away 
again when the reek of ShadowClan scent marks stung 
his nose. He trekked on, soaked right through his fur 
by the dripping grass stems. Eventually the pines began 
to thin beside him, replaced by rough scrub, shriveled 
bushes that rattled their bare branches in the wind. A 
smaller Thunderpath appeared ahead of him, leading 
away from the moor and curving around the top of 
ShadowClan territory. Talltail followed the new 
Thunderpath, hoping the grass was enough to hide him 
as the scrubby bushes gave way to an open stretch of 
marsh. 


He walked faster, feeling vulnerable and cold. The 
scent of ShadowClan was overlaid with something 
stronger here: a sour, unfamiliar smell that made 
Talltail’s belly churn. He shook rain from his whiskers 
and opened his mouth. He shut it quickly as a putrid 
stench swamped his tongue. It smelled like death and 
rot and stagnant water. Peering through the rain, he 
saw a wall of woven silver vines surrounding several 
huge, stinking lumps, like the backs of hunched beasts 
lying down. Queasy at the stink rolling from the heap, 
Talltail padded closer. Could this be the Carrionplace? 
He’d heard ShadowClan apprentices boasting about 
catching rats where Twolegs dumped their waste. His 
nose wrinkled. Who would want to eat fresh-kill from 
such a foul-smelling place? 

The grass vanished as he drew level with the silver 
vines, and Talltail ran across the stretch of hard, gray 
stone until he reached the safety of a ditch. He 
scrambled down into the  thick-stemmed plants, 
ignoring the greasy, black water that clung to his belly 
fur and pushing his way through until the stench of 
Carrionplace faded behind him. Talltail climbed out, 
shaking filthy droplets from his pelt. The rain hardened 


into hail. It stung his ears and his nose, bouncing off 
the Thunderpath and bombarding him until he could 
hardly see. Through narrowed eyes, he looked for 
shelter. Pine trees clustered ahead, right on the edge of 
the Thunderpath. Talltail broke into a run, nostrils 
twitching. He was still close to the ShadowClan 
border. 

He ducked in among the pines, eyes lighting up 
when he spotted a hole in a gnarled trunk. He dug his 
claws into the cracked bark and hauled himself up until 
he was high enough to stick his head into the hole. 
Inside, leaf litter lined a crooked scoop in the wood. 
Talltail scrambled inside, scenting the stale smell of 
prey. What creature had sheltered here? 

He didn’t care. He was just glad to be out of the 
hail. He shook out his pelt and sat down. Hailstones 
cracked outside. The wind roared above. Talltail 
looked up and saw a small circle of sky where the 
trunk opened at the top. A hailstone bounced down and 
landed on his nose. He flinched and curled into the dry 
leaves. Flattening his ears against the spattering hail, 
he tucked his nose under his paw. 

He must have slept, because voices woke him. 


Heart lurching, Talltail jerked forward and peered out 
from the tree. The hail had stopped and dark gray-and- 
brown pelts were weaving around the bottom of the 
trunk. The scent of ShadowClan filled the air. Talltail 
dodged back, fur bristling. A patrol! Had he crossed 
the border? He jumped to his paws and desperately 
scanned his cramped shelter. He was trapped! 

“The scents are fresh.” He heard a ShadowClan 
warrior snarl. “He must still be here somewhere.” 

Claws scrabbled outside the trunk. “There’s a hole 
up there.” 

“Let’s look.” 

Talltail froze. They’d think he was a spy. They’d 
haul him in front of Cedarstar. At the very best, he’d 
be sent back to WindClan. At the worst . . . He pushed 
away the thought and glanced up at the tiny circle of 
light at the top of the tree. There was a way out—if he 
could reach it. Digging his claws into the soft wood, he 
began to haul himself up. He braced his hind legs 
against the other side of the trunk and wedged himself 
high above the nest. There was a scraping noise 
outside and he glanced down. 

A mottled tabby head poked in and sniffed the 


leaves. “They’re still warm,” he growled. 

Talltail held his breath. Please, dont look up! 

The head ducked back out. Fast as a squirrel, Talltail 
scrabbled his way farther up the tree trunk. Above his 
head, the circle of light grew until he could feel fresh 
air washing over him. His claws screamed with pain as 
he dragged himself up the last tail-length. Leaves 
rustled below as a ShadowClan warrior jumped into 
the hollow and began sniffing at the nest. “Are you 
sure you can’t see him?” he called out to his 
Clanmates. 

Talltail grabbed for the top of the trunk and hauled 
himself over the rim. Shards of bark showered down 
the shaft beneath him. He scrambled onto a crooked, 
lightning-blasted branch. Rotten with age, it creaked 
beneath his weight. He clung to it, flattening himself 
against the wood, praying it was wide enough to shield 
him from the gaze of the cats below. 

“T heard something.” 

“Tt must be a squirrel.” 

“Smells like a tom.” 

“A cat couldn’t climb that high.” 

“Do you recognize the scent?” 


“Stagnant water and earth. Too rank for a Clan 
cat.” 

Talltail prickled with indignation. 

“Tt could be one of those rogues we chased off last 
moon.” 

“Those cats that smelled like WindClan? Why would 
they come back? I clawed that she-cat’s ears until she 
shrieked!” 

He pricked his ears. The rogues came this way! He 
was still on Sparrow’s trail. A surge of hope sliced 
through his terror. 

“Let’s check the Thunderpath.” The ShadowClan 
watrior’s mew echoed up the hollow trunk. “He’s 
obviously not in here anymore.” 

Talltail clung to the branch, his heart pounding so 
hard that he feared it was ringing through the wood. 
Gingerly he peered down. Four warriors searched far 
below, picking their way among the tangled roots of the 
pine, sniffing every scent, their pelts bristling. Talltail’s 
legs began to ache, his claws throbbing with the effort 
of clinging on. Go away! He willed the patrol to move 
on, but they circled the trees again and again, tails 
flicking with anger. 


At last one of the warriors wandered toward the 
open grass. “The trail comes from this way.” 

“Let’s track it.” The mottled warrior padded after 
him. 

Talltail watched as one by one the warriors headed 
away from the trees. They trekked across the grass, 
following his trail back along the Thunderpath. As soon 
as they were out of sight, he scrambled down the tree, 
feeling a rush of relief as his paws touched solid earth. 
Despite the cramp tightening his muscles, he ran fast 
as a rabbit, breaking through the scent line he hadn’t 
noticed in his rush to shelter among the trees, and 
diving across the narrow Thunderpath into a wall of 
thick bushes. 

He slowed, catching his breath. Not much farther 
on, the bushes gave way to dense woodland. Oak and 
ash pushed up through patches of bramble. The cloudy 
sky showed through their bare branches. Talltail tasted 
the air. There were no Clan scents here. Bracken 
crowded between the trunks and hawthorn snagged his 
pelt, but he felt safe for the first time in a long while. 
As he pushed on, shadows darkened around him. The 
sun must be sinking. How could he tell where it was 


when he was trapped in all these trees? Tail drooping, 
Talltail padded to a halt. It was pointless trying to guess 
which way to go. He should wait till dawn and head 
for sun-up. 

He pushed past a clump of shriveled ferns and 
found himself in a small clearing ringed by trees. There 
wasn’t enough sky to navigate by, but at least he 
wasn’t being smothered by branches. He curled 
among the jutting roots of the nearest oak. His belly 
growled, but he was too tired to hunt. Instead he laid 
his chin on his paws and closed his eyes. 

“Talltail!” ~Sandgorse’s mew echoed through the 
dark. “Listen!” 

“What is it?” Talltail looked wildly around, but all he 
could see was the blackness of shadow, washed with 
scents of trees. 

“Talltail!” 

“Sandgorse!” Talltail strained to hear a reply but the 
wind grew stronger and lashed the branches above 
him, drowning out every other sound. “Sandgorse?” 
Talltail woke with a start. Sunlight was flashing 
between the tree trunks and the air was stil. He had 
been dreaming—but why hadn’t Sandgorse been able 


to speak to him? His belly twisted with hunger and he 
Jumped to his paws. He would have to hope that 
Sandgorse visited him in his dreams again. Now it was 
time to get moving, to put some distance between him 
and ShadowClan. 

Above his head the small patch of visible sky was 
pale blue, glowing at one edge with gold-pink beams of 
light. Sun-up! Talltail whirled around until he was 
facing the rays from the rising sun. At last he knew 
which way to go. Ignoring his rumbling belly, he pushed 
through bracken and ducked under a bramble. A 
trailing branch caught his paw and he tripped, cursing 
as pain shot through his leg. Limping, he hurried on, but 
after a few paces he stubbed another paw on a jutting 
root, and winced as thorns stabbed his pelt. How did 
forest cats get anywhere? 

Birds twittered in the branches, making his belly 
growl more loudly. He had to find food. He needed to 
be strong when he caught up with Sparrow. He paused 
and tasted the air. Mouse. Talltail crouched down and 
scanned the undergrowth. A dead leaf trembled at the 
bottom of a bramble. Talltail saw a flash of brown fur 
and pounced. The mouse shot away. Talltail darted 


after it, squeezing beneath the thorny branches. He 
exploded from the other side of the bush to see the 
mouse scuttle over the roots of a tree and race for the 
safety of a hawthorn bush. 

Talltail peered through the spiky branches. He could 
see the mouse trembling beside the stem, and reached 
in with a paw. He patted the ground, his claws 
stretched as he tried to reach the tiny creature. It 
hurtled away and skittered out the other side of the 
bush. Talltail dodged around, his paws skidding on 
leaves. He glimpsed the mouse as it scuttled into a 
swathe of bracken, and plunged in after it. Crashing 
through the stems, he zigzagged after it, trying to slam 
his paws down on the blur of brown fur, first one way, 
then another, always just a moment too late. 

Dumb mouse! He cursed under his breath as it 
disappeared through a hole in a high, wooden barrier. 
The scent of it filled his nose. Hungrily Talltail leaped 
onto the top of the wood. Ahead, red Twoleg dens 
blocked his view. Crowded together, with sharp edges, 
they seemed to glower at him through big, square eyes. 
Talltail blinked at them, feeling the fur rise along his 
spine. 


A square patch of grass lay between him and the 
closest den. More wooden walls divided the stretch of 
land behind the dens into a row of tiny meadows. 
Talltail scanned the grass for the mouse. No sign. He 
padded along the top of the narrow wall, leaping the 
thick stalk that blocked the way to the next and peering 
into the little meadow. The mouse wasn’t there either. 
Talltail curled his lip. He’d have caught that mouse on 
the moor. No dumb bushes or wooden walls to get in 
his way. 

Something moved in a clump of wilting leaves 
below. His nose twitched. He could smell the mouse 
and see its brown back cowering under a leaf. Fixing 
his gaze on its pelt, he jumped down, his paws sinking 
into wet earth. He darted forward and grabbed the 
mouse in his teeth, killing it with a bite. Ravenous, he 
began to eat. Thank you, StarClan! The moist, fatty 
flesh tasted great. He chewed loudly, relishing the 
flavor. As he swallowed the last mouthful, a growl 
rumbled behind him. 

Dog! 





Talltail whirled around. A massive dog loomed over 
him, teeth glistening, eyes sparking with rage. 

It lunged, and at the same instant Talltail ducked. 
Jaws snapped at his shoulder, tugging out fur. 
Screeching with pain, Talltail raced for the fence and 


leaped onto it, dropping down the other side. A narrow 
passage ran beside the red-stone den. Talltail charged 
along it, claws spraying grit behind him. Another tall, 
wooden fence blocked the end, but he scaled it and 
Jumped down from the top. 

A Thunderpath lay in front of him with a monster 
roaring along it. Talltail froze, pelt bushing. Behind him, 
the dog barked furiously. Could it get over the fence? 
I’m not waiting to find out! As soon as the monster 
had passed, Talltail fled across the Thunderpath. 
Dodging into a tiny gap between two stone dens, he 
raced through the bushes at the back, then hurtled past 
another den. Swerving onto a stone path that led 
between blank walls, he kept running, his breath 
coming in gasps. Shapes blurred around him as he ran. 
Monsters howled, endless fences blocked his path, but 
he kept dodging and jumping, refusing to give the dog a 
chance to catch him. 

Eventually, chest heaving, Talltail scrambled to a 
halt. He glanced over his shoulder. No sign of any dog. 
Red stone walls loomed over him on three sides. Blood 
welled on his shoulder where he’d lost fur. He limped 
toward a heap of stinking bundles that had been piled 


in the corner of the passage. It smelled like 
Carrionplace, but right now it looked like a place to 
shelter. Crouching behind it, he tried to catch his 
breath. 

Sunshine sliced between the walls, striping the 
middle of the passage. Talltail trembled, dazed and 
sore. Panic began to swirl in his belly. How will I ever 
find my way through Twolegplace, let alone find 
Sparrow? He lapped at the patch of raw flesh on his 
shoulder. If only Barkface were there with soothing 
herbs. You will have to hunt for yourself, heal 
yourself if you get hurt. There will be no one to 
share your victories. Or your defeats. Heatherstar’s 
words rang in his mind. J can do it, he told himself. 

A clang made him freeze. He jerked up his head, 
pelt bristling. The noise came from around the corner. 
Another crash rang through the air. Talltail began to 
back away. A dog yelped excitedly. Talltail felt the fur 
rise along his spine. Had it tracked him here? 

A cat screeched in alarm. It was in trouble. 

Leave it. Talltail stared in the direction of the noise, 
his mind whirlng. J can t! He hadn’t trained to be a 
warrior to leave other cats in danger! He raced 


forward and swung around the corner at the end. A 
ginger tom was cowering in the corner of a walled 
dead end, his green eyes wide with alarm. A brown- 
and-white dog the size of a badger barked in his face 
while the tom swung out in a frenzy with his claws. 

A different dog! Twolegplace was swarming with 
them. But this time Talltail wasn’t going to run. A cat 
was in trouble. 

Talltail focused his mind. There was rage in the 
tom’s eyes, as if all he needed was a bit of luck for the 
battle to go his way. Talltail sprang onto the wall and 
ran along it until he was level with the dog. He stopped 
beside the dog, eyeing its back, then unsheathed his 
claws and jumped. He landed squarely on the dog’s 
shoulders, ripping into its flesh. As the dog bucked and 
yelped beneath Talltail, the ginger tom reared up and 
swiped its muzzle. Talltail leaped down, landing beside 
the tom. Watching his paw movements from the corner 
of his eye, Talltail matched them swipe for swipe. The 
dog began to back away, its eyes clouding with 
confusion, then with fear. It snapped at the ginger cat 
once more, then yelped with frustration, turned, and 
fled. 


Talltail dropped onto all fours. The tom collapsed 
beside him, flanks heaving. 

“Are you okay?” Talltail sniffed the other cat’s pelt. 
No blood scent. 

The tom lifted his head. “I’m just catching my 
breath.” 

“Did it bite you?” 

“Didn’t get close enough.” The tom heaved himself 
to his paws, staggering a little as his forepaw buckled 
beneath him. Talltail glanced at it. “Just a sprain,” the 
tom told him. “I turned it on a stone while I was 
running.” He stared at Talltail. “Thanks, by the way. I 
thought I was a goner.” 

Talltail stared at him. “Goner?” 

“Dog food,” the tom explained. “Dead.” 

“You shouldn’t have let yourself get chased into a 
corner,” Talltail told him bluntly. 

“You think?” 

Talltail tucked his hindquarters under him, ready to 
spring back up onto the wall and leave. It was starting 
to rain and he needed to find somewhere to shelter for 
the night. 

“What’s your name?” the ginger tom called. “I’m 


Jake.” 

‘Tm Talltail”’ He hopped up onto the wall. “You 
should get out of here. The dog might come back.” 

“You’re a Clan cat, aren’t you?” Jake blinked up at 
him. “From over the fences? I’ve always wondered 
about the wild cats who live in the woods.” 

“That’s ThunderClan.” Talltail fluffed out his fur 
against the rain. 

“So you’re a ThunderClan cat.” 

“ThunderClan?” Talltail felt a flicker of annoyance. 
“No way! There’s more than one Clan.” 

“Really?” Jake’s eyes bulged. 

“I have to go.” I’m not here to make friends. “Get 
away from here before the dog—” 

“comes back. I know. Well, thanks for helping me 
out.” 

“Be more careful in the future.” Talltail sprang 
down the other side of the wall into another tiny 
meadow that backed onto a red-stone den. This 
meadow had shrubs growing around the edge. A hedge 
ran along one side and Talltail hurried across the grass 
and squeezed through, popping out into another little 
green square. He padded over it, glancing warily at the 





33 


Twoleg den at the end, then tasting the air for dogs. 
The rain was falling heavily now, drenching his pelt. 
He scrambled over the far fence mto an identical 
space. Talltail wondered why Twolegs made so many 
barriers. Didn’t they have scent marks? 

Kittypet scent touched his nose as he landed on 
another patch of wet grass. A ginger-and-black she- 
cat was sheltering under a bush near the Twoleg den. 
Perhaps she could give him a clue if he was headed in 
the right direction. He padded toward her, blinking 
calmly at her to reassure her. 

She huddled deeper under the bush, her pelt bristling, 
her eyes wide with alarm. 

“T only want to ask you a question,” Talltail called. 

She stared at him. “My Twolegs will be back in a 
moment. They’ll chase you off.” She lifted her muzzle 
bravely. 

Talltail stopped a tail-length from the bush. “Before 
they do, can you tell me if you’ve seen any rogues 
around here recently?” 

“Only you.” The she-cat backed away. 

Talltail gazed at her wearily. “I’m a Clan cat.” 

“A Clan cat?” Her pelt spiked. “That’s worse!” 


Eyes sparking with terror, she scrabbled from the bush 
and hared toward the fence, leaping over it and 
disappearing. 

Talltail shook out his pelt. He was tired and hungry 
and had no idea if he was getting any closer to the 
rogues. He didn’t know if he would ever find his way 
out of this forest of Twoleg dens. And his belly was 
growling again. He had to find food. He hurried 
through the rain and leaped the next wall. A small 
wooden den sat at one end of the bushy clearing. It 
looked deserted, too small for Twolegs to live in, too 
ramshackle for pampered kittypets. A good place for 
prey to hide. He stalked toward it, searching the sides 
for a gap. There was a small hole at one corner. The 
edge was ragged. Small teeth had chewed tt. 

Rat? He’d never eaten rat. But it was food. He 
crept into the shadowy den, his nose wrinkling as 
pungent smells wreathed around him. He swallowed 
his rising queasiness. They were just scents. They 
couldn’t hurt him. He slunk around the pieces of wood 
that littered the den floor, sniffing for prey and 
wondering if he’d even smell it through the stink. He 
blinked in the gloom. Something was lying on the 


ground in the corner. Talltail padded toward it, nose 
twitching. The soft, dead body of a rat showed in the 
half light. Someone had left prey behind. 

Dumb kittypets. What was the point of catching 
prey if you didn’t eat it? He crouched beside the rat 
and took a bite. It was so fresh, it was still warm. 
There was a sharp taste to its flesh, barely detectible 
over the thick scents swirling around the shed. 
Twolegplace rats must taste different. Hungrily 
Talltail took another bite. His belly heaved. 7 have to 
eat. I have to stay strong. 

He forced himself to keep chewing despite the taste, 
swallowing until every morsel was gone. Relieved, he 
licked his lips, thinking longingly of fresh moor rabbit. 
The weight in his belly made him sleepy. He curled 
down onto the hard floor and closed his eyes, flattening 
his ears against the thundering of the rain. It might 
stink in here, but at least it was dry. Tucking his nose 
under his paw, he tried to ignore the tiny jabs in his 
belly. J ate too fast. He curled up tighter and let sleep 
enfold him. 





Talltails belly was gripped in vicious jaws with teeth 
that bit through fur, skin, muscle. Whats happening? 
He screeched in agony and fought to get free. He 
woke with a gasp, staring into the shadows that filled 
the wooden den. The pain in his belly didn’t disappear. 


It hardened, making him writhe. Jerking, he vomited. 
He hauled himself to his paws and dragged himself 
from the den. So thirsty! 

Thoughts clouded with pain, he staggered across the 
wet grass, lapping at the raindrops until he reached a 
puddle. He drank desperately, but as soon as the water 
hit his belly, another painful spasm seized him. He 
vomited again, unable to stop himself. But the 
tormenting thirst was still there, as if all the water in 
the world would not quench the fire inside him. 
Terrified, Talltail crouched on the wet grass and sank 
his claws into the earth. StarClan, help me! He let out 
a long desperate moan. 

“Talltail?” A voice sounded from somewhere above 
him. 

Had Sandgorse come to take him to StarClan? 
Talltail looked up weakly, then opened his mouth to 
release a thin stream of bile. Paws landed on the grass 
beside him. A muzzle reached toward his. He was 
dimly aware of warm breath bathing his nose. 

“You ate that rat, didn’t you?” The shocked mew 
rang in his ear. “Didn’t you realize it was poisoned? I 
didn’t think Clan cats would be so dumb!” 


Jake. Talltail recognized the voice and saw ginger 
fur, pale in the moonlight. “Help me,” he rasped. 

“Wait here.” Jake backed away and vanished. 

Talltail was too weak to move. His body twitched, 
helpless with pain; he had no power to resist the 
spasms. Vomit dribbled from his mouth, jerked up by 
another convulsion. Jf I die, I'll see Sandgorse. 
Through his haze of pain, a pale light gleamed. I’m 
sorry I didnt avenge your death. Grief flooded him. 
He’d failed his father again. 

He heard murmuring. It had the rumbling thickness 
of Twoleg mewling. Am I dreaming? A huge, blurry 
shape loomed out of the darkness. Whats 
happening? Terror gripped him through the fog of 
pain. He tried to struggle. J have to escape. Vast, 
naked paws lifted him up. Talltail felt the ground fall 
away as he was swooped into the air. Something warm 
and yielding enfolded him, similar to the sheepswool he 
had used to line his nest so long ago. Then he was 
bouncing along, wrapped in stifling softness. Shapes 
whirled around him and a loud slam pierced his ear fur. 
He coughed up phlegm, his belly empty. 

A deep, throbbing noise shook the air around him. 


Monster! Somewhere deep in Talltail’s mind, fear tried 
to stir, but he didn’t even have enough strength to be 
scared. Pain twisted his belly tighter and tighter until he 
was blind to everything but agony. 


Talltail was woken by a sharp scent that reminded 
him of pine trees. Was he still inside the hollow trunk, 
trapped by a ShadowClan patrol? No, this smell was 
different somehow, and he was lying on a bed of 
sheepswool that definitely hadn’t been inside that tree 
trunk. He forced open his eyes. They were sticky with 
sleep and he had to blink to clear the fuzziness from his 
vision. Wherever he was, it was filled with dark gray 
shadows. Talltail pushed himself to his paws. His belly 
felt crushed, but the jerking agony had gone and he 
didn’t feel sick or thirsty anymore. He peered through 
the darkness and realized that there were smooth, 
sheer walls a muzzle-length away on every side of 
him. I’m trapped! Panic made his heart beat faster at 
the same time as his eyes adjusted to the light and he 
began to see more clearly. He was in a short tunnel 
with a square of silver mesh blocking the way to a pale 
gleam that was seeping through one end. Talltail 


yowled, terror making his belly twist again and 
awakening the pain. 

“It’s okay!” A familiar mew sounded through the 
mesh. “You’re safe, I promise.” 

Jake! “Where am I?” 

“You’re in my home. I fetched my housefolk after I 
found you,” Jake explained. “I had to fake a bellyache 
to get him to follow me. I knew he’d help you when he 
saw how sick you were.” 

Talltail pressed his muzzle against the mesh. “Let 
me out.” 

“I can’t.” Jake’s ginger face stared back at him, 
eyes round with sympathy. “But it’s okay. You’re in the 
vet-basket.” 

Talltail swallowed. “Vet-basket?” 

“It’s a cage the housefolk use to carry me to the 
vet,” Jake explained. “I know you hate it. I hate it too, 
but my housefolk will let you out soon.” 

“What’s a vet?” Talltail could feel his legs buckling 
from the strangeness of everything. 

“The no-fur that cured you of the poison.” 

“No-fur? You mean a Twoleg cured me?” Talltail’s 
mouth hung open. “Like a medicine cat?” 


Jake stared blankly at him. “I guess. It saved your 
life.” 

Talltail bristled. Why would a Twoleg save a cat’s 
life? He tried to see through the mesh, but Jake was 
blocking his view. He could glimpse a roof above, 
white walls with clear, empty squares where he could 
see treetops and sky outside and, some way below 
his . . . his vet-basket, a floor of shiny, white stone. 
The vet-basket seemed to be balanced on a ledge 
halfway up one wall. 

“So this is your den?” Talltail croaked. 

“You could call it that,’ Jake meowed. “It’s where I 
live with my housefolk. This part is my eating room.” 

Huge paw steps clumped behind Jake and he 
hopped out of the way. A moment later, a Twoleg face 
peered through the mesh at Talltail. Talltail’s heart 
lurched. The wide, pink face crinkled as the Twoleg 
rumbled through the mesh. Then the mesh swung open 
and the Twoleg thrust in a huge, pink paw. Talltail 
hissed and pressed himself back against the end of the 
basket. He unsheathed his claws, ready to rake the 
Twoleg if it came too close. The paw was holding a 
shallow stone, scooped out and filled with water. The 


Twoleg placed it on the soft floor of the basket, then 
withdrew his paw and shut the mesh. Talltail waited 
for the Twoleg to clump away, then crept forward and 
sniffed the water. It smelled sour, not like spring water. 

“It’s okay.” Jake had jumped in front of the mesh 
again. “You can drink it.” 

“Tt smells funny.” 

“It’s from the tap,” Jake told him. “It’s not as nice 
as rainwater but it won’t harm you.” 

Talltail lapped up a mouthful, wrinkling his nose. He 
tensed as it hit his stomach, frightened it would hurt 
again, but his belly only gurgled. “How long before 
your Twoleg lets me go?” 

“My housefolk, you mean? I guess he wants to 
make sure you’re better,” Jake told him. 

Talltail remembered how Hawkheart had made him 
stay in his nest when he was injured. Twolegs must do 
the same. 

“T’m going out,” Jake told him suddenly. 

“Where?” 

“Just out.” 

Dont leave me on my own! Talltail blinked as Jake 
Jumped from the ledge onto the shiny, white floor, then 


pushed a flap in the wall and wriggled through. Fear 
began to spiral in Talltail’s tender belly. Would he ever 
get out of here? The rogues would be traveling farther 
and farther away while he was trapped. He edged into 
the shadow at the end of the basket and sat down 
stiffly, ashamed for wishing that Jake would come 
back. Be brave! You left your Clan. You dont need 
anyone! 

After what felt like a whole moon, Jake dived 
through the flap. The Twoleg stomped into the eating 
room at the same moment and stroked him. Jake 
arched his back and lifted his tail, purring as the 
Twoleg showered tiny brown pebbles into a hollow 
stone on the floor. Jake stuck his nose in and ate. 
Talltail’s nose wrinkled as he picked up the scent of 
Jake’s food. He’d heard the elders talk about kittypet 
slop, but he never imagined he would see it close up. 
Then again, he’d never imagined he’d find himself 
inside a Twoleg den, with only a kittypet for company. 

The Twoleg face loomed at the mesh again. Talltail 
hissed in surprise. The Twoleg purred and dropped a 
few brown pebbles through the mesh. Talltail hissed 
once more and the Twoleg clumped away. Talltail 


crept forward and sniffed the pebbles. They smelled a 
little bit like prey, but different, like the water. Why did 
Twolegs add weird scents to everything? Didn’t they 
like ordinary tastes and smells? 

“You can eat it, you know.” Jake had hopped onto 
the ledge and was peering through the mesh. 

Talltail took another sniff. 

“It’s not poisoned. It’s the same stuff they give me,” 
Jake promised. He sat back on his haunches and 
began to wash his belly. 

Gingerly Talltail picked up a pebble between his 
teeth and bit down on it. The flavor was sharper than 
prey, but not dreadful. He ate another pellet and waited 
to see what his belly felt like. It twinged a little but he 
didn’t feel sick. He lapped up the rest and listened to 
his belly growl appreciatively. 

Talltail lifted his head as the Twoleg came back into 
the eating room. He arched his back as the mesh 
opened again, and stared at the gap, waiting for a 
Twoleg paw to appear. Nothing happened. 

“You can come out,” Jake mewed. 

Warily Talltail crept to the front of the basket and 
peered out. The Twoleg was standing a few tail- 


lengths away. Jake jumped off the ledge and began 
winding around its legs, purring. The Twoleg bent 
down and ran its hairless paw over Jake’s fur. Talltail 
shuddered. Then he spotted the flap Jake had leaped 
through earlier. This was his chance to escape! 
Darting forward, he jumped down from the ledge, his 
paws splaying as he hit the slippery floor. He struggled 
to his paws, his legs trembling, and scrambled 
unsteadily toward the flap. 

Pain shot through his muzzle as he hit the unmoving 
flap head-on. He bounced off it like a kit running into a 
stone. Confused and hot with shame, he backed away. 
“Tt didn’t open!” he hissed at Jake. 

“My housefolk locked it before he let you out of the 
basket.” 

The Twoleg was bending toward Talltail. “Get 
away!” Talltail spat, swiping at its dangling paw with 
his claws. 

In a flash, Jake was in front of him, shielding his 
Twoleg. “Leave him alone!” he snarled. “He saved 
your life!” 

Talltail took a step back, bewildered. Twolegs saving 
cats? The elders never told any stories about that. 


“Just don’t let him touch me!” he growled. 

The Twoleg’s shoulders slumped. It turned and 
pushed through a large sideways flap in the other wall 
and closed it behind. Talltail’s belly clenched. He 
looked helplessly at Jake’s locked flap. “I want to 
make dirt.” 

Jake nodded toward a bright red, shallow nest filled 
with gray grit. “Use that.” 

“Make dirt inside a den?” Didn’t kittypets have any 
shame? 

“We all do it sometimes,” Jake reassured him. 

Talltail padded to the hard-edged nest, climbed over 
the edge, and stood on the grit. Kicking a hole, he 
made dirt and covered it, uncomfortably conscious that 
Jake was sitting only a few taillengths away. He 
climbed out again and paced the edges of the room. 
“Now what?” 

“You have to rest,” Jake told him. 

Talltail’s legs still felt shaky, but he didn’t want to 
rest. How could he relax when he was a prisoner in a 
Twoleg den? He kept pacing, the ache in his belly 
nagging but not enough to stop him from moving. He 
gazed at the sky through the clear parts of the wall. It 


was growing dark. He’d wasted a whole day. 

Every so often, the Twoleg returned to pour food 
and water or just to look at Talltail. Talltail returned its 
stare with a hiss and kept pacing. When the sky 
outside was finally black, the Twoleg brought in a big, 
soft shape and laid it on the floor. “My nest!” Jake 
mewed delightedly. 

Talltail narrowed his eyes. Nests were small and 
woven out of sticks and lined with moss. They weren’t 
bright red and the size of a half a den. 

Jake purred as he climbed into it and began 
pummeling the bottom. “You can sleep here too, if you 
like. There’s plenty of room, and it’s really soft.” 

Talltail looked up at the vet-basket on the ledge. He 
didn’t want to sleep in the tiny tunnel, but he didn’t 
want to sleep beside a kittypet either. He’d never get 
the flowery stench out of his pelt. “I’m not tired,” he 
lied. 

“You must be,” Jake told him. “I’m always tired 
after I’ve been to the vet.” He curled down into his 
nest. Talltail tried to catch a glimpse of Silverpelt in the 
night sky. Could StarClan see him here? But the clear 
square gaps just reflected the bright walls of the room. 


Anger surged through Talltail. He couldn’t even see 
outside now. “I have to get out of here!” 

“You will,’ Jake promised. “When you’re better.” 

I didnt leave the Clan just to get trapped 
somewhere else! Talltail scowled at Jake. “Your 
Twoleg is cruel.” 

“No, he’s not.” Jake stared at him, and the tip of his 
tail flicked. “He’s been nothing but kind to you.” 

“How can you stand being a kittypet?” Talltail 
wasn’t listening. “Eating weird food. Purring at a 
Twoleg like you’re kin.” He snorted with disgust. 

“He is like kin,’ Jake snapped back. “I’ve known 
him my whole life. He makes sure I’m warm and fed. 
And I sit with him and keep him company when he’s 
alone. We talk to each other.” 

“Talk?” Jake was clearly a rabbit-brain. 

Jake shrugged. “I don’t understand exactly what 
he’s saying, but I know what he means. I just say yes 
to everything. He seems to like that. And I’ve taught 
him the word for food. He tries to repeat it sometimes, 
but his accent is terrible.” 

Talltail could hardly believe what he was hearing. 
“You sound like you enjoy being a kittypet!” 


“Of course.” Jake went back to kneading his bed. 

“Then why do you spend so much time staring into 
the woods thinking about Clan cats?” Talltail shifted his 
paws. They were growing numb with cold on the shiny 
floor. 

Jake paused. “T guess I’m interested in how you live 
without housefolk, that’s all.” He tipped his head. “You 
said there was more than one Clan. How many?” 

“Three more.” 

“What’s yours called?” 

Talltail hardly heard him. His gaze had slid toward 
Jake’s nest. It looked soft. Far softer than the freezing 
stone. Warm, too. Shivering, he padded toward it. Jake 
shifted to give him room. “What’s your Clan called?” 
he repeated. 

Talltail stepped into the nest. “WindClan.” It felt 
fluffier beneath his paws than sheepswool. He sat 
down, secretly relishing the comfort. 

“Where do you live?” 

“On the moor.” Talltail crouched down and tucked 
his paws under him. “Below the moor is RiverClan. 
They live by a river and catch fish.” 

“How?” 


Talltail glanced at him. Jake was really dumb. “They 
swim.” 

“What’s the fourth Clan?” Jake started licking a 
paw and washing his face. 

“ShadowClan. They live in the pine trees beside 
ThunderClan. No one likes ShadowClan except 
ShadowClan.” 

Jake ran a paw over his ear. “So the rest of you like 
one another.” 

“No!” Talltail’s tail twitched. “If any other Clan 
crosses our border, we shred them.” Jake’s eyes 
widened. Talltail thought of Nightsky and Piketooth. 
“Okay, we don’t always shred them,” he relented. 
“But we’re supposed to stay on our own territory all 
the time.” He decided not to mention the Gatherings in 
case Jake got even more confused. 

“Why are you here, then?” Jake dropped his paw 
and stared at Talltail His green eyes glowed in the 
moonlight streaming through the clear patches of wall. 

Talltail looked down at the nest. “There’s something 
I have to do.” He didn’t say that he’d felt trapped 
living on the moor with his Clan, that he’d been burning 
with curiosity to find out what lay beyond the borders. 


From Jake’s point of view, his curiosity had led him to 
nothing but trouble. 

“Ts it a warrior mission?” Jake dropped his mew to a 
whisper. 

Talltail pricked his ears. A mission. He liked that 
idea. “Yes.” It was a warrior mission, wasn’t it? Or 
was it just his mission, and nothing to do with being a 
warrior at all? The thought unsettled him and he 
pushed it away quickly. He tucked his paws in tighter 
and closed his eyes. 

“I can’t believe I’m sleeping next to a warrior.” 
Jake’s soft mew was filled with awe. 

“I can’t believe I’m sleeping next to a kittypet,” 
Talltail grunted. What kind of warrior settled down to 
sleep in a kittypet nest? In a Twoleg den! A tired 
warrior. His head began to droop. 

“Talltail.” He seemed to hear Sandgorse’s mew far 
away. “You are a warrior. You always will be.” 

Am I? Talltail drifted into dreams. 





Pale dawn light filtered through the clear squares 
high up in the wall. Talltail lifted his head, blinking at 
the shiny, white room. He stretched, carefully testing 
his belly. It felt much better today, less crushed and 
tender. Talltail climbed quietly out of the nest, leaving 


Jake snoring in a huddle. There were fresh food 
pebbles in Jake’s stone. Talltail’s belly growled, but he 
wanted to see outside before he ate. He jumped onto 
the ledge, then hopped onto an even higher ledge 
beside a clear piece of wall. Talltail touched his nose to 
it. It was cold. /t must be ice. Talltail wondered why it 
didn’t melt when he breathed on it. He pushed at it 
with his forepaws, hoping it would crack, but it was too 
hard. Outside he could see frosty grass and whitened 
shrubs. They ran down to a smooth, wooden fence; 
trees crowded on the far side, sunlight flashing 
between their branches. 

Talltail’s heart ached. He should be out there, not 
trapped in this Twoleg den. He dropped back onto all 
fours and leaned his forehead on the transparent 
square. 

“The window doesn’t open,’ Jake mewed from 
below. He was sitting up in the nest, his pelt still ruffled 
from sleep. 

Window. Talltail looked back at the sheet of ice. 
Kittypets had funny names for things. 

Jake leaped up beside him. He nodded toward the 
fence at the end. “That’s where I keep watch for Clan 


cats.” 

Talltail pressed his muzzle against the glass. The 
forest seemed so close. “Is that ThunderClan 
territory?” he mewed. 

“Yes.” Jake blinked at him. “Didn’t you know?” 

Talltail shook out his pelt. “How would I?” he 
muttered. “I can’t smell any scents while I’m stuck in 
here.” 

“My housefolk will let you out soon.” 

Talltail growled. “How soon?” 

“Who knows?” Jake shrugged. “When he thinks 
you’re well enough, I suppose.” 

As he spoke the big flap in the wall opened and the 
Twoleg came in. It started rumbling at them, its eyes 
shining. It was holding something flat and floppy, like a 
blue pelt. Its gaze was fixed on Talltail. 

“What does it want now?” Talltail whispered to 
Jake. The Twoleg was heading toward him. Alarmed, 
he hopped off the window ledge and backed into a 
corner. He ducked as the Twoleg flapped the blue pelt 
toward him. He tried to escape but strong paws 
gripped him through the pelt and wrapped him up like a 
spider wrapping a fly. 


“Help!” Talltail thrashed, fear flaring though him. 
Still smothered in the blue pelt, he was bundled into the 
vet-basket. The mesh slammed shut behind him and 
the Twoleg peered through, rumbling. 

“I hate you!” Talltail hissed through the mesh. 

The Twoleg leaned down toward Jake’s flap. He 
flicked a little stick at one side and turned to Jake, 
making mewling noises. Jake seemed to understand, 
and jumped down from the window ledge and hopped 
through the flap. Talltail flung himself against the mesh, 
yowling. Rage surged beneath his pelt as he scrabbled 
at the hard, silver vines, trying to bend them far enough 
to slide his paw out. The Twoleg turned and mewled at 
him. 

Talltail hissed back. “PI shred you!” 

The Twoleg purred gently, then disappeared through 
its own flap. Breath coming in gasps, Talltail worked at 
the mesh. Surely it would give way eventually? His 
paws began to ache and his pelt grew hot. The silver 
vines didn’t even bend. At last, when his claws were 
bleeding and his pads felt as if they were on fire, 
Talltail flopped down onto the blue pelt and shoved his 
nose against the mesh. He stared at the flap in the wall 


until Jake returned. 

“Talltail?” Jake sprang up onto the ledge, smelling of 
wind and earth. 

Talltail didn’t move. 

“Are you okay?” Jake’s gaze clouded with worry. 
“Are you feeling ill again?” He pressed anxiously 
against the mesh. “Should I fetch my housefolk?” 

“No!” Talltail sat up and glared at him. “Just tell me 
how to get out of here!” 

“Why do you want to leave so much?” Jake looked 
around the room. “It’s not bad here. There’s plenty of 
food, and it’s warm.” 

“T’m not a kittypet,” Talltail growled. 

“I didn’t say you were. But you might as well get 
better properly. You nearly died.” 

Talltail flexed his claws. “I don’t have time to stay 
here any longer.” 

“What’s the rush?” 

“T’m on a mission, remember?” 

Jake’s eyes widened. “Of course! What’s the 
mission?” 

“T’m looking for someone.” 

“Who?” 


Talltail looked into Jake’s eager green eyes. How 
could he explain everything that had led him here? 

“Ts it really that important?” Jake prompted. 

Talltail dug his claws into the blue pelt. “More 
important than you could imagine. I have to find a 
rogue,” he meowed. “He killed my father.” 

Jake bristled. “Killed him?” 

“My father, Sandgorse, was the best tunneler in 
WindClan. But Sparrow made Sandgorse take him into 
a tunnel that wasn’t safe and when it collapsed, he ran 
away.” Talltail’s breath quickened as the familiar dark 
fury rose in his belly. “He just left my father to die.” 

“So you want revenge.” 

Talltail blinked. Jake understood! “I have to catch 
up with Sparrow before he travels too far for me to 
find. I’m already at least two moons behind him.” 

“Which means you really need to get out of here.” 

“Yes!” Talltail pushed helplessly at the silver mesh. 

Jake thought for a moment. “T can tell you how to 
escape, but on one condition.” 

Talltail narrowed his eyes. “What?” 

“You let me come with you.” 

“I thought you liked being a kittypet!” Talltail 


glanced down at the soft, red nest. “There’s none of 
those out there.” He flicked his tail toward the 
window. 

“I know that,” Jake told him. “I don’t want to join 
your Clan. But if you’re on a mission, I want to help.” 

Talltail tipped his head on one side. “Why?” 

“You need me.” 

‘No, I don’t!” Talltail bristled. 

Jake leaned forward. “Who ate a poisoned rat and 
nearly died?” His eyes flashed. “It seems to me like 
you could do with some help.” 

“But itll be dangerous,” Talltail meowed. “Why 
would you risk your life to help me?” 

Jake puffed out his chest. “Just because Pm a 
kittypet doesn’t mean I don’t have dreams of 
something else.” His eyes gleamed. “I don’t want to 
spend my whole life in the wild, but I’d like to explore 
beyond the fences, see how other cats live. I know 
every paw step of the housefolk-place and Pd like to 
go farther.” 

“Really?” Talltail’s ear twitched. Perhaps this 
kittypet could be useful. “Do you know how to get to 
the other side of the Twoleg dens?” 


Jake eyed him suspiciously. “Can I go with you?” 

“As far as the end of Twolegplace.” 

“Okay.” Jake sat back. “It’s a deal.” 

Talltail looked at him. “Now, how do I get out of 
here?” 

“It’s obvious, isn’t it?” Jake stood up, arching his 
back. 

“Tt is?” Talltail growled. 

Jake rolled his eyes. “Just be nice to my housefolk,” 
he mewed. “Act like you’re completely better, and well 
enough to be let out. Most of all, be friendly. You can 
get anything out of most housefolk by being friendly.” 

“Friendly?” Talltail narrowed his eyes. “How? You 
mean all that purring and winding around its legs?” 

“Exactly.” 

Talltail shuddered. “What if it tries to stroke me?” 
He imagined the Twoleg’s pink paw sliding along his 
pelt and shuddered. 

“Just purr. You might even enjoy it.” 

Talltail stiffened. If this was the only chance of 
getting out of here, he’d have to try. He watched the 
Twoleg flap, ears twitching uneasily. When it finally 
opened, his heart lurched. The Twoleg clattered in and 


shut the flap, then headed for the vet-basket. Talltail 
forced himself not to cower at the back when the 
Twoleg swung back the mesh. Instead he stepped out, 
purring. 

The Twoleg’s eyes lit up with surprise. It rumbled 
something, moving back as Talltail jumped to the floor. 
It stared down in amazement as Talltail weaved around 
its legs. 

Talltail tried to pretend that the Twoleg was a tree. 
I’m just leaving my scent. “That’s right,” Jake urged. 
“Don’t forget to keep purring.” 

Talltail realized he’d been concentrating so hard on 
winding around the Twoleg, he’d forgotten to purr. Did 
kittypets actually enjoy this or was it the only way to 
get what they wanted? He forced himself to purr 
loudly, his throat catching with the effort. The Twoleg 
rumbled and stepped carefully over Talltail before 
pouring food into Jake’s hollow stone. 

“Fat it,’ Jake ordered. “He’ll know you’re feeling 
better if you eat.” 

Talltail hurried to the stone and started gulping down 
food. He ate till his belly was bursting, then forced 
himself to look up at the Twoleg. He used kit eyes, 


pretending he was Wrenkit begging for a badger ride. 
“Please can I go outside?” he mewed in his most 
plaintive voice. 

The Twoleg’s face softened and it reached down 
with a paw. Talltail froze, forcing his claws to stay 
sheathed as the Twoleg ran its paw along his back. 
First kittypet smell, now Twoleg stench. Talltail gave 
his loudest purr, then padded toward Jake’s flap and 
gazed longingly up at the Twoleg. “Please?” 

The Twoleg mewed back. 

Jake snorted. “I told you it tries to speak our 
language.” 

“Actually, I think it just called me a furball.” A real 
purr rumbled in Talltail’s throat. 

The Twoleg bent down and touched the flap. 

“Yes, please!” Talltail felt excitement welling as the 
Twoleg pulled at the side of the flap. 

Jake padded closer. “Get ready.” 

Talltail saw the flap spring free, and in a flash he 
burst through and hared across the grass. He heard the 
Twoleg hooting behind, and the flap rattle. He glanced 
over his shoulder. Jake was racing after him. Talltail 
leaped onto the fence at the end of the grass. 


Jake clattered onto the top beside him. “Follow me!” 
He plunged down into the long grass beyond. 

Talltail dropped down after him, his pelt bushing up 
as ThunderClan scent filled his nose. “We can’t go this 
way!” 

Jake turned. “Why not?” 

“If a ThunderClan patrol finds us, they’ll shred us.” 
Talltail nudged Jake’s soft pelt. “They don’t like 
kittypets, and they definitely don’t like WindClan. Let’s 
go back over the fence. We’ll be safer in kittypet 
territory.” 

Jake looked disappointed. “But I thought we could 
escape into the woods.” 

Talltail shook his head. “You said you’d show me to 
the other side of Twolegplace, remember? This just 
takes me back to the Clans.” He trotted along the edge 
of the trees for a few tail-lengths until he was sure he 
was clear of Jake’s nest, then sprang up onto the 
fence. Jake followed. 

“Hello.” A soft mew made Talltail stiffen. A young, 
gray she-cat was staring up from the grassy square 
below. 

“We’re not here to cause trouble,’ he told her 


quickly. 

Jake jumped up beside him. “Hello, Quince.” There 
was a purr in his mew. 

“Hello, Jake.” Quince returned the purr. “Who’s 
this?” She turned her round, amber eyes on Talltail. 

Jake hesitated. “This is Talltail,”’ he meowed. 

“Talltail?” Quince leaped onto the fence beside them 
and sniffed Talltail’s pelt. “That sounds like a wildcat 
name.” She wrinkled her nose. “Ew! He smells of the 
cutter.” 

“He accidently ate a pois—” 

Talltail interrupted. He didn’t want every kittypet 
knowing he was a rabbit-brain. “I’m a WindClan 
warrior, actually.” He puffed out his chest. 

“Really?” Quince eyed him suspiciously. “Why are 
you hanging around Jake’s home and visiting the 
cutter? I thought warriors were—” 

“He’s on a mission.” It was Jake’s turn to butt in. 
‘T’m helping him. We’re going to find the cat who 
killed his father.” 

Quince’s eyes stretched wide. “Wow.” 

Talltail weaved past her and headed along the fence. 
“Hadn’t we better be going?” He didn’t want Jake 


inviting another kittypet along. Besides, he could hear 
Jake’s Twoleg hooting over the fences. 

Jake nodded. “Okay.” He nodded to Quince. “See 
you around.” 

She watched Jake slide past. “You are coming back, 
aren’t you?” 

“Of course he is.” Talltail hopped over the wooden 
stalk at the end and headed along the next fence. 

“There’s an alleyway at the end of this row,” Jake 
called from behind. 

“Great.” Talltail had no idea what an alleyway was 
but Jake seemed to think it was good. He glanced into 
the forest, wondering if a ThunderClan patrol was 
watching. Would they be gossiping to WindClan about 
him at the next Gathering? It would be full moon soon. 
Would Heatherstar tell the other Clans that he’d left? 

“There it is!” Jake squeezed past him as they 
reached the last enclosed section of grass and jumped 
down from the fence into a passageway lined with red 
stone. 

Talltail landed beside him. “Do you know where we 
are?” 

“Yes.” Jake quickened his pace, following a thin 


stream of water that ran along the crack in the middle 
of the path. He hopped back and forth over it, avoiding 
piles of clear, sharp stones. “Don’t tread on the broken 
glass,” he warned, stopping to point his nose toward 
shards of shiny, green ice. “If it sticks in your paw, 
you'll cut your tongue trying to lick it out, and the 
wound can turn bad easily.” 

Talltail nodded. He’d never seen glass before, but 
he’d take care to avoid tt. 

“This way.” Jake veered toward a low wall as the 
sides of the alley ended. He jumped onto it and down 
the other side. Talltail followed, his paws stinging from 
the hard ground. The tall dens opened out onto a wide 
stretch of stone. Talltail’s heart quickened as a monster 
rumbled past. A Thunderpath! 

“Stay close to me,” Jake called over his shoulder. 
He followed a wide, flat trail that cut between the 
Thunderpath and a row of Twoleg dens fronted with 
large windows. Monsters growled slowly beside them, 
their eyes beginning to light up as the sun slid behind 
the dens. Thin, silver trunks lining the Thunderpath 
flickered and blazed at their tips, throwing pools of light 
onto the stone below. 


Talltail blinked up at them. “What are they?” 

“Thunderpath lights.” Jake didn’t slow down, and 
Talltail quickened his pace. The noise and light and 
unfamiliar scents alarmed him, making his fur stand up 
and his ears swivel toward every new sound. Jake 
seemed unworried, his pelt smooth, his mouth open as 
though following a scent trail. Talltail could only smell 
monster fumes and carrion heaps. 

“Wait.” Jake stopped suddenly and pressed Talltail 
back with a nudge. He’d stopped beside a gap 
between two dens. Black sticks crisscrossed it. “Don’t 
move. You’re safe.” A moment later barking exploded 
from the gap and a snarling muzzle poked between the 
black sticks. Dog! Talltail unsheathed his claws. Teeth 
glinted in the dazzling Thunderpath lights. A Twoleg 
growl sounded from farther down the gap, and the dog 
turned and ran into the shadows. 

“We can pass now.” Jake strolled past the gap. 

Talltail hurried after him, his pelt spiking. “How did 
you know that dog would be there?” he gasped. 

“It does that every time I come this way.” Jake 
trotted past more windowed dens before veering away 
from the Thunderpath. Dusk was falling as they 


reached yet another row of dens, backed by tiny 
fenced-in meadows. 

“Do you know where you’re going?” Talltail 
wondered if Jake was just wandering aimlessly. 

Jake jumped up onto a fence. “Of course.” 

Talltail scrambled after him. “How?” He tasted the 
air. Now that the Thunderpath was behind them, there 
was a chance of scenting whether the rogues had 
passed this way. He dropped down the other side of 
the fence and began sniffing at the bushes crowding 
the edge of the grass. 

Jake stared down at him. “What are you doing?” 

“Searching for the rogues.” Kittypets were so 
dumb. Didn’t they know that a nose was the best 
tracker a cat had? 

Jake landed beside him. “Don’t waste your time 
sniffing,’ he mewed. “I’m taking you to a cat who 
knows everything that goes on around here. If the 
rogues have passed by here, she’ Il know.” 

Talltail blinked at him. “Who is she?” 

“Just a stray.” Jake flicked his tail and raced across 
the grass to the next fence. 

Stars specked a black sky by the time they’d 


reached the far end of the row of dens. Jake jumped 
down from the last fence and turned along a wide 
alleyway. There were low dens here like the ones 
where Jake had been cornered by the dog. 

“What are these dens for?” Talltail asked. “Are they 
for Twoleg kits?” 

“Housefolk keep monsters in them,” Jake explained, 
using a wall to jump up onto one of the roofs. Talltail 
sprang up after him. Ahead of them, rough stone 
stretched like a raised Thunderpath. He fell in beside 
Jake as they padded along it. 

“This is the perfect place to walk.” Jake sniffed the 
air. “No dogs or housefolk or monsters, and a clear 
view in every direction.” 

Talltail gazed around, amazed to see red stone and 
the lights of Twolegplace stretching as far as he could 
see. “Where does Twolegplace end?” he breathed. 

“We’re getting close,” Jake answered. “But first we 
have to find that cat.” 

“The one who knows everything?” 

“She lives near the end of these dens.” Jake spoke 
with respect, and Talltail wondered if kittypets had 
leaders, too. 


As they reached the end of the roof, Talltail peered 
over the edge. “Down there?” An open space—half-lit 
by Thunderpath lights, half-lit by the moon—stretched 
ahead of them. It was crisscrossed by high, mesh 
fences. To one side, yellow flames burned. Talltail 
bristled. “Fire!” 

“It’s just some Twolegs keeping themselves warm,” 
Jake explained. “There’ll be cats too, hoping for food, 
but we’ll steer clear.” He fluffed out his fur. “They’re 
not that friendly.” 

“Who? The Twolegs or the cats?” 

“Neither,” Jake told him grimly. 

Talltail shivered. This felt like walking into 
ShadowClan territory all over again. He followed Jake 
from the roof, jumping down onto a hard, square ledge, 
then to the ground. The soil underpaw was stony. 
Grass poked in clumps here and there. Smashed glass 
was strewn everywhere and Talltail watched where he 
put his paws, relieved that the glinting shards were 
easy to spot in the half-light. He halted while Jake 
scrabbled through a tight gap beneath one of the high, 
mesh fences, then squeezed under, grit scraping his 
belly. Tall, gray dens loomed ahead, jagged and unlit, 


their windows broken, their walls cracked. 

Talltail unsheathed his claws as Jake led him into the 
shadows and began to follow a narrow alleyway that 
cut between two dens. Light glowed at the end and 
Talltail quickened his pace, eager to be out of the 
pressing gloom. It felt too much like a tunnel. As he 
broke into a trot, Jake hissed behind him. “Slow 
down!” 

Talltail spotted movement at the end of the alley. 
Shapes slid from the shadow and stood silhouetted 
against the light beyond. Cats. A tom and a she-cat, 
from the scent that drifted down to him. Talltail could 
make out the ragged ends of their ears and their 
clumped fur. These were fighters. He stopped. “What 
now?” he whispered. 

Before Jake could answer, the tom growled. “We 
have trespassers.” 

“That’s not good,” sneered his companion. 

“You're wrong, Pixie.” There was malice in the 
tom’s snarl. Talltail’s belly tightened. “Thats very 
good. We might have some fun with them. Let’s take 
them to Jay and see what she suggests.” 

Talltail glanced at Jake, his pelt lifting along his 


spine. You stupid kittypet! You’ve led us into a trap! 


j 
a 





CHAPTER 32 
te 


ko 


“Why are you bothering me with trespassers?” A 
mangy, old black-and-white she-cat looked up from a 
dead pigeon. 

This must be Jay. Talltail shifted his paws 
nervously. The cats had ushered him and Jake into a 


clearing surrounded by unlit dens and dotted with piles 
that stank of crow-food. 

Feathers stuck to Jay’s graying muzzle. She shook 
them away. “I’m trying to eat.” As she curled her lip, 
Talltail saw she had no teeth. If she were in a Clan, 
she’d be an elder by now. 

Pixie nudged him forward. “We found these two 
nosing around the alley,” he explained. 

Talltail flashed her a look. Unease was creeping 
beneath his pelt, but he wasn’t going to show these 
ragged strays that he was scared. He flexed his claws. 
“You don’t have to push.” 

“Are you planning on pushing back?” Pixie 
challenged with a hiss. 

“Not yet.” In the moonlit clearing he could see her 
scarred muzzle and thin, yellowing tail. He guessed 
she’d been white once. 

Jake padded past Talltail. “We haven’t come to start 
a fight,” he mewed to Jay. 

Talltail saw movement at the edge of his vision. He 
jerked his head around, scanning the shadows. Cats 
were creeping forward, their eyes glinting in the 
moonlight. Some wore collars, but they couldn’t be 


kittypets; their pelts were ragged and flea-bitten, their 
ears nicked, their noses scratched. Talltail eyed them 
warily, wondering if Jake understood how much danger 
they were in. 

A russet-furred she-cat padded to Jay’s side. “What 
are they doing here?” she asked, her narrow gaze 
fixing on Talltail. 

Talltail stiffened. Were they going to have to fight 
their way out of here? 

Jay shrugged. “Don’t ask me, Red. It was 
Marmalade and Pixie who brought them.” She bent 
down stiffly and tried to wrestle a piece of flesh from 
the pigeon with her gums. 

The ginger tom who'd helped Pixie escort them here 
pushed past Talltail. “We caught them.” 

“Well done, Marmalade.” Red met his gaze with a 
withermg look. “Did you think they were mice?” 
Marmalade’s pelt rose along his spine but he said 
nothing. Red padded closer to Talltail and sniffed him. 
“You smell strange. And you’re small for a kittypet.” 

“He’s not a kittypet; he’s a Clan cat,’ meowed 
Jake. 

Red narrowed her eyes. “Then what’s he doing 


here?” 

“He’s with me.” Jake shook out his fur. “We’re on a 
mission. We came to ask Jay a question.” 

Talltail hissed in his ear. “Don’t tell them 
everything!” 

Jake blinked at him. “They’re not interested.” 

Talltail nodded toward the cats milling in the 
shadows. “And we don’t want them to be interested. 
They might try to stop us.” 

Jake frowned. “But they might be able to help us.” 

Talltail lashed his tail. These cats looked as helpful 
as a ShadowClan patrol. “Let me do the talking,” he 
insisted. 

Jay lifted her head. “That’s just what I need. A 
talker.” 

Talltail straightened. Just imagine shes 
Whiteberry. He was used to coaxing grumpy elders 
into a better mood when damp weather made their 
bones ache. “I’m sorry to bother you,” he began softly. 
“But Jake said you’re the only cat who knows 
everything that happens around here.” 

“That’s true enough,” Jay conceded, narrowing her 
eyes. 


“We’re tracking some rogues who may have passed 
this way two moons ago,” Talltail explained as briefly 
as he could. “We were hoping you’d seen them.” 

“Why?” Jay rasped. “Are they worth seeing?” 

Talltail shrugged, trying not to seem too eager. 
“They’re just rogues.” 

Marmalade pricked his ears. “What does a Clan cat 
want with rogues?” 

Red padded around Talltail. “Perhaps he wants to 
join them.” Her gaze flicked over his pelt. “Perhaps 
he’s bored of the Clans.” 

Talltail ignored her. “One of them’s called Sparrow.” 

Jay rubbed a feather from her nose with her paw. 
“Why is a Clan cat traveling with a kittypet?” Her 
gaze rested on Jake. 

Jake glanced at Talltail, as though asking permission 
to speak. Talltail kept his attention on Jay. “He likes 
Clan cats, that’s all’ he mewed. 

“Clan cats.” Jay’s eyes clouded, as though she was 
remembering something from long ago. “I knew a cat 
once who liked Clan cats.” She bent down and tugged 
unsuccessfully at the pigeon’s flesh. 

Jake trotted forward. “Let me help.” 


Talltail’s heart lurched as Jake hooked the pigeon 
away from Jay. He flexed his claws, ready to fight, as 
Red and Marmalade showed their teeth. Growls 
rumbled from the shadows. At the edge of the 
clearing, the flea-bitten cats padded closer. 

“I can rip off a chunk so you can get to the soft 
flesh,’ Jake mewed cheerfully. He went on as Jay 
stared at him, wide-eyed. “It’s okay. I won’t eat any. 
PI just find you a juicy bit.” He nuzzled through the 
feathers and, holding the pigeon still with a paw, peeled 
off a strip. He dropped it at Jay’s paws and tore off 
another. Then he pushed the pigeon back toward her. 
“Tt’ll be easy to get into now.” 

Talltail blinked. Was Jake really as rabbit-brained as 
he seemed? He’d nearly had a swarm of spitting cats 
on their tails. 

Jay leaned down and sniffed the hunks of flesh, 
dabbing a piece with her tongue. She sat up and 
glanced at her companions. “Why couldn’t one of you 
think of that?” 

Pixie bristled. Marmalade glared at Jake. 

“I’m sure they did,” Jake told her. “But they were 
too polite to offer.” 


Jay snorted. “Any more politeness and I’d starve to 
death.” 

As she bent and took a bite, Jake leaned closer. 
“Can Talltail ask you those questions now?” 

“About the rogues?” Chewing, Jay tipped her head. 
“Go on.” 

Talltail pricked his ears. Perhaps Jake had just found 
a way to get them the answers he wanted. Not so 
rabbit-brained after all, kittypet! “I heard they might 
have come this way. Have you seen them?” 

Jay swallowed. “Do they have names?” 

“Sparrow,” Talltail told her again slowly. “He’s 
brown. He was traveling with Bess, Algernon, Mole, 
and Reena.” 

Jay poked distractedly at the pigeon with her paw. 
“Are they all rogues?” 

“Yes.” Talltail dug his claws into the cracked earth. 

Jake nodded to Jay. “Why don’t you have another 
mouthful of pigeon?” he suggested. “It'll help you 
think.” 

“Perhaps it will.” The old she-cat pulled at the flesh 
with her gums, tearing a fresh morsel away, and began 
chewing. “Rogues, you say,” she murmured, her mouth 


full. “Rogues with house-cat names, mind you.” 

“They travel together.” Talltail tried to hide the 
impatience pricking in his fur. “They would have 
passed this way about two moons ago.” 

Jay nodded slowly, then swallowed. “Oh yes. I 
remember them. Red found them hunting our alleys.” 
She looked toward the tawny she-cat. “Was that 
them?” 

Red frowned. “Was there a black-and-white she-cat 
with them?” 

Talltail’s ears twitched excitedly. “And a small gray 
tom and a ginger-and-white—” 

“That was them.” Red nodded. “We let them take 
one piece of prey each, then moved them on.” 

“When?” Talltail’s whiskers were quivering. 

“Was the moon full, Marmalade?” Red asked. 

Marmalade glanced at the sky. “Not as full as this.” 

“How long were the days?” Talltail wanted to know 
if they’d passed one moon ago or two. 

“Not much longer than this,” Red told him. 

“So last moon?” Talltail prompted. 

Jay’s tail began to flick. “Whenever it was, they’ve 
gone now.” She ducked down for another mouthful of 


pigeon. “You should go too before you wear out my 
ears with your questions.” 

Red and Marmalade padded closer to Talltail, tails 
flicking. 

“Okay, we’re going.” Talltail turned away from the 
mangy old she-cat, beckoning Jake with a nod. 

“Thanks for your help,” Jake called to Jay. 

Jay blinked at the kittypet. “Thanks for yours.” 

Jake purred. “I’m sure Red or Marmalade will help 
with your fresh-kill next time.” 

“Sure we will’ Red hissed through gritted teeth. 

Talltail nudged Jake away. “Come on.” Before you 
try to organize this bunch of loners into a Clan. He 
steered him toward the far side of the clearing, his pelt 
rippling uneasily as they passed the watching strays. 
There was a gap between the cracked dens that would 
lead them clear. 

“T told you she’d help,” Jake purred as they reached 
It. 

“You didn’t tell me you were leading us into an 
enemy camp,” Talltail muttered. He ducked into the 
alley and quickened his pace. The sooner he was away 
from here, the better. 


Jake trotted after him. “You found out what you 
wanted to know, didn’t you?” 

“Yes. Now let’s get out of here.” Talltail paused and 
looked back. “And thanks for your help, Jake. You did 
well to get that old she-cat to tell us about the rogues.” 

Jake shrugged. “It’s like dealing with housefolk. You 
get more out of them by being friendly.” 

The far side of the alley opened onto a row of neat, 
grassy squares. A long stretch of mesh divided them 
from the dilapidated dens. Talltail squeezed under the 
mesh, relieved to see the tiny meadows ahead. No 
more dodging broken glass. The grass felt soft beneath 
his paws. “How far is it to the end of Twolegplace?” 

Jake nodded toward the large red-stone den at the 
end of the little meadow. “There are open fields 
beyond there.” 

Talltail followed his gaze. Beyond the den, there was 
nothing but wide, star-speckled sky and rolling, dark 
emptiness below. “The rogues would have kept going,” 
he guessed. “Past Twolegplace.” 

“Or they might have turned back,” Jake pointed out. 
“There’s warmth and shelter here.” 

“Only if you’ve got a Twoleg looking after you,” 


Talltail meowed. He started trotting toward the red- 
stone den. Jake stayed where he was. Talltail stopped. 
Was Jake going to go home now? An unexpected pang 
tugged his heart. He glanced over his shoulder. 

Jake was sniffing the air, his eyes flashing with 
excitement. “I smell food.” He turned and disappeared 
around the corner of the den. Now where ï he going? 
Talltail peered around the edge of the red stone. Jake’s 
hind legs were disappearing through a small flap, like 
the one where he lived. Talltail stared. What in the 
name of StarClan is he doing? His heart began to 
race as he stared at the flap, expecting Jake to explode 
out with a vicious kittypet or angry dog on his tail. But 
nothing happened. 

As Talltail’s belly began to growl, Jake’s head poked 
from the flap. “Come and get some!” he called. 
“There’s plenty.” He licked his lips, and the scent of 
little, brown pellets drifted to Talltail on the breeze. 

“You want me to steal kittypet food?” 

Jake nodded. “Why not? There’s always more.” 

“What about the kittypet who lives there?” Talltail 
asked. “Won’t he mind?” 

“It smells like a she, and she must be asleep 


upstairs, or out. There’s no sign of her by the food.” 

‘Td rather hunt, thanks,” Talltail muttered. Now that 
he was almost out of Twolegplace, he didn’t need to 
eat those dry pellets anymore. 

“Okay.” Jake ducked back inside. 

Talltail growled under his breath. He might as well 
catch some fresh-kill while he was waiting for Jake to 
stuff his belly. He began to sniff along the bushes at 
the grass, sticking his head under the leaves of a laurel 
and tasting the air. He smelled shrew. Mouth watering, 
he crept under the branches. The soil crunched frostily 
beneath his paws. Following his nose, he squeezed past 
the thick stem and tracked the scent to a spiky bush, 
then into tall grass. The stems swished as he pushed 
through, showering dusty seed over his pelt. The shrew 
smell grew stronger. Grass rustled ahead. Straining to 
see in the shadows, Talltail spotted a small shape 
moving beneath a holly bush. He pressed his belly to 
the ground. He’d learned from chasing the mouse into 
Twolegplace that hunting in thick undergrowth took 
more patience than speed. 

The shape scuttled, then stopped. It was definitely a 
shrew. Talltail could make out its small, pointed nose as 


it snuffled among the leaf litter. Stealthily he crept 
forward, keeping low so that his spine didn’t disturb the 
branches hanging above. A tail-length from the shrew, 
he flung his paws forward and pounced. 

The shrew’s paws scrabbled on the leaf litter, but 
Talltail was quick and pinned its tail. Hooking it close, 
he killed it with a bite. He gulped it down and padded 
onto the moonlit grass feeling pleased with himself. 

Jake was lying beside the Twoleg den, belly-up, 
happily washing his paws. As Talltail padded toward 
him, he hauled himself up and belched. “Catch 
something?” 

“A shrew.” 

“Was it tasty?” 

“You should catch one and find out.” 

Jake sat back on his haunches. “Would you teach 
me?” 

Talltail shrugged. “We’re at the end of 
Twolegplace.” He nodded to the alleyway. It would 
lead past the red-stone den to open fields. “You'll be 
going home, won’t you?” 

Jake looked up at the moon. “In the morning. Let’s 
find somewhere to sleep.” He gazed across the grass 


at a small, wooden den. “What about that shed?” 

Talltail glanced over his shoulder. It looked like the 
den he’d been poisoned in. “No thanks. Pd rather 
sleep under a bush.” 

“Okay.” Jake looked around. “Which one?” He 
padded toward the laurel. “This looks like itll give us 
some shelter.” 

“What if the kittypet whose food you just stole 
comes out in the night?” Talltail didn’t fancy waking up 
to a fight. 

“Lets head toward the fields, then,” Jake 
suggested. “There’ll be a hedge or something, won’t 
there?” 

Talltail narrowed his eyes. “I thought you weren’t 
leaving Twolegplace?” 

“I want to see what it’s like sleeping in the wild.” 
Jake headed toward the alley and disappeared into the 
shadows. 

Talltail padded after him. If this kittypet wanted to 
play warrior, why argue? He’d be gone tomorrow. 
Another pang bit his belly. He ignored it and followed 
Jake to the front of the den, where another tiny 
meadow stretched to a low, stone wall. He leaped it 


after Jake and trotted over a short stretch of grass that 
led to a rutted Thunderpath, deserted in the moonlight. 
They crossed it side by side, their shadows stretching 
across the dried mud, then jumped into the long grass 
beyond. 

Talltail slipped into the lead. They were in wild 
territory now. The quiet darkness felt soothing after the 
glaring noise of Twolegplace. Talltail weaved through 
the grass and jumped over a ditch. A thick hedge 
edged the other side and he crept under it. The earth 
was dry. “Let’s sleep here.” He began to scoop out a 
hollow with his paws. 

Jake watched him. “You dig your nests?” 

“There’s nothing to sleep on.” Talltail kept on 
scraping. “A hollow will keep us warm.” 

Jake watched and then copied him, pawing at the 
earth until he’d dug a shallow dip. “Won’t the roots 
make it prickly?” Jake stared in dismay at the gnarled 
hedge roots that he’d uncovered. 

“They won’t hurt you.” Talltail curled into his own 
scoop. 

“T’m not used to lumps in my nest.” 

“You wanted to know what it’s like sleeping wild.” 


Talltail could feel roots jabbing between his ribs too, but 
he wasn’t going to say anything. “Besides, it’s just for 
tonight. We’ll make better nests tomorrow,” he 
promised, closing his eyes. 

Jake didn’t reply, but Talltail heard his pelt swish as 
he settled into his uncomfortable scoop. We’ll make 
better nests tomorrow. Why had he said that? Jake 
would be going home at dawn. And I'll be tracking 
the rogues. Excitement pricked in Talltail’s paws as he 
pictured Sparrow, imagined sinking his claws into the 
rogue’s fur, hearing him plead for mercy. Talltail was 
on his trail. He knew he would find Sparrow. And 
soon, very soon, he would have his revenge. 





Sunlight woke Talltail. He opened his eyes, squinting 
as rays sliced through the hedge. He slunk, stretching, 
from his makeshift den and shook out his fur. A sharp 
frost had hardened the earth and whitened the 
meadows. Ahead, the land sloped to a rugged hilltop 


where the sun squatted on the horizon, spilling light 
over the silver grass. The hedge rattled behind him. 

“It looks like a good day for walking.” Jake’s mew 
was thick with sleep as he stumbled from beneath the 
branches. He yawned, then blinked at the hilltop. “Is 
that the way you’re heading?” 

“I guess so.” The hilltop would be a good place to 
start. From there, he could decide which route the 
rogues might have taken. It looked rocky and exposed, 
the slope steeper and more rugged than WindClan 
territory. Anxiety pricked at his belly. Had any Clan cat 
traveled this far before? 

“You don’t sound sure.” Talltail felt Jake’s pelt brush 
against his as the kittypet stood beside him. 

“The rogues could have gone anywhere,” Talltail 
pointed out. He gazed across the open stretch of 
grassland that curved past Twolegplace. What if 
they’d decided to take the low path, keeping out of the 
cold wind? 

“You’ve got to start somewhere,” Jake meowed. 

“But where?” Talltail frowned. This might have 
been strange country to him, but the rogues had 
probably walked this route for moons and knew all its 


secrets, all the best places to shelter and find food. 

“Why don’t we climb the hill, like you said?” Jake 
mewed. “From up there, it might be obvious which 
way they’d choose.” 

“We?” Talltail blinked. “I thought you were going 
home.” 

“Eventually.” Jake held his gaze. “But there’s no 
harm in seeing what’s on the other side of the hill.” 

Talltail paused, wonderng why he didn’t feel 
irritated. This was his mission. He didn’t need help. 
Especially not from a kittypet. Yet suddenly the 
looming hill seemed less daunting. He shrugged. 
“Okay.” 

The wind whipped his whiskers as he padded up the 
slope. Jake followed a few paces behind, his head 
switching back and forth as he scanned the landscape. 
When sharp, gray rocks began to jut from the grass 
and the slope steepened, Talltail paused and waited for 
him to catch up. “You’re shivering.” 

Jake’s silky fur was rippling along his spine. “I’m 
okay,” he muttered tightly. “There’ll be shelter on the 
other side.” 

“I hope so.” Talltail wasn’t convinced. Though he 


could hardly feel the wind through his short, thick fur, 
he knew it’d be fiercer once they’d reached the top; it 
was sweeping over the hilltop toward them. What if it 
makes Jake turn back? Talltail glanced anxiously 
over his shoulder. Twolegplace sprawled just beyond 
the hedge. It wouldn’t take long for Jake to reach the 
shelter of its stone walls and tiny, fenced-in meadows. 

Jake leaped past him up the rocky slope, his paws 
slithering on the frosty rock. 

“This way’s easier,’ Talltail called. He veered 
around the outcrop, following a grassy trail, but Jake 
scrabbled stubbornly on. 

“If I can climb up Twoleg walls, I can manage this,” 
he growled. 

Talltail reached the hilltop first, and a cold blast of 
air snatched his breath away. He narrowed his eyes 
against the icy wind and tried to ignore the pang of 
disappointment digging in his belly. Jake would turn 
back now, surely? 

Focusing, he surveyed the land sloping ahead. It was 
like being on Outlook Rock again. The view was 
different but he still had a hawk’s eye and took only a 
few moments to scan the valley. The land rose and fell 


gently on one side; the other was steep and barren, 
topped by craggy peaks. A river sparkled between, 
meandering along the valley bottom, and in the hollow 
between two low hills, a dense wood nestled like moss 
in a nest. 

“That’s where they’d head.” Jake’s breathless mew 
took him by surprise. Talltail followed the kittypet’s 
gaze toward the wooded hollow. 

“If they’re anything like me, they’ll be looking for 
shelter.” Jake flattened his ears against the wind. 

Talltail sniffed. “If they were anything like you, 
they’d be snuggled up in a Twoleg den eating kittypet 
food.” He paused, pelt pricking as he realized how 
mean he sounded. “Sorry.” He caught Jake’s green 
gaze. “I just meant they’re not kittypets. They might 
have their own ideas about shelter.” 

Jake shifted his paws. “I know I’m a kittypet. I’m 
happy with that.” He began to head down the slope 
that led into the valley. “It doesn’t mean I can’t walk a 
different path for a while.” 

Talltail bounded after him. As he caught up, a 
screeching cry echoed across the valley. Jake froze. 
“Fox!” His eyes widened with fear. “Out here? I 


thought they only lived in Twolegplace.” 

“Foxes are like rats. They live everywhere.” Talltail 
studied the hillside. The bark had sounded close. A red 
pelt scurried across the grass below them. 

“Where can we hide?” Jake’s pelt bristled, his gaze 
darting across the wide stretch of grass in front of 
them. He nodded toward a smooth, gray boulder. “It 
won’t see us if we crouch behind that.” 

“Just stand still?’ Talltail ordered. 

“But it'll see us.” Jake’s mew was edged with 
panic. “There’s nowhere to hide out here.” 

Talltail guessed that Jake was missing his shadowy 
alleys and dens. “There are plenty of places to hide.” 
He nodded toward the long grass sprouting beyond the 
boulder. It stretched all the way to the bottom of the 
valley. They could cross the entire hillside hidden 
among the rippling stems. Trees and bushes lined the 
river where it ended. “Just imagine that the grass and 
bushes are walls and fences. Besides, the wind will 
protect us.” 

“The wind?” Jake blinked at him. “How?” 

“It’s blowing this way,” Talltail explained. “We can 
smell the fox, but it can’t smell us.” He opened his 


mouth and let the musky scent wash his tongue as the 
fox slunk toward a swathe of bracken and 
disappeared. “See?” He flicked his tail as the fox’s pelt 
melted among the russet fronds. “It never even noticed 
us.” 

Jake was already heading for the long grass. Talltail 
bounded after him, pushing through the stems a tail- 
length behind. He could smell Jake’s fear-scent, 
stronger than his normal aroma, and knew he had to 
calm Jake down before the fox detected it. “We could 
beat a fox easily,’ Talltail called. “If we fought 
together.” 

Jake slowed. “I guess we drove off that dog.” 

Talltail fell in beside him. “I can teach you some 
battle moves if you’d like.” The ground sloped more 
steeply as they neared the river. 

“Battle moves?” Jake let out a tiny yelp as his paws 
slithered beneath him. 

Talltail dug in his claws to get a better grip. “We’re 
called warriors for a reason.” 

“Who do you fight?” Jake bounded down a sharp 
drop, scrambling to a halt as the land began to flatten 
out. 


“ShadowClan and RiverClan mostly,” Talltail replied, 
negotiating the drop more smoothly. “We share borders 
with them.” 

“Like fighting over fences.” 

Talltail’s pelt ruffled. “It’s more important than that,” 
he huffed. “We’re not just being selfish over a patch of 
ground. We’re fighting for our Clan’s survival! A true 
warrior would die to save his Clan.” 

Jake narrowed his eyes. “Is that why you’re out 
here, risking your life?” he asked. “To save your 
Clan?” 

Talltail hurried ahead, grass brushing his pelt. “I’m 
avenging my father.” 


“How will that help your Clan?” 

Talltail turned on Jake, hissing. “My Clan has 
nothing to do with this!” 

“It has to! You’re a warrior.” Confusion clouded 
Jake’s gaze. 


Talltail’s thoughts whirled and tangled. A warrior 
avenges the death of a Clanmate, doesnt he? I’m 
doing this for Sandgorse! He stiffened. My father 
wants me to avenge his death. Sandgorse’s amber 
gaze glowed in his mind. Then he pictured it 


disappearing under a deluge of mud. Blood roared in 
his ears. 

“Talltail?” Jake was circling him. “Are you okay?” 

Talltail padded past him, forcing his pelt to flatten. 
“T’m fine.” He slid from the long grass at a point 
where scrubby, cow-trodden pasture sloped gently 
toward the river. 

Jake popped out beside him. As he gazed across the 
valley to the wooded hollow, his belly rumbled. 

“There’ll be prey in those bushes.” Talltail nodded 
toward the hawthorn that crowded the riverbank. 
Beyond the bare, prickly branches, sun sparkled on the 
rippling water. Overhead cold, blue sky stretched 
between the hilltops. Talltail tasted the air. The scent of 
fox was growing stale. The stone tang of frost was 
tinged with the smell of sheep, refreshing after the 
jumble of acrid Twoleg scents. Talltail bounded across 
the grass. Jake raced beside him, taking the lead and 
skidding to a halt by the bushes. Talltail stopped beside 
him, surprised to find himself breathless. 

“Are you okay?” Jake leaned closer. 

“Fine,” Talltail panted. 

“You look ruffled.” 


“T guess I’m still weak from the poison.” 

“Do you want to rest while I hunt?” Jake offered. 

A purr caught in Talltail’s throat. “Do you know 
how to hunt?” 

“I caught a bird once.” Jake puffed out his chest. 
Talltail tipped his head, impressed. “It was a bit injured 
when I found it,’ Jake admitted. “But it flapped a lot 
before I killed it.” 

Talltail rolled his eyes. “Let’s hunt together,’ he 
suggested. He nosed his way between the hawthorn 
bushes. Beyond them, water lapped against the dark 
brown earth, deeply pitted by the hooves of animals. 
Talltail padded along the edge of the river, keeping a 
wary eye on the surface. Mouse scent touched his 
nose. “Wait.” He dropped to a crouch, beckoning for 
Jake to do the same with a flick of his tail. Something 
was scuttling beneath the branches up ahead. He crept 
forward, his paws as light as falling snow, and rounded 
the bush. Stopping, he peered through and caught sight 
of the mouse. It was sitting under a branch, grasping a 
berry in its paws. Talltail held still. He could see Jake 
creeping closer on the far side of the bush. Wait! He 
willed Jake not to scare away their prey. 


The mouse scurried forward. Its scent washed 
Talltail’s nose. Another few paw steps and he’d reach 
it easily. He hesitated. Why not let Jake catch it? 
Every cat should learn how to hunt, even a kittypet. 

The mouse moved again. Peering under the bush, 
Talltail saw it skitter sideways. He was going to have 
to drive it straight toward Jake or the kittypet would 
never catch it. He lunged beneath the branches, 
screwing up his eyes against the prickly twigs. Paws 
stretched, he skidded on his belly and burst out the 
other side. 

Jake gasped as the mouse darted toward him, then 
fast as a weasel, he slammed his paws down on the 
tiny creature. 

“Bite its spine!” Talltail called. 

Jake clamped his jaws around the mouse’s neck and 
killed it with a sharp nip. Talltail wriggled out from 
beneath the bush, wincing as thorns jabbed his pelt. 
“Well done!” 

Jake sat up, blinking, the mouse dangling from his 
mouth. He looked as surprised as the mouse. He 
dropped it onto the ground and purred. ‘I caught it!” 

Talltail swallowed the urge to point out that the 


mouse had practically run into his teeth. “You reacted 
quickly.” 

“Thanks.” Jake stared at the mouse uncertainly. 
“Now what?” 

“You can eat it.” 

“What about you?” 

“It’s your catch.” 

“You helped.” Jake nudged it toward Talltail with a 
paw. “Let’s share.” 

“Ts that okay?” 

Jake cocked his head. “You share in the Clan, don’t 
you?” 

“Only if it’s offered,” Talltail told him. 

“T’m offering.” Jake nodded at the mouse. “You can 
have first bite.” 

Talltail felt Jake’s gaze on him as he leaned down 
and bit into the warm flesh of the mouse. It tasted 
sweet. “Have some.” He pushed it back toward Jake. 

Jake took a bite, sitting up to chew. Talltail watched 
his eyes soften. “Do you like it?” 

“Yes,” Jake purred, and he took another bite, 
crunching through bone like a Clanborn cat. He nudged 
the carcass toward Talltail. “You finish it,” he ordered. 


“You still need to get your strength back.” Talltail 
didn’t argue. His legs felt shaky from the hunt. “Do 
you want to rest?” Jake asked as he finished the last 
scrap. 

Talltail looked across the stretch of meadows 
toward the woods. “Let’s keep going.” He wanted to 
reach the trees before dark. Woodland was gloomy 
enough at sunhigh. It would be as suffocating as a 
tunnel when dusk approached. He stood up and shook 
out his fur. Jake licked his lips. Together they headed 
across the grass, which rippled around them like water 
in the cold breeze. 

By the time they reached the trees, Talltail’s paws 
were trembling with tiredness. He fluffed out his fur, 
suddenly chilled to the bone. 

Jake brushed against him. “You look exhausted.” 

Talltail shrugged. “I’m okay.” 

“Why don’t we find a place to rest?” Jake glanced 
up at the sun. It was beginning to slide toward the 
hilltop behind them. “We’ve traveled far enough.” 

Talltail’s pelt twitched. “We need to catch the 
rogues.” 

“They won’t be traveling fast,’ Jake meowed 


confidently. “They’re rogues. They can travel where 
they like, when they like. What’s the hurry?” Talltail 
was too weary to argue. He let Jake lead him into the 
shelter of the trees. The kittypet stared up in wonder at 
the crisscrossing canopy of branches. “It’s like a huge 
den!” 

Talltail didn’t look. It was bad enough listening to the 
branches rattle in the wind. Trunks crowded around 
him, bushes and shadow pressing between them, 
trapping his paws, shutting out the breeze. Jake 
bounded forward and padded around a tree, staring up. 
A scent had caught his attention. He darted over to 
sniff a bramble that tumbled out from between two 
trunks. “It’s busier than Twolegplace!” he meowed 
excitedly. “There are prey smells everywhere.” 

Talltail sat down. “Great,” he muttered. 

Jake glanced over his shoulder. “Look for a hollow 
to rest in’ he mewed. He nodded toward a dip 
between the roots of an oak. “That might make a good 
nest.” He ducked away past a hawthorn. 

Talltail felt a twinge of anxiety as Jake’s tail 
disappeared. “Where are you going?” 

“PI be back,” Jake’s mew echoed from the trees. 


“You rest.” 

Talltail padded heavily toward the oak roots. The 
hollow was deep, and moss grew on the damp earth 
inside. Talltail clambered over the edge and curled into 
it. The moss was wet but he was too tired to care. 
Closing his eyes, he must have dozed. The next thing 
he knew, paws were pattering across the forest floor 
toward him. He tensed and peeked over the rim of the 
nest. 

Jake bounded from the trees with a wad of leaves 
and feathers clasped between his jaws. He stopped at 
the edge of the hollow and dropped them in. “You can 
line your nest with these.” Talltail ducked as leaves, 
twigs, and feathers showered his pelt. He stood up and 
shook out his fur. “Thanks.” Leaning down, he picked 
up a short stick between his teeth and tossed it out of 
the nest. “You might want to check for sharp bits next 
time.” 

“Sorry.” Jake hopped down beside him and began 
picking twigs from the litter. He tossed them out, then 
paddled the soft moss with his paws. “That feels 
better!” 

“In WindClan, we line our nests with sheepswool,” 


Talltail remarked. 

“TI get some.” Jake jumped out. 

“It’s okay; you don’t have to.” Bones aching with 
tiredness, Talltail sat down. 

Jake was already heading toward the edge of the 
trees. “I won’t be long!” 

Talltail curled back into the moss, ignoring the 
dampness. He rested his nose on his paws and closed 
his eyes. Just a few more moments’ sleep and he’d 
feel better. Darkness swirled through his thoughts and 
pulled him into tumbling dreams. 

Talltail! His father’s voice echoed from the 
shadows. Talltail, dreaming, stared around. Shadows 
crowded against his pelt, turning the air thick until he 
struggled for breath. Then something started falling on 
him—cold, wet earth, heavy as stones, more and more 
until his mouth and nose were clogged. He was inside 
the gorge tunnel! Suddenly eyes blinked in the 
blackness. Sparrow! Talltail recognized the cold, 
amber gaze of the rogue flashing in the dark. 

“Where’s Sandgorse? Have you left him behind?” 
Panic surged beneath Talltail’s pelt. “Sandgorse? 
Sandgorse?” He pushed past Sparrow, calling into the 


darkness. Water rumbled in the distance, its roar 
growing louder, and sticky mud dragged at Talltail’s 
legs. “You abandoned him!” Talltail turned on Sparrow, 
lashing his soaked tail. 

But the flashing eyes had gone, and he was alone 
underground. More earth slid weightily onto Talltail’s 
flank. He struggled, trying to kick free of the mud as it 
flooded around his paws. It lapped against his belly and 
dragged at his fur. “Sandgorse!” he shrieked in panic. 

“Talltail!” His father’s voice returned his call. 
“Talltail! Talltail!” 

A paw shook his shoulder. Talltail jerked up his 
head. Jake was in the nest beside him, poking him. His 
eyes were wide with excitement. “You have to come 
and see this!” 

Sheepswool surrounded Talltail, soft against his pelt. 
“Did you collect all that?” Talltail stared at it, still dazed 
from his dream. 

“Yes!” Jake hopped out of the nest. “But I found 
something else. Come on!” 

Talltail struggled to his paws, fighting the heaviness 
of sleep. “I’m coming.” He hauled himself out of the 
nest and followed Jake. 


Jake padded briskly between the trees, weaving past 
brambles and bracken, and hopped a rotting log. Talltail 
scrambled over it, still drowsy. “What is it?” Irritation 
itched beneath his fur. Couldn’t Jake have let him 
sleep? 

“Look!” Jake stopped beside a beech trunk and 
nodded toward the ground. “Smell that.” Talltail’s nose 
was already twitching. “Cat scent,’ Jake announced 
proudly. “When I’d fetched the wool, I decided to have 
a sniff around. And I found this.” 

A jumble of scents clung to the leaf-strewn soil 
between the tree roots. Talltail leaned closer, opening 
his mouth. 

“Ts it the rogues?” Jake demanded. 

There was a familiar hint to the smell. “I think it 
might be!” Talltail straightened up and stared at Jake, 
feeling a worm of excitement stir in his belly. The 
scents were too frozen to tell for sure. But they were 
definitely cat scent and definitely familiar. “They’re 
stale.” He unsheathed his claws and sank them into 
the cold, damp earth. “But we’re on the right trail!” 





Talltail woke in the wool-lined hollow between the 
oak roots. He could feel Jake breathing beside him, his 
pelt warm where their fur touched. He lifted his head, 
tasting the air. The icy chill had gone, replaced by 
dampness. The musty aroma of dying leaves flooded 


the nest. 

“Jake.” Talltail nudged the kittypet. Unfrozen, the 
cat scents they’d found last night would be much 
stronger. He hopped out of the nest, his paws sliding on 
the soggy leaves that had crunched underpaw 
yesterday. 

Jake blinked open his eyes. “What is it?” He 
yawned. 

“The weather’s changed,” Talltail told him. “There 
might be a trail we can follow.” 

Jake scrambled out of the nest, his nose twitching. 
He glanced at the remains of the squirrel Talltail had 
caught last night and licked his lips. “Should we hunt 
first?” 

Talltail blinked. “We can hunt later.” We have to 
check those scents! Heart quickening, Talltail headed 
for the trail Jake had led him along yesterday, mouth 
open, tasting for scents. He smelled moldy bark and 
damp leaves. Prey-scent hung heavy on the air, and 
the stale tang of fox. 

Jake trotted after him. “Can you remember where 
they were?” 

How could I forget? Talltail’s fur rippled along his 


spine. It was his first real evidence that he was on the 
trail of the rogues. /f it is the rogues. He broke into a 
run. He recognized Sparrow’s scent before he’d even 
reached the beech where the rogues had sheltered. 
Loosened by the mild frost, the smell flooded the damp 
air, stale but clear. Talltail skidded to a halt beside the 
flattened leaves where the rogues had clearly spent 
more than one night. In the pale dawn light he noticed 
the bones of prey scattered nearby and spotted a thin 
film of fur clinging to the craggy bark at the base of 
the tree. 

Jake stopped beside him, panting. “I thought I’d lost 
you for a moment,” he puffed. 

“T had to know if it was them.” Talltail stood with his 
legs braced, his old rage surging back as Sparrow’s 
scent filled his nose. He could taste Reena’s scent too, 
and Bess’s. A pang tugged his heart as he 
remembered how welcoming he’d been when the 
rogues had first arrived. How could he have been so 
foolish and trusting? He should have known they were 
trouble the moment they set paw on WindClan 
territory. Why didn’t his Clanmates understand the 
threat of letting strangers into the camp? Rabbit- 


brains! They believed the rogues were their friends, 
even after Sparrow had caused Sandgorse’s death! 
Talltail curled his claws into the soft earth, a growl 
rumbling in his throat. I’ll make you sorry! 

“Talltail?” Jake was staring at him. “Are you okay?” 

Talltail flicked the tip of his tail. “I’m fine,” he 
muttered. “I just want to find those cats.” 

Jake dipped his head. “We’ll find them,’ he 
promised. 

Talltail paced the edge of the abandoned nest until 
he found a scent trail leading away between the trees. 
It was old, but still strong enough to track. Pelt 
pricking, he began to follow it. 

“Where are we gong?” Jake called. 

“Can’t you smell their trail?” 

Jake caught up. “I can only smell trees and leaves.” 
He stuck out his tongue. “There are so many new 
scents out here. It’s hard to tell them apart.” 

“You'll get used to it.” Talltail glanced at Jake, 
suddenly realizing that the tom was supposed to be 
gong home. “Arent you heading back to 
Twolegplace?” he asked. 

Jake blinked at him. “What? Now that we’ve found 


the trail? I can’t leave you to face Sparrow alone.” 

“But this is my mission. I should. . .” Talltail’s mew 
trailed away. He didn’t want Jake to go. He searched 
the kittypet’s green gaze. “You don’t have to come.” 

“I want to!” Jake shifted his paws, adding quietly, 
“If you don’t mind, that is.” 

Talltail glanced at the ground, feeling hot. “I don’t 
mind,” he murmured. “It’s good to have company.” 

“That’s settled, then.” Jake marched away, tail high. 
“T know it’s your mission, and I won’t put my whiskers 
where they don’t belong.” He plunged past a clump of 
shriveled ferns. “But I can help you track Sparrow 
down. After that, it’s up to you.” 

Talltail purred. “Thanks, Jake.” He tasted the air. 
“Er, you do know that you’re heading the wrong way, 
don’t you?” The scent trail headed along a ridge in the 
forest floor. Jake was tramping uphill, veering away 
through the trees. 

Jake stopped and tasted the air. “I am?” His ears 
flattened. “Maybe you should lead the way,’ he 
mewed. 

Amused, Talltail headed along the ridge, his paws 
slipping on the layer of decaying leaves. He was used 


to grass and peat, firm turf that sprang beneath his 
feet. Jake trotted beside him, more at ease with the 
slippery trail, until brambles started to crowd the path. 

“Ow!” Jake tripped over a prickly tendril, hopping 
on three legs and shaking his injured paw. 

“Are you okay?” Talltail stopped and sniffed Jake’s 
leg. No blood scent. 

‘T’d be better if that hadn’t tripped me up.” Jake 
glared at the bramble. 

Talltail scanned the woods. The scent trail headed 
through bracken where fallen branches and rotting logs 
crisscrossed the forest floor, echoing the tangled 
canopy above. The rogues seemed to tackle every 
obstacle head-on, moving forward regardless of the 
territory. 

“Come on.” Talltail padded around the bramble, 
watching for spiky tendrils. He hopped over a fallen 
branch and pushed his way into the bracken. Broken 
stems showed the rogues’ trail, tainted with their scent. 
A decaying tree lay across the path and he scrambled 
over it, his paws slipping on the slimy moss. On the 
other side, the ground turned boggy. Talltail slowed as 
the sucking mud dragged at his paws. 


“I thought you said that rogues chose the easiest 
path,” Jake grunted, shaking mud from his forepaw. 

“It was probably frozen when they passed,” Talltail 
guessed. 

“Can you tell how old the scents are?” Jake 
scrambled onto harder ground and shook crumbs of 
leaf litter from his whiskers. 

“No. The smell’s quite fresh,” Talltail told him. “But 
the frost might have preserved it.” He glanced at the 
sky, gray above the treetops. “Come on.” He pulled his 
paws free of the cloying mud. “If it starts raining, the 
scents might be washed away.” 

The trees here were younger and thicker, their leaf- 
bare branches jutting low to the ground. Talltail had to 
keep low, ducking one branch and leaping another like 
a squirrel. He heard wood crack and split as Jake 
blundered after him. Talltail stopped and turned, 
breathless, as they reached a clearing. 

“This is tough gomg—” Jake’s gaze flashed with 
alarm. “Look out!” He barged past Talltail, his orange 
pelt bushing out. 

Where are you going? Talltail whipped around. A 
dark russet shape was blazing toward them. Fox! 


Jake hurled himself in its path as the fox lunged at 
Talltail. The kittypet reared up and slashed at the fox’s 
muzzle. The fox ducked away, showing its sharp, 
yellow teeth, then sprang at Jake again. Quick as a 
bird, Talltail shot forward, slicing the fox’s muzzle. The 
fox yelped, eyes sparking with rage. Talltail felt fur 
brush his flank. Jake was beside him. Talltail reared up 
on his hind legs as the fox attacked again. Jake reared 
up too. Talltail launched a flurry of blows at the fox 
and Jake joined in. 

The fox snapped at them—one side, then the other. 
Talltail’s claws hooked flesh, and he felt blood spurt 
against his cheek. The fox yelped, then growled, its 
eyes narrowing. Talltail’s heart lurched. We’re just 
making it angry! He glanced sideways at Jake. Eyes 
narrow, ears flat, Jake was hissing as viciously as any 
warrior. He slammed a front paw against the fox’s 
muzzle. Talltail matched his blow. They fell into a 
steady rhythm, lashing out at the fox with relentless 
fury. Then Talltail stumbled over a fallen twig. He lost 
his balance and dropped onto all fours. Jake dropped 
beside him. Talltail let the momentum take him down to 
the ground and rolled all the way over. Jake rolled with 


him, and they leaped to their paws beside the fox’s 
flank and began swiping again. The fox shrieked. 

“He can’t fight us both!” Talltail yowled with a rush 
of triumph. 

“Can you hold him while I go for his tail?” Jake 
called back. 

“Not for long.” Talltail gritted his teeth and lashed 
out even more fiercely as Jake darted toward the fox’s 
haunches and clamped his teeth around the base of its 
tail. Talltail heard a crunch as Jake bit down hard. The 
fox writhed, yelping, and as Jake let go, it tore past 
Talltail and fled away through the trees. Talltail 
dropped onto all fours, panting. His forepaw stung 
where the fox’s teeth had grazed it. 

“Did it hurt you?” Jake was at his side in a moment, 
sniffing for wounds. 

“Just a scratch.” Talltail showed him the scrape 
along his paw. “Not deep. Barkface would treat it with 
dock.” 

‘Tl find some.” Jake trotted away past the ferns. 
He was back a few moments later with a wad of dock 
in his jaws. He dropped it at Talltail’s paws. Lumps of 
fur were sticking out around Jake’s neck, and his 


orange pelt was darkened with spots of blood. 

Talltail sat down. “Are you okay?” 

“T’ve had worse wounds from next door’s tom.” He 
dipped his head to show Talltail a long-healed nick in 
his ear. 

Talltail sniffed it, a rush of gratitude sweeping 
through him as Jake’s warm scent touched his nose. 
“Thank you, Jake,” he murmured. 

“What for?” Jake straightened up. 

“You saved my life.” Talltail paused. “Again.” 

Jake purred. “No problem.” He sniffed the dock. 
“Do you wrap this around your paw or what?” 

“You chew it and lick it into the wound,” Talltail told 
him. Jake wrinkled his nose. Talltail’s whiskers 
twitched with amusement. “It’s okay. I can do it 
myself.” He grabbed a leaf in his jaws and began 
chewing. 

Jake watched as he pulped it and worked it into the 
scratch with his tongue. “Will that really make it 
better?” 

“It'll stop the wound from going bad,’ Talltail 
meowed. 

Jake waited until Talltail had used up all of the leaf. 


“Can you walk?” he asked. 

Talltail’s wound stung and his hind leg ached where 
he’d strained it, rearing up. But he wanted to keep 
following the rogues’ scent. A heavy shower might 
wash it away. “I’m fine,” he insisted. He limped across 
the clearing, sniffing the ground, his tail twitching as he 
picked up Reena’s scent. Algernon’s and Sparrow’s 
mingled with it, and he could smell Bess and Mole, too. 
He followed the trail through a hawthorn bush and past 
a gorse thicket, stumbling as leaves slid beneath his 
paws. Jake darted to his side, pressing against him. 

“Lean on me,” he ordered. 

“T’m okay,” Talltail meowed, but he let some of his 
weight rest against Jake’s soft shoulder. They padded 
on through the forest, Talltail sniffing for scent, Jake 
watching the ground for twigs and ruts. Talltail slowed 
as he saw the forest lighten ahead. They must be near 
the edge. 

Jake stiffened beside him. “Can you hear that?” 

Talltail pricked his ears. A buzzing, like swarming 
bees, hummed in the distance. “What is it?” A 
Thunderpath stench touched his nose, but the noise 
was too whiny to be monsters. 


“Tt sounds like a grass-cutter,” Jake told him. 

Talltail blinked at him. “A what?” 

“The Twolegs use them to shave the grass.” 

Twolegs are rabbit-brains. Talltail strained to see 
past the trees. “Why would they be using one here?” 

Jake sniffed. “Perhaps there’s a den beyond the 
trees.” 

“Let’s find out.” 

They crept through the trunks, slowing as they 
neared the edge of the woods. Talltail flattened his 
ears as the buzzing pierced his pelt, much louder now. 
The ground trembled beneath his paws. As they broke 
from the trees, Talltail halted. A hillside sloped past 
them. The grass had been churned into wide circles of 
mud as though huge claws had reached down and 
raked it. The Thunderpath stench was so strong, Jake 
coughed. “That’s not a grass-cutter,’ he choked. 
“What is it?” 

The buzzing had grown to a roar—to countless 
roars, which were rolling toward them over the crest 
of the slope. 

“We should stick to the side of the woods,” Jake 
suggested hoarsely. “It might be quieter at the bottom 


of the valley.” 

Talltail could feel him trembling. The ground 
trembled even more. “Perhaps we should head back 
into the forest,’ he growled over the noise. “We can 
pick up the trail farther down—” He stopped as a 
deafening roar exploded around them, so loud that it 
blasted them to the spot. 

Three huge shapes were speeding over the rise, 
bouncing over the churned grass toward them. Each 
ran on two black spmning paws that threw up mud in a 
wave behind them. Twolegs sat astride, hunkered 
down over the monsters’ dirt-spattered bodies. Talltail 
froze, choking as Thunderpath stench rolled over him. 
Heat pulsed toward him. 

StarClan, help us! Talltail closed his eyes as a 
heavy lump of mud hit his flank. More sprayed his 
cheek. He flinched away, pressing himself against 
Jake, and braced for searing pain and darkness to 
swamp him. 

The roaring eased. Talltail peered through slitted 
eyes as mud rained down around them. The monsters 
were lurching away, heading downslope until they 
disappeared around the corner of the trees. Talltail 


struggled to get his breath, his flank throbbing where 
earth had battered it. “Jake?” He lifted his head. 
“Jake, are you hurt?” He could feel the kittypet 
pressing stiffly against him. 

“You crow-brains!” 

Thats not Jake. Talltail looked up. On the slope 
above, a tom glared down at them. With a gasp, Talltail 
recognized the creamy, brown pelt of Algernon. 

Reena stood beside him, her eyes round with shock. 
“Why didn’t you run? You could have been killed!” 

Algernon swished his tail. “You just stood there like 
lumps of wood!” He paused, his eyes widening. 
“Tallpaw?” 

Reena pushed past him. “Tallpaw!” She pricked her 
ears. “Is that you?” 


j 
a 





CHAPTER 35 
te 


ko 


The roar of the monsters hung in the arr, still thick 
with their stench. 

“Tallpaw!” Reena thrust her muzzle closer. “What 
are you doing here? Is WindClan okay?” 

He blinked at her. The rogues? He’d found them! 


He could hardly believe it. As he searched for words, 
Reena sniffed him, her ginger-and-white pelt pricking. 
“Why are you here?” she asked. 

Jake lifted his muzzle shakily. “We’ve been looking 
for you.” 

Talltail flashed him a warning look. Dont say any 
more! 

“Do you need help?” Reena’s eyes sparked with 
worry. “Did Heatherstar send you?” 

The buzzing of the monsters was growing louder 
again. Algernon glanced over his shoulder. “We’d 
better get out of here.” He began to nudge Jake and 
Talltail into the forest. “Our camp’s at the bottom of 
the slope.” 

Talltail turned and limped toward the cover of the 
trees. 

“You're hurt!” Reena pressed beside him. 

“Just bruised,” Talltail told her. The shower of mud 
had battered him hard and his hind leg ached from the 
run-in with the fox. At least the scratch on his foreleg 
was numb from the dock leaf. “I’m fine.” 

“Good.” Reena guided him through a swathe of 
bracken, which was limp and wilting in the cold, damp 


air. 

Algernon hurried Jake after them. “Didn’t you 
realize you were walking into a herd of monsters?” 

“I thought it was a grass-cutter,’ Jake told him. 

“Out here?” Algernon stared at him as though he 
was crazy. 

Reena paused and sniffed. “You’re a kittypet!”” Her 
gaze jerked toward Talltail. “What are you doing with a 
kittypet?” 

Talltail swallowed. “He helped me find my way 
through Twolegplace.” 

Reena frowned. “We’d better keep moving. You 
can explain everything when we’re safe.” 

‘TI lead.” Algernon pushed past her, nosing through 
the bracken and heading downslope. 

Brambles clustered between the trees, fighting 
hawthorn bushes for the light at the edge of the forest. 
Talltail kept his eyes on Algernon, trying to follow his 
paw steps through the tangle of branches. 

“Oomph!” Jake gasped as he stumbled behind. 

“Are you okay?” Talltail called. 

“He’s fine.” Reena was helping Jake to his paws. 
“Follow me.” She nosed her way between Talltail and 


Jake and they walked single file, following Algernon. 

A stream cut through the trees like a tiny gorge, its 
banks steep. Algernon sprang across it easily. Talltail 
teetered on the brink, gazing down at the thin trickle of 
water below. 

“Just jump!’ Algernon urged. 

Talltail launched himself off the edge, his paws 
slithering on the mud. He reached out and dug his 
claws into the far bank and hauled himself up. 

“A WindClan cat shouldn’t be out here.” Algernon 
shook his head. “You belong on the moor.” 

Reena landed lightly beside him. “Why did you 
come?” 

A thump sounded behind, followed by a small splash. 
Talltail glanced back. Jake had disappeared. He rushed 
to the edge of the stream and peered down the steep 
bank. Jake was writhing at the bottom, trying to find a 
paw hold in the mud. Talltail curled his hind claws deep 
into the earth and leaned down, snatching at Jake’s 
scruff and holding him while the kittypet regained his 
footing. 

“Thanks,” Jake grunted. Talltail leaned back as Jake 
scrambled up beside him. 


Reena was looking confused. “Why are you helping 
a kittypet?” She wrinkled her nose as she looked at 
Jake. 

“He helped me,” Talltail told her simply. 

“Come on.” Algernon nodded them onward. The 
monsters were still roaring at the edge of the trees. 
“We can talk about it when we reach camp.” 

“Ts this where you live now?” Talltail asked. 

“It’s just temporary,” Algernon told him, padding 
away. 

Bracken scraped Talltail’s nose as Algernon led 
them through another clump. He narrowed his eyes 
against the fronds, blinking as he emerged into a small, 
leaf-strewn clearing. Mole lay between the roots of an 
elm, a gray bundle of fur in a heap of dark green moss. 
He lifted his head as Talltail followed Algernon from 
the bracken. “What’s he doing here?” 

“Who?” Bess stuck her head out from beneath a 
holly bush. Her eyes widened and she slid out, her 
black-and-white pelt sleek. Talltail figured they must 
have lived well since they left the Clan. 

“Tallpaw?” Bess blinked. “Is that you?” 

“T’m Talltail now.” 


“You have your warrior name!” Reena mewed in 
surprise. “Congratulations!” 

Bess’s gaze flicked to Reena. “Where did you find 
them?” 

“I think they found us, by the sound of it,’ Reena 
told her. 

Jake stopped beside Talltail and breathed softly in 
his ear. “What do we do now?” 

“Act normal,” Talltail murmured. Lifting his muzzle, 
he stared at Bess. “I’m glad I managed to find you.” 
His explanation would sound more convincing if he 
offered it before they asked. His thoughts raced. What 
reason could he give for tracking them here? 

“Is there trouble in WindClan?” Bess asked. 

“No.” Talltail shifted his paws. “Everything’s fine. 
But . . . but when I watched you leave at the end of 
greenleaf, I realized there was more to see than just 
WindClan territory.” He felt his fur smooth as he eased 
into his story. “I was hoping you’d let me travel with 
you.” 

Algernon looked at Jake, eyes narrow. “What about 
the kittypet?” 

“His name is Jake,” Talltail meowed. 


The bushes swished on the far side of the small 
clearing and Sparrow slid out. “Tallpaw?” 

Talltail swung around, meeting the brown tom’s 
impassive gaze. “Hi, Sparrow. It’s Talltail now.” He 
swallowed his rage as it tightened his throat. A vision 
flooded his mind: He was pinning Sparrow to the 
ground, claws deep in the murderer’s throat, blood 
bubbling at the tom’s mouth. 

“You’re trembling.” Sparrow’s cool mew snapped 
him from his thoughts. “Are you all right?” 

Talltail shifted his paws, thinking fast. “We were 
nearly squashed by two-pawed monsters.” 

Bess faced Sparrow. “He says he wants to travel 
with us.” 

“What about WindClan?” 

“I was tired of all the duties and rules,” Talltail 
mewed. “I wanted to see what it was like to live free, 
like you.” 

“And the kittypet?” Sparrow’s gaze didn’t give 
away anything. He simply flicked it from Talltail to 
Jake. 

“He’s been helping me track you down,” Talltail 
explained. “He’ll be going home now that I’ve found 


you.” Talltail felt Jake stiffen beside him. 

“Not yet.” Bess sniffed Jake’s muddy pelt. “You 
look like you need a rest and a meal. You must both 
stay for the night.” She flicked her tail. “Reena, will 
you find them some moss to make nests?” 

Talltail stepped forward. “Thanks, but we can find 
our own moss,” he told her. “I didn’t come here to be a 
burden.” Before any of the rogues could argue he 
padded across the clearing and pushed into the 
bracken, relieved to hear Jake trotting after him. 

“What are we doing?” Jake mewed as soon as they 
were far enough away from the clearing to speak 
privately. 

“You re going home,” Talltail told him. 

Jake’s eyes flashed with hurt. “And you’re going to 
live here with the rogue who killed your father?” 

“Of course not,’ Talltail snapped. “I just need to 
wait for my chance.” 

“Then what?” Jake leaned closer, lowering his 
voice. “Sparrow looks tough. What are you planning to 
do to him?” 

Kill him. Dread hollowed Talltail’s belly. He’d never 
killed a cat before. He forced himself to picture his 


father yowling in terror as mud showered around him, 
sealing him in darkness forever. He growled. 

“Talltail?” Jake’s eyes were like twin moons, huge 
and pale. “What’s your plan?” 

“I want him to admit that he killed my father.” 

“And then?” Jake’s ear twitched. 

“You said you wouldn’t poke your whiskers where 
they didn’t belong.” Talltail padded toward the roots of 
a tree and began scraping moss from the crevices in 
the bark. 

Jake paced behind him. “That cat looks dangerous, 
Talltail.” 

“He’s just a rogue.” Talltail stripped away a long 
piece of moss. 

“Come back with me,” Jake pleaded. “You’re not 
safe here.” 

“This is why I left my Clan.” Talltail hooked out 
another wad of moss and dropped it onto the pile 
beside him. 

“But you can go back to them, can’t you?” 

“T’m never going back,” Talltail growled. 

“Never?” Jake leaned closer. Talltail felt the 
kittypet’s breath on his cheek. “But you’re a warrior.” 


“You don’t have to belong to a Clan to be a 
warrior.” The words felt empty as Talltail spoke them. 
Was that true? 

“But what are you going to do once Sparrow is 
dead?” Jake demanded. 

“That doesn’t matter.” Talltail hadn’t thought beyond 
the moment of his revenge so far. He wasn’t going to 
start now. “Help me gather moss.” The sun was sliding 
behind the distant hills. Talltail shivered as shadows 
thickened among the trees. 

Jake crouched beside him and started picking at the 
next root. “If you’re staying,” Jake muttered, “so am I. 
You’re going to need help.” 

Talltail paused and stared at the kittypet. “This is my 
mission, remember?” 

Jake pulled a fat wad of moss from the bark with his 
claws. “Now it’s our mission.” 

Talltail didn’t argue. An odd sense of relief loosened 
his muscles. He’d grown used to having Jake around. 
“Come on.” He scraped the gathered moss into a 
bundle. “We’d better get back.” He didn’t want to give 
the rogues too long to discuss his sudden appearance. 
They might start asking questions. He felt sure that 


Sparrow already had. The cold gleam in the tom’s eyes 
hadn’t been welcoming. 

Talltail clamped his jaws around the soggy mass and 
began to carry it back toward the camp. Jake grabbed 
the rest and followed. Talltail slowed as they reached 
the bracken and padded though it softly, careful not to 
stir the stems. 

“I don’t like it.” Algernon’s mew made Talltail stop 
in his tracks. 

Jake halted beside him. “What’s wrong?” 

“They’re talking about me.” Unease wormed in 
Talltail’s belly. 

“We can’t turn them away.” Bess sounded firm. 
“They’re worn out.” 

Talltail pricked his ears. 

“But these woods are prey-poor,” Mole growled. 

“There’s enough for now,” Reena argued. 

Algernon snorted. “I knew we should have kept 
moving before we made camp.” 

“There are fish in the river, downslope,” Reena 
pointed out. 

“Can you swim?” Algernon muttered. 

“It’s not so prey-poor around here as you think.” 


Sparrow’s mew was confident. “That pigeon I caught 
today is the first of many.” 

“Really?” Mole’s voice rose with interest. 

‘Tve found a place where the Twolegs scatter 
grain,” Sparrow told him. “There’ll be pigeons coming 
for as long as it’s there.” 

Bess purred. “If that’s true, two extra mouths will 
be easy to feed.” 

Talltail padded out of the bracken and dropped his 
moss. “We can help you hunt,” he mewed. 

Algernon gazed past him, his gaze resting doubtfully 
on Jake. “Really?” 

“Jake’s a quick learner,’ Talltail told them. “He 
caught a mouse the other day.” 

Jake caught his gaze. “I helped,” he corrected. 

“We can manage without kittypet help,’ Mole 
grunted. 

Reena padded toward the corner sheltered by the 
holly bush. “I’ve piled some leaves here for you to 
make nests on,” she meowed. 

“Thanks.” Talltail held her gaze in the half light, 
trying to read whether she was genuinely willing to 
have them stay. 


She tipped her head. “You seem different, Talltail.” 

“Do I?” Unnerved, Talltail picked up his moss and 
carried it to the heap of leaves Reena had scraped 
together. 

“Less angry,” Reena meowed. “You . . . you didn’t 
seem to want us anywhere near WindClan by the time 
we left.” She sounded hurt and puzzled. 

Talltail winced. His rage was still there, burning just 
below his skin, but he needed these cats to accept him, 
trust him—at least until he had a chance to avenge his 
father’s death. And deep down, he didn’t blame Reena 
for anything, or Bess, or Algernon, or Mole. “I... I 
guess it took me a while to get over Sandgorse’s 
death,” he mewed, trying to sound as if the memories 
were long gone. “I’m sorry if I offended you.” 

Reena twitched her ears. “Not offended, exactly.” 
She sounded sympathetic. “I guess it was a lot for you 
to deal with: Sandgorse dying like that, and Sparrow 
surviving.” 

Talltail shot her a sharp look. Reena was 
dangerously close to discovering the truth. He had to 
convince her he didn’t hold Sparrow responsible. “Oh, 
it wasn’t Sparrow’s fault,’ he forced out through 


gritted teeth. “He was lucky to get out. Sandgorse 
wasn’t.” He stopped speaking as if he needed to 
concentrate on spreading his moss over the fallen 
leaves, shifting as Jake slid in beside him and began to 
shape the rest into a nest. 

Bess crossed the clearing, a pigeon in her jaws. She 
dropped it at Talltail’s paws. “I caught this earlier,” she 
told him. “You and Jake can share it.” 

Talltail shook his head. “We can’t take your prey.” 

“Yes, you can,” Sparrow called from the darkness 
on the far side of the clearing. “WindClan fed us 
through greenleaf.” 

Algernon nodded. “It’s only fair we feed one of 
theirs.” 

“T’m not one of theirs anymore,” Talltail told him. 

Algernon flicked his tail. “Nonsense,” he snorted. 
“You are Clanborn. You’ll be a Clan cat all your life.” 

Reena reached beneath a low branch at the edge of 
the clearing and hauled out a damp-looking shrew and 
a half-eaten squirrel. She tossed the shrew to Sparrow 
and carried the squirrel to Bess. “Mole. Algernon. Will 
you join us?” 

Talltail leaned down and tore the wing from the 


pigeon with his jaws. He nosed it toward Mole and 
Algernon as they crouched beside Reena’s squirrel. 
“Take this,” he offered. “We don’t need all of it.” 

“Give them the other one, too,” Jake whispered in 
his ear. 

Talltail ripped it off and dropped it at Algernon’s 
paws. He was aware of Sparrow’s gaze. He knows 
why I’m here. The thought flashed like fire in his mind. 
Fear sparked beneath his fur. He swallowed and 
padded back to Jake’s side. Jake was already chewing 
on the pigeon. Talltail’s belly tightened. How could he 
eat? Act normal. His own words echoed in his mind 
and he forced himself to take a mouthful of pigeon. 

“How’s Palebird?” Bess’s question took him by 
surprise. She was looking up from the squirrel carcass, 
her eyes bright with interest. 

“Palebird?” Talltail echoed dumbly. Up till now, he’d 
managed to block thoughts of WindClan from his mind. 

“And Whiteberry,” Reena purred. 

“Are the tunnelers getting used to not tunneling?” 
Mole asked. 

Talltail blinked at them, mind whirlng. He never 
imagined he’d speak his Clanmates’ names again. 


“Palebird had Woollytail’s kits,” he told Bess. 

“That’s wonderful!” Bess’s eyes flashed with joy. 

Talltail spat out a feather. “It’s great,” he lied. 

Reena swallowed a mouthful. “How old are they?” 

“A quarter moon when I left.” He pictured Wrenkit, 
Rabbitkit, Flykit, and Bristlekit crowding around his 
legs, tails high, squeaking with excitement. Their voices 
echoed in his mind. 

Give us a badger ride! 

Can we come? 

Can I decide my own warrior name? 

He closed his eyes, surprised by the sharp pang that 
stabbed his heart. 

“How could you bear to leave them?” Reena’s mew 
cut into his thoughts. 

“They’re happier without me,” he growled, burying 
his muzzle into the soft flesh of the pigeon. 

“Leave him be, Reena.” Algernon’s mew was 
gentle. “He’s had a long journey. We can ask all our 
questions tomorrow, when he’s rested.” 

The moon was glowing through the branches. Night 
wrapped the forest in silence. Far away, beyond the 
trees, a fox barked shrilly. 


Jake licked his lips. “I’m exhausted.” He stretched 
and climbed into his nest. 

Talltail nosed the remains of the pigeon toward 
Algernon. “Thanks for the prey.” He climbed into the 
nest beside Jake’s, their fur touching. Jake’s warmth 
eased the racing of his heart as he watched Algernon 
and Mole gather the prey-scraps and hide them under 
the holly bush. Reena and Bess settled in their nests 
beside the bracken. Algernon curled up beside Mole 
between the roots of the oak. Sparrow circled down 
into a thick pile of leaves in a shadowy corner of the 
camp. 

Talltail watched through narrowed eyes as Sparrow 
stirred in his nest, no more than a shape in the 
darkness. Flexing his claws, he let his lip curl as he 
stared at Sparrow. You killed my father. His thoughts 
hardened, like stone shaped in fire. Now, I will kill 
you. 


j 
a 





CHAPTER 36 
te 


ko 


“Arent you used to forest hunting yet?” Reena 
caled over her shoulder as she streaked ahead, 
zigzagging between the trees. She was chasing a 
squirrel. 

Talltail stumbled on a stone that rocked beneath his 


paw. He blinked with surprise as Jake overtook him, 
leaping a frosty log and gaining on Reena. “How’d you 
get so good at this?” Talltail puffed, dodging a branch a 
moment before it hit his muzzle. 

“Its a bit like alley running.” Jake disappeared 
through a wall of bracken. 

Talltail pelted after him, the stems crunching as he 
dived through them. Milky sunshine seeped through 
gray cloud. An icy wind whipped flecks of snow 
through the trees. He had lost sight of Reena through 
the bracken. As he plunged after her, he heard her 
angry mew ahead. 

“Dog dirt!” 

He broke from the stems to see her staring up the 
trunk of an ash tree. Above, a fluffy tail flicked away 
between the branches. 

Jake circled beside her. “Can you climb up after it?” 

“Not that high,” Reena mewed sulkily. 

Talltail stopped beside them, his flanks heaving. 
“Why don’t we try the field?” 

Jake stared at him. “The one with the monsters?” 

Reena dragged her gaze away from the 
disappearing squirrel. “They won’t be there today,” she 


meowed. “They only come sometimes.” 

“Great.” Talltail tasted the air, picking up the scent 
of grass, and headed past the tree. He was sick of 
struggling through woodland. A run across the field 
would help stretch his muscles. Sleeping so close to 
Sparrow had knotted them until it ached to stand still. 
The wind might blow my thoughts clear, too. He’d 
spent most of the night wondering how to take his 
revenge on Sparrow. One plan replaced another until 
his head hurt. None of them seemed right. The only 
thing he was sure of was that he had to gain Sparrow’s 
trust enough to get him alone. 

Does he trust me already? It was hard to tell what 
the brown rogue was thinking. His pale stare gave 
nothing away. I dont even know if he realizes he 
caused Sandgorse ï death. 

Anger flared in Talltail’s belly and he broke into a 
run. “I see the field!” he called to Reena and Jake. 

The pale dawn brightened the trees ahead. Talltail 
scrambled around a clump of ferns, paws skidding on 
the icy leaves. Digging in with his claws, he raced for 
the light, excitement surging through him as he broke 
onto frost-whitened grass. The slope stretched ahead. 


Looking up the hillside, he could see the scars the 
monsters had left behind. Thunderpath stench pricked 
his nose as he headed across the slope. 

“Wait for us!” Reena caught up first, Jake reaching 
them a moment later. 

“Are you really going to catch a rabbit?” Jake 
panted. 

“If I can find one.” Talltail opened his mouth and let 
the snow-flecked wind spray his tongue. He tasted the 
familiar musk of rabbit. “Come on.” He led the way 
across the grass. 

Reena purred. “It’s great having young cats to hunt 
with.” Her eye caught Talltail’s. “And I’m glad you’ ve 
stopped being such a grumpy old badger.” 

Jake fell in beside her. “Talltail’s not grumpy.” 

Talltail glanced at his friend. Should he remind Jake 
how bad-tempered he’d been when the Twoleg had 
locked him in Jake’s den? 

“When I was staying with WindClan,’ Reena 
recalled, “I hardly dared talk to him. I was scared of 
getting my head bitten off!” 

“We’re here to chase rabbit, remember?” Talltail 
muttered, memories of his grief flooding back. 


“See?” Reena flicked her ears at Jake. “Grumpy old 
badger.” 

“He’s not grumpy with me.” Jake wound past 
Talltail, lifting his tail. 

Reena shrugged and sat down. “Any sign of 
rabbit?” she asked Talltail. 

“They must still be asleep.” The sun was lifting 
above the horizon. The wind whisked the frosty grass, 
scattering tiny dots of snow. 

“I wish they’d wake up.” Jake sighed. “I’m 
hungry.” 

“You’re probably missing kittypet food.” Reena 
licked her paw. 

“Maybe,” Jake conceded. “Catching your food is 
hard work.” 

Its even harder when you’ve elders and kits to 
hunt for, too. Talltail’s pelt pricked as he wondered 
how WindClan was surviving leaf-bare. Had they 
stocked enough prey? Colder weather was on the way 
and without the tunnels to hunt in, prey might be 
scarcer than Heatherstar had predicted. 

Its their problem now. I just have to look after 
myself. And Jake. He looked at his friend, wondering 


how long they had together before the kittypet returned 
to his Twoleg. A sharp pain stabbed his heart. 

“Aren’t you embarrassed?” Reena asked Jake 
suddenly. 

Jake blinked at her. “Embarrassed?” 

“A bout being a kittypet.” 

“Why?” He sounded confused. 

“Taking food from a Twoleg.” Reena’s wide gaze 
was curious. “It’s undignified for a cat.” 

“Ts it?” Jake tipped his head on one side. 

“A cat should rely on itself, not the kindness of 
Twolegs,” Reena argued. 

“I was born a kittypet,’ Jake pointed out. “I’m not 
doing any harm.” He stared across the field. “And if 
I’m eating kittypet food, it means there’s more prey for 
rogues like you.” He nodded toward a distant tussock. 
“Did something move over there?” 

Talltail followed his gaze. “Yes!” His paws pricked 
as he saw rabbit ears twitch in the grass downslope. 
He flicked his tail at Reena. “See?” he challenged. 
“Even a kittypet has the same instincts as we do.” 

Reena’s eyes sparkled. “I bet he can’t catch it, 
though.” She padded past Talltail, her tail brushing his 


flank. “Not like you.” 

Talltail’s fur rippled. He glanced self-consciously at 
Jake, but Jake was staring across the field at the 
twitching ears. 

“What now?” Jake asked. 

Talltail waved his tail upslope. “You two head up 
there and circle around it.” 

“Like we caught the thrush!” Jake’s eyes glowed. 

Talltail nodded. “PI stalk it from here. Then we’ll 
see which way it runs.” 

As Reena and Jake headed uphill, Talltail dropped 
into a crouch and ran low, as fast as a swooping hawk. 
The wind streamed past his ears and filled them with 
snow till he could only hear his own heartbeat. As he 
neared the rabbit he stopped and watched. It was 
munching the tips of the grass, lifting its head from 
time to time to peer nervously around. Talltail glanced 
upslope. Reena was nudging Jake into a crouch until 
they were both stalking low, circling wide around their 
prey and halting a little way past it. 

Talltail lifted his head just high enough to catch 
Jake’s eye. Jake stared at him, questioning. Talltail 
nodded. Jake and Reena stalked forward. Talltail 


closed in. The rabbit was halfway between them, head 
down, ears flattened now against its spine. The warm 
smell of it bathed Talltail’s tongue. His belly rumbled. 
He padded closer, gaze fixed on its brown pelt. He 
glimpsed the ginger and orange pelts of Reena and 
Jake beyond. Another few paces and he’d be within 
pouncing distance. He quickened his step, eager to 
reach it before Reena. He wanted to carry this catch 
home to the rogues. It would help earn Sparrow’s 
trust. 

If only the brown rogue would choke on tt. 

Rage stirred as Talltail realized he was hunting for 
the cat who’d killed his father. A growl rumbled in his 
throat. The rabbit lifted its head, eyes sparking with 
panic. It heard me! Furious, Talltail leaped for it. The 
rabbit shot away, eyes widening in terror as it spotted 
Jake and Reena lunging from the other side. It headed 
downhill, pelting through the thickening snowfall. 

Talltail hared after it, his paws thrumming, wind 
howling in his ears. The field sloped steeper. He 
narrowed his eyes against the snow, his gaze focused 
on the brown pelt of the rabbit. 

“Talltail!” A panicked yowl sounded from behind. 


Reena? He could hardly hear for the wind and the 
roaring of the blood in his ears. It felt great to be 
tearing over the grass again, the scent of prey in his 
nose, no branches to trip on, no trees to swerve 
around. He was gaining on the rabbit easily. Just so 
long as it didn’t have a burrow to dive down. And even 
if it did, he could chase it inside. J’m a tunneler 5 son. 
With a rush of triumph Talltail sprang and landed 
squarely on the rabbit. 

“Talltail!” Reena’s terrified shriek sounded through 
the wind as he skidded down the slope, snow spraying 
from beneath his paws. He grabbed the rabbit in his 
jaws and, swinging it up, crunched through its spine. It 
stopped struggling and hung limply in Talltail’s mouth. 

Reena was racing toward him. Jake’s orange pelt 
flashed behind. “Don’t move!” Reena screeched. 

“Why?” Talltail dropped the rabbit and stared as 
Reena scrambled to a halt a tail-length ahead of him. 

“Just walk toward me,” Reena ordered. 

Bewildered by the terror in her eyes, Talltail picked 
up the rabbit and padded toward her. She weaved 
around him, herding him farther up the slope, her pelt 
bristling. 


“What’s wrong?” Talltail asked. 

“You nearly went over the edge,” Reena croaked. 

“What edge?” Talltail glanced back through the 
blizzarding snow. 

“That’s a cliff.” 

“Like the gorge?” Talltail stiffened, remembering his 
first day as an apprentice, when he nearly fell into the 
river. 

“Worse.” Swallowing, Reena padded warily 
forward. 

Talltail followed her, stopping when she stopped and 
peering over the edge of a steep, sandy cliff. Through 
the snow, he saw monsters hurtling below them along a 
huge Thunderpath. It cut through the gorge like a wide, 
angry river. He flinched as wind from the monsters’ 
backs ruffled his whiskers. 

“You stopped just in time.” Jake halted beside him 
and stared down. His ears flattened when he saw the 
monsters streaming along the gorge, teeming like fish 
in a river. “You would have been killed if you’d fallen 
down there.” 

Talltail swallowed. He’d nearly died! The snow had 
hidden the Thunderpath’s sound and scent. He was 


lucky he’d caught up with the rabbit when he did. 
Another tai-length . . . He pictured plunging down, 
down, down, a monster hurtling toward him. He closed 
his eyes. 7 could have been killed. 

An idea flared inside his mind. He trembled, not with 
fear but excitement. Thats how I'll do it! All he had 
to do was lure Sparrow here. One push and the 
murdering rogue would plunge down beneath the paws 
of a monster. 

Talltail’s heart pounded in his chest. Sandgorse! 1 
promised you I’d avenge your death. Sparrow will 
never harm another cat again. 





Talltail twitched in his nest as a dream wound its 
way into his sleep. With his fur lifted by the wind, he 
stepped onto a broad, sloping moor. Heather trembled 
in the distance and grass streamed around his paws. A 
hole yawned in the ground beside him. Talltail trembled 


as he peered inside. Darkness sucked him in, drawing 
him down through the tunnel before he could stop 
himself. He struggled to find his paws, scrabbling 
against the muddy walls, the scent of water and earth 
filling his mouth. 

“Talltail!”” Sandgorse’s agonized yowl echoed from 
the shadows. 

Through the darkness, Talltail could see the 
anguished face of his father, half-buried in mud. 
Lunging forward, he reached for Sandgorse’s scruff 
and dragged him backward, hauling him, heavy as 
stone, up toward sky and wind. Bursting out onto the 
moor-top, he laid his father on the streaming grass. 
“Sandgorse!”” 

Mud bubbled at Sandgorse’s lips. His flanks 
quivered weakly. Eyes closed, he twitched and fell still. 

‘Don’t die.” Talltail crouched down and pressed his 
nose against Sandgorse’s cheek. 

Sandgorse’s eyes blinked open. 

Talltail jerked back, pelt bushing up. “You’re alive?” 

Sandgorse stared at him blankly, his eyes black as 
night. 

“Sandgorse?” Talltail thrust his muzzle against his 


father’s fur. “It’s me, Talltail. I’m going to avenge you. 
Your death won’t go unpunished. Sparrow will pay for 
what he did!” 

Sandgorse’s head lolled, his eyes gazing back 
emptily for a moment before they closed. Talltail felt 
his father’s body slump against him. I’m alone now. 
Talltail yowled to the starless sky while grief scorched 
through him, as pitiless as fire. 

“Talltail?” A muzzle poked his shudder. Talltail 
blinked open his eyes, dazed. “Talltail!” Jake’s face 
loomed above him. 

Talltail jerked his head up. “Is it dawn?” He stared 
blearily around the rogues’ camp. Shadow swallowed 
the clearing. 

“Not yet,’ Jake soothed. “You were twitching in 
your sleep. I was worried.” 

“It was a bad dream.” Talltail looked into Jake’s 
steady gaze, comforted by his friend’s soft, sleep-hazy 
scent. 

Jake curled down beside him. “Go back to sleep.” 

Talltail pressed closer, grateful for Jake’s warmth, 
and closed his eyes. His dream flashed in his mind. 
Over and over, he watched Sandgorse die, his belly 


tightening each time. As Jake relaxed beside him and 
drifted into sleep, Talltail’s tail-tip twitched. 

A nest rustled across the clearing. Talltail snapped 
open his eyes. He saw a shadow move from 
Sparrow’s nest. Where was the rogue going? Holding 
his breath, Talltail strained to see through the darkness. 
He could just make out Sparrow as he slid into the 
bracken. Was he going hunting? 

This is my chance. Talltail leaped to his paws, 
leaves rustling beneath him. /’// ask to join him. He 
hopped out of his nest. PH lead him to the cliff. The 
fur rippled excitedly along his spine. 

“Talltail?” Reena was blinking at him from her nest, 
her eyes shining in the darkness. “Where are you 
going?” 

Talltail froze. “I saw Sparrow head into the woods,” 
he whispered. “I wanted to see if he was hunting so I 
could join him.” 

“Sparrow doesn’t like company when he goes out 
early,” Reena warned him. 

Talltail’s pelt pricked with frustration. “He might like 
mine.” 

“I wouldn’t risk it.” Reena stood up and stretched. 


“You can hunt with me, if you want.” 

Talltail shook his head. “I'll get some more sleep, 
thanks.” He left her staring at him, round-eyed, and 
climbed back into his nest. Jake didn’t stir as he curled 
down beside him. Talltail’s paws itched. How much 
longer would he have to wait? 

It was dawn by the time the rogue padded back into 
camp. Weak daylight was filtering though the 
branches. Thick clouds hid the sun, and snow was 
flecking the forest, settling lightly on top of yesterday’s 
thin coating. Talltail stretched in his nest and pretended 
to yawn, then trotted into the clearing. 

Sparrow was carrying a fat pigeon in his jaws. He 
dropped it and met Talltail’s gaze. “Have you just 
woken up?” 

“Yes,” Talltail lied. He glanced at Sparrow’s catch. 
“Another pigeon?” He remembered what the rogue 
had told them. J’ve found a place where the Twolegs 
scatter grain. There'll be pigeons coming for as 
long as it there. 

“The Twolegs leave food for them in the field,” 
Sparrow reminded him. 

Talltail’s ears pricked. “In the field?” 


“Near the Thunderpath.” Sparrow padded to a pool 
of snowmelt caught in the crook of a twisted root and 
began to drink. 

Talltail’s thoughts quickened. Can I persuade him 
to take me hunting there? 

“Pigeon!” Bess’s delighted mew interrupted his 
plans. She hopped out of her nest and sniffed the 
fresh-kill. Still warm, it was melting the thin snow 
beneath it. Reena hurried to join her, licking her lips 
while Mole stretched in his nest. Jake was still 
sleeping, a light coat of snowflakes dappling his fur. 

“Will you take me there?” Talltail called to Sparrow. 

“Where?” Sparrow glanced around. 

“Where the pigeons come.” Talltail pressed back 
excitement. 

Sparrow shrugged. “Okay.” 

Talltail felt the need to explain. “I want to hunt for 
you. To thank you for letting us stay.” 

Jake stirred in his nest, lifting his head. “Who’s 
letting us stay?” 

Sparrow gazed impassively at Jake. “No one’s 
letting anyone stay.” He licked water from his lps. 
“You’re just sharing the camp for now.” 


Talltail dipped his head. “Of course.” 

Reena rolled the pigeon over. “They can stay, 
though, can’t they?” 

Bess’s gaze darkened. “Warriors and kittypets don’t 
belong with rogues,” she murmured. 

‘T’m not a warrior. m a—” Talltail hesitated. The 
words had come before he’d had chance to think. 

Jake hopped out of his nest. “You'll always be a 
warrior, Talltail.” He shook the snow from his fur. 
“Just like I'll always be a kittypet.” 

Algernon padded from his nest. “And we’ll always 
be rogues.” He stretched, nose twitching. “Who 
caught the pigeon?” 

“Sparrow.” Bess looked fondly at the brown tom. 

Talltail’s pelt pricked. “Come on, Jake.” He padded 
toward the bracken. “Let’s practice your stalking.” 

“Stalking?” Jake blinked at him. “Aren’t we eating 
first?” He glanced at the pigeon. 

“Later.” Talltail stared at Jake. J want to talk to 
you. In private! He willed Jake to understand, relieved 
when Jake padded toward him. “We might catch 
something while we’re practicing,” Talltail went on. He 
led the way into the woods, nosing through the 


bracken. Snow fluttered onto his spine as he pushed 
between the stems. 

“What should we stalk?” Jake asked when they 
emerged into a narrow clearing. 

Talltail paced the leaf-strewn forest floor. “Did you 
hear?” he demanded. 

“Hear what?” Jake was looking distractedly around 
the woodland. 

“Sparrow!” Had Jake forgotten why they’d come 
here? 

“What?” 

“He’s taking me hunting beside the cliff.” 

Jake stiffened. “You’re not thinking of—” 

“Of course!” Talltail cut in. “That’s why we’re here. 
It’s the perfect place. No fighting. No explanations. I 
just need to time it right and I can give him a push.” 

“Onto the Thunderpath?” Jake’s eyes widened in 
horror. 

“It’s perfect!” Talltail insisted. “He’ll pay for my 
father’s death beneath the paws of a monster.” 

“Don’t do it, Talltail.” 

Talltail narrowed his eyes. “You said you would help 


33 


me. 


“Do you really want to kill a cat?” 

“Tf Pd stayed in WindClan, I’d have probably killed 
a cat in battle by now!” 

“In battle,’ Jake pointed out. “Thats different. 
Killing in the heat of battle, to defend your Clanmates 
—that makes sense. But to kill a cat moons later—” 

“He never understood the damage he did.” Talltail 
curled his lip. “That’s why he must be punished. To 
make him sorry.” 

“Just tell him!” Jake’s fur rose along his spine. 
“Make him understand. How Sandgorse’s death hurt 
you, and how you feel he’s responsible.” 

Talltail glared at Jake. “Don’t you think I tried that 
when Sandgorse died? He wouldn’t admit it. Even 
when I told him to his whiskers that he killed 
Sandgorse, he just shrugged it off, like he shrugs 
everything off. He doesn’t care about anything. So ’m 
going to make him care about this.” 

“By killing him?” Jake shook his head. “I know you, 
Talltail, You’re not a killer. You’d die to defend those 
you love. But kill a cat you hardly know?” He shook 
his head. “I don’t think so.” 

“He has to pay!” Talltail hissed. Why was Jake 


arguing? Was that why he’d come? To stop Talltail 
from doing the one thing he’d sworn he would do—the 
one thing that would make sense of his life? “If no one 
pays for Sandgorse’s death, then it’s not fair!” 

“Life isn’t fair!” 

“It’s not fair to me!” Talltail realized that he was 
shaking with fury. 

Jake gazed at him. “Don’t do this, Talltail”’ he 
begged softly. “Please.” 

“I have to!” Talltail snarled. “If you don’t agree, 
then go home. You’re no use to me.” Raging, he 
stamped away, pushing through brambles and barging 
past hawthorns, too angry to feel their thorns scrape 
his muzzle. Even Jake had betrayed him! Why had 
Talltail trusted him? Why had he trusted anyone? 
Hadn’t he learned that he could only rely on himself? 7 
came here for revenge and I’m going to get it! 


Snow flurries came and went. The wind grew 
colder. Shivering and hungry, Talltail headed back to 
camp. “Can we hunt now?” he asked Sparrow as he 
padded into the clearing. 

Sparrow looked up from his nest. “There’s fresh-kill 


under the holly bush.” 

“What about the pigeons?” Talltail pressed. 

“They'll be wary after this morning,’ Sparrow 
warned. “Let’s wait until tomorrow. We don’t want to 
scare them off for good.” 

Frustrated, Talltail paced the camp. 

‘TI hunt with you.” Reena’s offer came as a relief. 
But woodland hunting only made Talltail more restless, 
even though he and Reena caught a squirrel and a fat 
blackbird. Back in camp, Talltail avoided Jake’s gaze, 
though he could feel the kittypet watching him in 
silence. As dusk darkened into night, they shared 
fresh-kill with the rogues. Then Talltail climbed into his 
nest. 

“Are you tired already?” Reena called. “I thought 
we could go for a walk.” 

“Its a bit cold for a nighttime walk,” he grunted, 
resting his muzzle on his paws. 

‘TIl go with you, Reena,” Jake offered. 

Reena blinked. “No, thanks.” She sighed. “Talltail’s 
right. It’s too cold.” 

Jake’s fur twitched. He glanced around at the 
rogues, then climbed into the nest, curling up a muzzle- 


length away from Talltail. 

Talltail swallowed back a growl and stared at 
Sparrow. The rogue was calmly washing in his nest. 
Tomorrow. Talltail’s heart was racing too fast to sleep. 
Fury throbbed beneath his pelt. His claws ached as he 
curled and uncurled them, picturing Sparrow hurtling 
into the gorge, a monster racing toward him as he 
landed on the hard stone. 

Above the trees, the sky cleared slowly, the moon 
showing just as dawn began to push back the night. As 
soon as milky light showed over the horizon, Talltail 
hopped out of his nest. He crossed the camp and thrust 
his nose close to Sparrow’s ear. “Let’s hunt!” he 
meowed. 

Sparrow lifted his head, blinking. “Now?” He 
glanced at the dark blue sky. “The sun’s not even up.” 

“I thought you liked early hunting.” Talltail stepped 
back, whisking his tail. “The pigeons will hardly be 
awake. If we get there before them, we can choose a 
good hiding spot.” 

“You sound like a warrior planning a patrol.” 
Sparrow narrowed his eyes. “I thought you'd left the 
Clan to get away from rules and duties.” 


“Hunting isn’t a duty,” Talltail muttered. “It’s fun.” 

Sparrow yawned and climbed out of his nest. 
“Come on, then.” He headed into the forest. 

Talltail stalked him through the silent dawn, keeping 
a muzzle-length behind. Blood roared in his ears. 
Sparrow was prey to him now, more deserving of his 
death than any mouse or pigeon. Talltail’s heart 
pounded harder until his whole body seemed to ring 
with its beat. Images flashed in his mind. He saw 
Sandgorse struggling to escape from the collapsing 
tunnel, pinned by the earth, mud blocking his yowls as 
he fought desperately to escape. Ahead, Sparrow’s tail 
disappeared as he threaded through a dense laurel 
bush. Was Sparrow’s tail-tip the last thing Sandgorse 
had ever seen? Talltail pushed after him through the 
waxy leaves, clenching his teeth to stop himself from 
growling. 

As they reached the field, Sparrow slowed. “The 
grain is over there.” He nodded downslope toward a 
smooth stretch of grass. It rippled in the light breeze, 
gray in the pale dawn light. 

Talltail headed toward the cliff. “Let’s check the 
Thunderpath first.” 


“What for?” Sparrow called, trotting after him. 

“Crows would pick fresh-kill from the Thunderpath 
back home.” Home? He corrected himself quickly. 
“Back in WindClan territory.” 

“What good is that to us?” Sparrow fell in beside 
him. “Who eats crow-food? Or crows? The cliff’s too 
steep to climb down anyway.” 

“Ts it?” Talltail asked innocently. 

“Come on.” Sparrow veered toward the patch of 
smooth grass. “Let’s wait for a pigeon.” 

“Let’s look at the Thunderpath.” Talltail struggled 
not to growl Was Sparrow going to make this 
impossible? He uncurled his claws, ready to fight the 
rogue if he had to. 

“Okay.” Sparrow shrugged. “If that’s what you 
want.” 

Talltail glanced over his shoulder, relieved to see 
Sparrow following him toward the cliff. He could smell 
the tang of stone and monsters, and as he neared the 
edge, he slowed. 

“Any sign of crow-food?” Sparrow grunted, padding 
past him and peering over the edge. 

Elation thrilled through Talltail. 


Sparrow leaned forward. “I can’t see anything.” 

Talltail lifted his paws, ready to slam them into 
Sparrow’s flank. Heat pulsed through his pelt. This 
was it. He was finally avenging Sandgorse’s death. 
Are you watching, Sandgorse? I’m punishing this 
cat for you! Can you see? 

“Talltail?” Sparrow turned, his paws crumbling earth 
over the cliff edge. “What’s the matter? You look 
odd.” 

Talltail stretched his claws. “Take a good look at me, 
Sparrow. I’m the last cat you’re ever going to see. I 
brought you here to kill you,” he hissed. 

“Kill me?” Sparrow’s pelt rippled. “Why?” 

Talltail felt cold air pierce his fur. “Don’t you 
know?” He dropped onto all fours. Couldn’t this 
heartless rogue even guess? 

For the first time, emotion sparked in Sparrow’s 
gaze. “Tell me.” 

“You killed my father.” The words caught in 
Talltail’s throat. 

“Sandgorse?” 

“You made him go into that tunnel!” Talltail found he 
was shaking. “You left him there to die.” 


Sparrow blinked. “That’s not how it happened.” 

Talltail hissed. “I saw you run from the tunnel like a 
frightened rabbit! You left my father behind!” 

“I didn’t know what to do. I’m no warrior.” Sparrow 
glanced over the edge. “I had no training. Your father 
knew that. He gave his life so that I could escape. 
That’s why he died. He held back the earth long 
enough for me to run.” 

He held back the earth. Talltail’s head began to 
spin. A monster sounded in the distance, its roar 
echoing through the still dawn air. 

Sparrow edged closer. “He died a hero, Talltail.” 

“Why should I believe you?” Rage swept through 
Talltail, Why wait till now to tell him? The rogue must 
be lying. 

‘Don’t you believe that Sandgorse would give his 
life to save me?” Sparrow turned his head toward the 
monster as it rumbled beyond the gorge. 

He’s playing with me like m the prey! Talltail 
curled his claws into the grass. He’d waited too long 
for this moment. Sparrow wasn’t going to take it away 
from him. His ear fur trembled as the monster 
thundered closer. Its yellow eye beams showed faintly 


on the cliff face. 

Just push him! 

“So you’re going to kill me?” Sparrow breathed. “A 
life for a life? Is that part of the warrior code?” 

“You know nothing of the warrior code,” Talltail 
snarled. 

“I know courage. Your father showed it when he 
helped me escape.” 

Talltail’s breath caught in his throat. Sandgorse was 
brave. He would have given his life for another cat. 

“This isn’t courage, Talltail,”’ Sparrow pressed. 
“Killing me won’t bring Sandgorse back.” 

Jake’s words flashed in Talltail’s mind. J know you, 
Talltail. You’re not a killer. Sandgorse’s voice joined 
Jake’s. Another cats life is as precious as your 
own. Talltail’s thoughts whirled. What if hes telling 
the truth? Alarm ripped though his chest. J can t kill 
him, Sandgorse. I’m sorry! 

As he backed away from Sparrow, the ground 
trembled. Talltail glanced along the Thunderpath. The 
monster was coming, shaking the earth. “Let’s get 
away from here.” 

Sparrow’s eyes widened. “Help!” He jerked 


clumsily backward as the cliff started to give way 
beneath his paws. “I’m falling!” 

Talltail flung out a paw, reaching for the rogue’s pelt. 
He felt fur brush his claw-tips as they curled around 
thin air. 

Then Sparrow disappeared. 





Talltail flung himself onto the grass and wriggled 
forward to peer over the edge. Sparrow was slithering 
down the cliff face, showering grit as he fought to get 
a grip. “Talltail!’” he wailed, a moment before he 
landed with a thump on the Thunderpath. 


There was a heartbeat of ominous silence; then the 
gorge echoed with the roar of a monster as it howled 
closer. Sparrow scrambled to his paws and darted 
back and forth, pressing close to the cliff. Talltail 
stared down at him in horror. The smooth, black stone 
reached right to the edge of the Thunderpath. There 
was nowhere for Sparrow to hide. 

The eyes of the monster lit up the curve. 

“Help me!” Sparrow reached up with his front 
paws, trying to get a clawhold. “Help me up!” His 
mew was sharp with terror. He jumped, clinging to the 
sandy stone, but it crumbled in his claws and he 
tumbled back onto the hard, gray Thunderpath. 
“Talltail! Help!” 

I have to save him! Talltail stared around 
desperately. How? A thought struck him. There must 
be ditches somewhere along the Thunderpath, like 
the ones near WindClan land. Without them, the 
gorge would become a river when it rained. If there 
was a ditch close by, they could hide inside while the 
monster went past. If they reached the ditch ahead of 
the monster. And if the ditch was big enough for two 
cats. If, if, if... 


Talltail scrambled over the edge. He half skidded, 
half fell down the steep, sandy cliff, landing heavily 
beside Sparrow. 

Sparrow blinked. “What are you doing?” 

“Follow me!” Talltail hared along the Thunderpath. 
He glanced behind him. Sparrow was on his heels, his 
eyes huge with fear. Behind him, the vast head of a 
gleaming black monster loomed around the curve. 
“Run!” Paws burning, Talltail raced over the hard 
black stone. The gorge thrummed with the monster’s 
roar. Talltail flattened his ears, pushing harder, 
stretching further with every paw step. 

He scanned the edges of the Thunderpath, straining 
to see a hiding place carved somewhere in the rock. 
Ahead, a shadow darkened the stone where the 
Thunderpath touched the rugged rock of the gorge. 
Talltail’s heart leaped. As he raced nearer, he could a 
see channel dug into the ground, just wide enough for a 
cat. Talltail sprang into it and looked back at Sparrow. 

The terrified rogue was several tail-lengths behind. 
The monster thundered after him, so huge it blocked 


the sky. 
“Hurry!” Talltail shrieked. 


As Sparrow neared, Talltail reached up and grabbed 
the rogue’s pelt. Sinking his claws into the dense fur, 
Talltail hauled him into the narrow ditch. Stones 
battered his flanks and the earth shook beneath him. 
Foul wind tugged his fur. He shuddered with terror, his 
flesh shrinking beneath his pelt as the monster hurtled 
past. 

“Sparrow?” Talltail scrambled backward and looked 
at the cat squashed beneath him. 

Sparrow lifted his head. ““We’re alive!” 

Talltail tried to stop himself from trembling. Dawn 
was lighting the sky. More monsters would be coming 
soon. “We have to get out of here.” Could they make it 
to the end of the gorge without meeting another? 

Sparrow seemed to guess what he was thinking. 
The rogue’s gaze flicked past Talltail. “What about that 
way?” he suggested. 

Talltail wriggled around in the narrow space. 
Sparrow had spotted a small tunnel that opened into 
the ditch. That must have been where the rainwater 
flowed out. Talltail padded toward it and sniffed the 
darkness. Fresh air washed over his muzzle. “Good 
idea.” He beckoned Sparrow with a nod and started to 


duck inside. 

He paused when there was no sound of paw steps 
following. Looking back, he saw Sparrow staring wide- 
eyed at the mouth of the tunnel, fur bristling and claws 
unsheathed. Talltail looked at the tunnel, then at 
Sparrow again. A pang of sharp emotion—pity, sorrow, 
even guilt—stabbed his belly. The last time Sparrow 
had entered a tunnel, he had barely escaped—and the 
other cat had died. 

“Come on,” Talltail mewed. “It’s perfectly safe, I 
promise.” 

Sparrow took a step forward. His fur still stood on 
end. 

“Stay close to me,” Talltail told him. “You'll be fine.” 
He ducked his head and walked into the tunnel. The 
sides were round and smooth, made of hard, gray 
stone rather than hewn from wet earth. Talltail’s claws 
skittered on the surface. Sheathing them, he padded 
cautiously on. He could hear Sparrow’s pelt brushing 
the walls behind him. Darkness swallowed them and 
Talltail quickened his pace. He told himself that this 
tunnel would not collapse, that they would be out soon 
because he could feel air being funneled toward them, 


rich with the scent of grass. For a moment, he 
imagined how terrifying it must have been for Sparrow 
when the gorge tunnel collapsed around him. Talltail 
knew what it was like to feel mud and earth raining 
down on him, but when he had been in a tunnel 
accident, every other cat had made it out alive. 

“You're doing great,” he called over his shoulder. 

“Thank you.” Sparrow’s mew echoed close behind, 
his breath warm on Talltail’s hindquarters. 

Talltail felt numb. Because of him, Sparrow had 
nearly died falling off the cliff. And now, because of 
him, Sparrow was alive. This wasn’t what he had 
planned. He felt like he was walking in another cat’s 
body. 

Sparrow’s muzzle touched his tail-tip. “I’m sorry 
your father died.” The rogue’s words were hardly 
more than a breath, but they rang around Talltail like 
spiraling wind. “It was an accident. Sandgorse saved 
my life. And PI never forget him.” 

Of course Sandgorse saved him. Talltail’s throat 
tightened. 

“When we don’t know the truth, we invent stories to 
fill the gaps,” Sparrow went on quietly. “Sometimes it’s 


the only way we have to make sense of our lives.” 

“Why didn’t you tell me what really happened?” 
Talltail asked. “At the time?” 

“I didn’t think you’d believe me,’ Sparrow 
confessed. “You were so angry—so determined that 
someone must be to blame.” 

Talltail didn’t argue. It was true. 

The end of the tunnel glowed ahead, small at first 
but growing with each paw step until they emerged 
into dazzling, cold daylight. Talltail blinked as his eyes 
adjusted after the gloom. They were close to the 
Thunderpath, but the gorge was gone and meadows 
stretched away on either side. Sparrow stood still, 
taking deep breaths of the sparkling air. 

“Where are we?” Talltail mewed. 

Sparrow flicked his tail. In the distance, woodland 
nestled between two gently rolling hills. “The camp’s 
up there.” He jumped a swathe of long grass and 
pushed through a hedge. Talltail bounded after him. 

They walked in silence across frosty fields until they 
reached the trees. Sparrow seemed to know his way 
and Talltail was happy to let him lead, scrambling over 
logs and sliding into dips as he tried to keep up. He 


scented the camp as they neared a patch of silvery 
bracken. Orange fur flashed in front of it. 

Talltail broke into a run. “Jake? Is that you?” 

Jake was pacing back and forth, his eyes like huge 
moons. He stopped when Talltail reached him. “What 
happened?” he demanded. 

Talltail glanced at Sparrow as the rogue caught up 
with him. Jake blinked in surprise. 

“You didn’t do it!” Jake breathed after Sparrow had 
padded past and pushed through the bracken. 

Talltail sat down wearily. “No.” 

“Why not?” 

“Sandgorse saved him.” 

Jake’s eyes clouded with confusion. “He saved 
him?” 

“It’s what Sandgorse would do.” Now that the rage 
had gone, Talltail wondered how he could ever have 
thought of killing Sparrow. Had grief taken away all his 
faith in the warrior code? 

“I knew it!” Jake paced around him. “I knew you 
couldn’t do it!” 

Talltail’s pelt pricked. What if Sparrow hadnt had 
time to explain? What if I’d pushed him over as a 


monster came into the gorge? What if he’d—? He 
shifted his paws. With cold, crushing certainty, he 
knew that killing Sparrow wouldn’t have changed 
anything. “I let anger change who I am.” He gazed 
helplessly at Jake. 

“No, you didn’t!” Jake argued. “In the end, you let 
Sparrow live. That was being true to yourself, far more 
than you were when you wanted to kill him.” His gaze 
softened. “I know you, Talltail. Your thirst for 
Sparrow’s blood, your belief that only his death would 
change the way you felt—that was never really you.” 

Talltail blinked up at his friend. “You’re right. But 
that’s all I’ve thought about for so long. What do I do 
now?” He felt shaky, as if the path ahead had vanished 
into mist. 

Jake glanced toward the camp. “Does Sparrow 
know you planned to kill him?” 

Talltail’s whiskers twitched. “Oh yes,” he meowed 
grimly. “He knows.” 

“Then we’d better leave,’ Jake murmured. “We 
can’t expect him to share food and shelter with us 
now, even if you did change your mind.” 

Talltail nodded, feeling numb. “I have to say good- 


bye first,” he meowed. 

“Really?” Jake’s fur rippled along his spine. “After 
what you did?” 

“Yes.” Talltail knew he couldn’t vanish without 
telling the other rogues he was leaving. That wouldn’t 
be fair, to let them think they had done something to 
offend him or Jake. “You wait here.” He wove through 
the crisp bracken into the center of the camp. Sparrow 
sat on the far side, washing his paws. 

“Talltail!”” Bess trotted over to him. “Sparrow told us 
you were both nearly killed by a monster!” 

Reena bounded across the clearing. “Are you hurt?” 

Algernon sat up, his ears pricked. “Sparrow said it 
was pretty close.” 

Mole sniffed Talltail’s pelt. “You’ve still got the 
monster’s stench on you.” 

“T’m fine.” Talltail looked at Sparrow. 

Sparrow stared back, his impassive gaze as 
unreadable as ever. 

Talltail dipped his head. “Jake and I must leave 
now.” 

“Now?” Bess sounded surprised. 

“You can’t go yet!” Hurt flashed in Reena’s eyes. 


Sparrow stopped licking for a moment. “They must, 
actually,” he meowed. 

Algernon looked over his shoulder at the brown tom. 

Talltail shifted his paws. “Jake needs to go home,” 
he explained. 

“What about you?” Reena’s muzzle was a whisker 
away from his. “Are you going back to WindClan?” 

‘T’ll see Jake home,” Talltail meowed. After that, 
who knows? 

“I can show you the way,” Reena offered. “I know 
the Twolegplace.” She began to circle him. “If we 
start now we can be there by—” 

Talltail cut her off. “We can find our own way,” he 
told her. Reena flinched as though he’d raked her nose 
with claws. 

Bess pressed against her. “You heard him, Reena.” 
There was sympathy in the she-cat’s mew, and Talltail 
suddenly wondered if Reena had been hoping that 
Talltail would be her mate: that they’d have kits and 
travel together. Had she started to imagine a whole 
new life ahead of them? 

Guilt rippled through his pelt. “I’m sorry, Reena.” 
Part of him wished that he could make her happy. 


Their kits would be brave and strong. Talltail shook the 
thought away. Reena’s path wasn’t his. He was 
destined to travel alone. “PI miss you,” he meowed a 
little awkwardly. 

She touched her muzzle to his cheek. “And PI miss 
you.” 

Sparrow got to his paws. “We won’t be visiting 
WindClan next greenleaf.” 

“Really?” Because of me? Guilt jabbed Talltail’s 
belly. 

“Times have changed,’ Sparrow meowed. “We 
need new paths to roam. Old tracks grow stale.” 

Algernon’s eyes were wide with shock. “You’ve 
decided this just now, have you?” 

Sparrow shook his head. “Not right now, no. But I 
think it’s the right decision. We have our lives; 
WindClan has theirs. Rogues like us don’t belong in 
Clans. The warrior code wasn’t made for us. Right, 
Talltail?” 

Stunned, Talltail nodded. 

Sparrow went back to washing his paws. “Give our 
regards to Heatherstar and Hawkheart,” he mewed. 
“Tell them we wish them well.” 


“I’m sure they would do the same for you,” Talltail 
croaked. He dipped his head to Mole. “Take care.” He 
wondered if the elderly tom would make it through 
many more leaf-bares. 

“Travel well, Talltail,’ Mole rasped. 

“I will.” Turning, Talltail padded from the camp. 

“Good-bye! Good-bye!” Bess and Reena called 
behind him. 

“Watch out for dogs!” warned Algernon. 

“I will,” Talltail muttered. 

What will the Clan think when the rogues dont 
appear next greenleaf? Will they think something 
terrible has happened? Or will they remember 
Sandgorses death, and think that the rogues are 
too ashamed to return? Talltail shook himself. He had 
left WindClan. What they felt about something far in 
the future was not his concern. 

Jake hurried to meet him as he emerged from the 
bracken. “Is everything okay?” 

Talltail nodded, heading between the trees. 

Jake fell in beside him. “Did Sandgorse really save 
Sparrow?” 

Fresh grief welled in Talltail’s throat. “Yes,” he 


meowed thickly. 

Jake pressed against him. “Then your father died a 
hero,” he murmured. 

Talltail couldn’t answer, his eyes clouding. 

They padded through the woods, heading upslope 
until they reached the clearing where they’d first made 
camp. The hollow between the oak roots was still lined 
with wool and Talltail climbed in gratefully, too weary 
to hunt. 

“PI catch something,” Jake offered. He headed 
away, returning as the sun touched the tops of the 
trees. He was carrying a tattered, old blackbird. 

Talltail wrinkled his nose. “Couldn’t you find one 
that was even older?” he teased, climbing out to sniff 
the ancient bird. 

Jake lifted his muzzle. “I caught it, didn’t I?” He 
took a bite, screwing up his face as he chewed the 
tough flesh. 

Talltail bit into the bird. The blackbird was more 
sinew than meat, but he swallowed it anyway, grateful 
for Jake’s new hunting skills. 

“Will you go home now?” Jake’s mew was muffled 
by feathers. 


“I don’t know if I have a home.” Talltail took 
another bite. 

“Of course you do!” Jake struggled to swallow. 
“You have WindClan!” 

“T left WindClan.” 

“They’d let you back.” 

“I thought I’d keep traveling for a while,” Talltail 
muttered. “Would you like that?” 

Jake took another bite of blackbird and chewed. “I 
think you should go home.” 

“Home?” Talltail blinked at him. “I have no home. I 
don’t even know who I am anymore.” 

Jake leaned forward and rested his muzzle on the 
top of Talltail’s head. His chin felt warm and soft. “I 
know who you are. You’re my best friend, and you 
always will be.” 





Talltail was dreaming. Stars whirled around him, 
twirlng him through blackness. Then he plummeted 
down until the wind pulled at his fur and his eyes 
watered. Exhilaration surged through him as he fell, 
until soft peat touched his pads and Talltail realized he 


was standing on the ground. He blinked, and the 
darkness cleared. Light spilled around him, flooding the 
landscape. Above, a wide, blue sky stretched to the 
horizon. Heather as purple as dusk rippled over the 
soft curve of a hill. Grass, greener than Jake’s eyes, 
lay in swathes between the bushes, its scent so rich it 
made Talltail dizzy. A tawny pelt was slinking through 
the heather. 

Brackenwing! 

Talltail’s heart leaped. He bounded toward the she- 
cat, but she was moving too swiftly. Other pelts 
showed around her—black, gray, tortoiseshell—pelts 
he didn’t recognize. But he knew their scent as well as 
his own. WindClan. He was in StarClan’s hunting 
grounds. 

“Brackenwing!” he called across the heather, but 
Brackenwing didn’t stop. Talltail hurried after her, 
trying to catch the eye of the other cats as he passed. 
But no cat seemed to notice him. A tabby looked 
straight through him as though he didn’t exist. A striped 
tom didn’t flinch as Talltail raced by. 

I must catch Brackenwing! She’ll know me. 

He burst from the heather onto a grassy summit. 


1? 


Brackenwing was looking down into a valley. 

Talltail raced to her side. “It’s me, Talltail!” he cried. 

Brackenwing didn’t move. She just kept staring 
down the slope. Talltail followed her gaze. Cats were 
moving over the grass below. Palebird. Dawnstripe. 
Hareflight. Hickorynose. Talltail’s heart lurched as 
he recognized their pelts. Brackenwing was watching 
what was happening in WindClan territory. Talltail’s 
paws ached with pain that felt like longing. Slowly at 
first, then faster, his feet carried him forward until 
Talltail found himself racing down the slope toward his 
Clanmates. 

“Palebird!” He yowled his mother’s name, the sight 
of her tugging deep in his belly as though she’d hooked 
her claws in and was pulling him closer. Talltail’s 
mother didn’t look around. 

“Dawnstripe!” Surely she would speak to him? But 
his mentor kept padding across the grass, her tail 
down. 

Talltail ran faster. He had to make them see him! 
But his paws grew heavier with each step. The harder 
he pushed, the slower he ran, as though the air around 
him had turned to water and was holding him back. 


“Dawnstripe!” The longing in his paws deepened; 
the claws hooking his belly tugged him harder. But he 
couldn’t get close enough to make the other cats notice 
him. “Dawnstripe!” 

A paw poked his shoulder. “Wake up!” 

Talltail jerked up his head. Jake was nudging him 
with a paw. “Another bad dream?” he meowed. 

Talltail frowned. “Not exactly.” He could still see his 
Clanmates as clearly as if they were in front of him. 
The claws in his belly tugged again. He flinched. 

Jake leaned closer. “Are you okay?” 

Talltail lifted his muzzle and gazed at Jake. “My 
belly hurts. And my paws. As though they’re being 
pulled by something I cannot see.” 

Jake sat back, nodding. “Your home is calling you.” 

“What do you mean?” Talltail pushed himself up. 

A purr rumbled in Jake’s throat. “Don’t you know?” 

Talltail tipped his head on one side. “No.” 

“I guess Clan cats aren’t used to leaving home.” 
Jake sounded amused. “I know the feeling you’re 
having. The nagging pain, the tug in my pelt and paws? 
I get that whenever I’m away from my home too 
long.” 


“Really?” Talltail blinked. “Why?” 

“Every creature needs to belong somewhere,” Jake 
told him. “Your paws know where that is, even if you 
don’t.” 

Suddenly anxious, Talltail hopped out the nest. “But I 
don’t belong anywhere.” 

“Are you sure?” Jake mewed. “What about your 
Clan?” 

“I left my Clan.” Why did everyone act like he had 
just strayed for a while? Talltail glared at Jake. “My 
paws must be calling me somewhere else.” 

Jake shrugged. “Wherever it is, let them guide you. 
The pain won’t go away otherwise.” 

Talltail circled restlessly. “Will you come with me?” 

“For a while.” Jake watched him, his expression 
guarded. 

Talltail stopped. “This feeling I have—do you have it 
too?” Jake nodded, and Talltail felt a tiny, cold stone 
inside his belly. “You want to go back to your Twoleg, 
don’t you?” 

Jake was quiet for a long time. Then he ran one 
front paw lightly over the ground. “That’s where I 
belong,” he mewed. “I can’t stay away forever.” 


“I won’t stop you,” Talltail whispered. But he 
wondered if that was true. He didn’t like the ache in 
his paws, or the claws tugging at his belly. The future 
suddenly stretched into shadow. And he hadn’t even 
done what he’d set out to do—he hadn’t killed 
Sparrow. He knew he’d made the right decision when 
he let the rogue live, but where was the satisfaction? It 
felt like returning from a hunting patrol with no fresh- 
kill for his Clan. He felt lost and empty, and his dumb 
paws were tugging him who knew where. Would he 
really be able to let Jake go? 

“Come on.” Jake headed toward the field. “Let’s 
catch a rabbit first. Last one to that tussock is a fox- 
breath!” 


Jake caught the rabbit. Talltail was impressed. He’d 
chased it, but Jake was the one who veered around to 
cut off its escape and killed it with a single bite. The 
kittypet looked thrilled, his eyes gleaming as he carried 
it back to Talltail. 

“I could teach you warriors a thing or two about 
hunting!” Jake teased as they ate. 

After burying the remains of the rabbit, they climbed 


the craggy summit they’d crossed on their way into the 
valley. Clouds covered the sky, blocking the weak, 
leaf-bare sun. The breeze had lost its icy chill, but it 
was blustery, cold, and damp as it lifted Talltail’s fur. 
He felt better now that his belly was full, the rich 
flavor of fresh-kill distracting him from the invisible 
tugging claws. 

As they reached the top, Jake sat down and gazed 
at the landscape ahead. “What can you see?” 

Talltail squinted through the wind that was battering 
his whiskers. He felt as though he were being 
assessed on Outlook Rock. “Fields.” He recognized 
the first meadow he’d crossed with Jake. More 
meadows stretched around it, surrounding a dark mass 
of walls and dens. “And Twolegplace.” It sprouted in 
the middle of the valley like an ugly forest. 

“What about beyond?” Jake prompted. 

Talltail peered at the smudge of leaf-bare forest on 
the far side. “ThunderClan territory, I guess.” 

“And beyond that?” 

Talltail narrowed his eyes. Where the distant horizon 
met the sky, he could see swathes of brown heather. In 
a few more moons, they’d be greener than grass, 


burgeoning with fresh growth. The moor. His paws 
itched to pull him forward at the sight of his old home. 
He forced himself to stand still, but the effort made his 
heart ache. 

“If we follow the path of a bird”—Jake pointed his 
nose directly toward the moor— “we only need to cut 
through the edge of Twolegplace before we reach 
Clan territory.” 

“Why do we need to go to Clan territory?” Talltail 
nodded toward the fields sweeping on every side. 
“There are so many other places we could go.” 

“But lve always wanted to see where the Clans 
live,’ Jake reminded him. “I’ve looked in from my 
fence so often. Now that I’m with you, I can see the 
territories close up.” 

“T don’t think ThunderClan would be pleased to find 
me showing their home to a kittypet.” 

“Go on,” Jake coaxed. “We won’t get caught. I just 
want to take a look.” He blinked at Talltail. 

Talltail felt a prickle of unease. He couldn’t refuse 
his friend after everything they’d been through. “We’ll 
just look,” he muttered. “Then go somewhere else.” 

Jake didn’t reply, but followed Talltail around the 


rocks to the smooth grass beyond. They skirted the 
hedge, staying outside Twolegplace until a row of dens 
jutted into their path. 

Talltail halted at the bottom of a wooden fence. 
“You lead.” He flicked the tip of his tail. “This is your 
territory, not mine.” 

Jake hopped easily onto the fence, balancing as 
Talltail scrambled up behind him. A maze of fence-tops 
zigzagged ahead. Jake began to pad along them, 
turning one way, then another, as they bypassed row 
after row of gardens. Talltail followed, concentrating 
as he tried to keep his balance on the narrow strip of 
wood despite the buffeting wind. 

His paws ached with the effort by the time they’d 
crossed Twolegplace. As he spotted trees crowding 
beyond the fences, he hurried forward, sliding past 
Jake and taking the lead. There were faint 
ThunderClan scents as he neared. 

Talltail dropped onto the forest floor and began 
sniffing the roots of an elm. No ThunderClan warrior 
had brushed past this bark. He padded on, heading 
deeper into the forest. 

Leaves crunched behind him as Jake caught up. “T 


can smell Thunderpath!” 

Talltail stiffened. They must be near the 
Thunderpath that cut between ThunderClan territory 
and ShadowClan’s forest as it headed close to 
Fourtrees. The claws that had been sunk into his belly 
ever since his dream suddenly tugged harder. 

Jake paced around him, tail flicking excitedly. “The 
moor’s close?” 

“Close enough.” Above, the branches clattered as 
wind stirred the forest. 

“Let’s take a look,” Jake suggested. 

“Its dangerous,” Talltail told him. “We’d have to 
follow the Thunderpath along the ThunderClan 
border.” 

“We’ve done dangerous things before.” Jake began 
to head toward the rumble of the Thunderpath. “Let’s 
go a little farther. I want to see WindClan territory.” 

Talltail wondered if he should argue. But the tugging 
in his belly silenced him. Perhaps a glimpse of his old 
home would remind him why he’d left. Perhaps he 
could keep going: past WindClan territory, past 
Highstones. He could finally see the mountains for 
himself. 


He followed Jake. His thoughts were as jumbled as 
the familiar scents that wreathed around him as he 
headed closer to Clan territory. Memories crowded at 
the edges of his mind: chasing rabbits across the moor; 
sitting vigil on Outlook Rock; plunging through the 
heather with Doespring; the first time he’d outrun 
Stagpaw. Then he pictured Wrenkit and Hopkit 
scrambling clumsily over the tussocks to beg him for a 
badger ride. His heart twisted with a sudden and 
terrible ache. 

“Which way now?” Jake’s call jolted him from his 
thoughts. 

Talltail tasted the air. They were close to the 
Thunderpath. He glanced along the line of thick bushes 
at the forest’s edge, which crowded for light where it 
cut through the trees. “Let’s head along there.” The 
bushes would give them shelter from the Thunderpath, 
and somewhere to hide if a ThunderClan patrol 
passed. 

He led Jake over the leaf-strewn forest floor, 
pushing through frost-withered bracken until he 
reached a long swathe of brambles. Ears straining for 
the sound of ThunderClan warriors, mouth open for 


scents, Talltail pushed on. The clouds began to clear, 
driven toward the horizon by the brisk wind. Before 
long, the sun was shining weakly through the branches. 
As it slid behind them, Talltail detected more familiar 
scents. Above the tang of ThunderClan and the stink 
of ShadowClan, he could smell the sweet scent of 
heather. Even in leaf-bare it seemed to drench the arr. 
And the earthy musk of peat and rabbit rolled toward 
him. Without thinking, Talltail quickened his pace. 
Suddenly the Thunderpath veered away, leaving the 
cats trekking through thick forest. The ground 
steepened beneath Talltail’s paws and he was soon out 
of breath, climbing blindly through bracken until light 
showed between the trees at the top of the slope. 

He wrinkled his nose as he picked up ThunderClan’s 
border scent. “We’re nearly there.” At last they broke 
from the trees. A deep hollow yawned ahead of them 
and Talltail stared at the four tall oaks growing at the 
center. 

“Fourtrees!” His heart soared. “Come on!” Talltail 
streaked down the slope. “This territory belongs to all 
the Clans!” He suddenly felt more at ease than he had 
for moons, the ground familiar beneath his paws as he 


raced into the clearing between the oaks. He circled it, 
staring in delight at the towering trees. The claws in his 
belly seemed to uncurl and release him. His paws felt 
light. 

“Those trees are gigantic!” Jake stood in the center 
of the hollow, starmg wide-eyed into the branches. 
Then he looked around. “Which way is WindClan’s 
territory?” Talltail nodded at the far slope. Jake 
bounded toward it. “Come on.” 

Talltail raced after him, leaping up past shriveled 
clumps of fern. 

Jake stopped at the top and gazed across the moor. 
“Why did you ever want to leave?” he whispered. The 
heather rocked in the blustery wind, the wide swathes 
of grass streaming around it. 

Talltail couldn’t reply. The border was only tail- 
lengths away. The scent of it seemed to reach deep 
into his chest. J left because I dont belong here. But 
the words rang hollow in his ears. As the scents of 
wind and heather filled his nose, he felt a sense of 
belonging stronger than he’d ever felt. Cloudrunner 
had passed this way recently. And Dawnstripe. He 
could smell their trail. Larksplash, too. Talltail’s heart 


began to race. “I can’t go home!” He stared in panic 
at Jake. “They won’t want me! I broke the warrior 
code when I left my Clan. They'll drive me away 
again!” 

“Are you sure?” Jake padded around him, pelt 
ruffled by the wind. “You won’t know unless you go 
back.” 

Talltail closed his eyes. Was the wind tugging him 
onto the moor, or was it the pull of home? His heart 
ached to see the camp again. And Palebird. Had the 
kits grown? They must have. They’d be eating fresh- 
kill by now. Perhaps he wouldn’t be too late to give 
them their first taste of lapwing. 

“This is your home, Talltail.” Jake’s breath touched 
his ear fur. His green eyes glistened. “This is where 
you belong. Listen to your heart.” 

WindClan. Longing seared through his chest. “T 
know,” Talltail whispered. 

Jake touched Talltail’s cheek with his muzzle. “PI 
miss you.” 

Talltail gasped. “Don’t go! Come with me! Come 
and meet my Clan!” 

Jake stepped back. “This is where you belong, not 


me.” His mew was hardly more than a whisper. “My 
home is with my housefolk. He’ll be wondering where 
Iam.” 

Talltail’s throat tightened. “Will I ever see you 
again?” 

Jake glanced over his shoulder toward the far 
horizon. “Who knows? Maybe.” 

Hope flared in Talltail’s chest. “Become a warrior!” 
he blurted. “You'd be great! You learned how to hunt 
so quickly. And you can fight foxes!” 

Jake dropped his gaze. “No, Talltail. I wouldn’t be 
happy.” 

“You wouldn’t be happy with me?” Pain stabbed 
Talltail’s heart. 

Jake lifted his eyes. “I can’t live as a warrior.” He 
looked away, his mew cracking. “But I'll always 
remember you. You’ve shown me a life that I’ve 
always dreamed about. But now I know where I truly 
belong.” 

“Then I'll come with you and live in Twolegplace!” 
Talltail wanted to do anything to stop the pain in his 
heart. 

‘Don’t be rabbit-brained!” Jake’s eyes flashed. 


“You hate it there! You’d be so unhappy.” He paused, 
his tone softening. “I’d hate for you to be unhappy.” 

“Then why are you leaving?” Talltail pleaded. 
“You're the best friend I ever had.” 

“TIl always be your friend, Talltail,’ Jake meowed. 
“But I’m a kittypet, and you’re a warrior.” He stepped 
forward and rested his muzzle on Talltail’s head. 
“You'll always be a warrior.” 





You'll always be a warrior. Jake’s words echoed in 
Talltail’s mind as he headed up the hill toward the 
WindClan camp. The kittypet had assured him he’d be 
okay going back through the woods. 

“T'I follow our trail through the brambles,” Jake had 


promised. ‘TIl be fine.” 

Talltail trusted him. Jake wasn’t a rabbit-brain. He’d 
learned enough to travel silently and keep his ears and 
nose open for signs of warrior patrols. Will I be fine, 
too? The idea of walking into his old home suddenly 
seemed far scarier than retracing his steps through 
enemy territory. Will they take me back? 

Talltail forced his fur to smooth along his spine. He 
could smell his Clanmates all around him. Every tuft of 
heather carried familiar scents. Redclaw, Aspenfall, 
Mistmouse, and Appledawn had passed along this 
grassy track not long ago. Talltail imagined their paw 
prints still warm on the grass. He gazed across the 
swathe of dusky heather. Darker clumps of gorse 
grew up ahead, marking one end of the WindClan 
camp. 

His heart pounded like rabbit paws on hollow 
ground. He pricked his ears. The wind blustered over 
the moor-top; far away a buzzard’s wings beat the air, 
and closer, the tiny, excited squeal of a kit shrilled 
through the air. Wrenkit! 

Happiness flashed through Talltail’s paws. The 
brown she-kit had been less than a moon when he’d 


left. She must be over two moons old by now. He 
could hear her calling to her littermate. 

“Flykit! Come and look!” 

“I’m coming!” 

Talltail paused. It sounded like the kits were out of 
camp, their mews as clear as birdcalls beyond the 
heather. He slid between the branches and crept 
forward, peering through the stems. 

Wrenkit was sniffing at the entrance to a rabbit 
burrow. “Should we go in?” 

Flykit blinked, huge-eyed. “It’s very dark down 
there.” 

“We can use our noses and whiskers to find our 
way.” 

“What if we meet a rabbit?” Talltail could see 
Flykit’s pelt spiking. He was no bigger than a half- 
grown rabbit himself. But it wasn’t rabbits he should 
be afraid of. Talltail’s fur rippled along his spine. They 
knew nothing about tunneling. They might get lost. And 
the tunnels had been neglected for moons. No one had 
checked their roofs or walls, or shored up the stretches 
weakened by rain or frost. Talltail began to nose his 
way out of the heather. He had to stop the kits before 


they disappeared inside. 

A shadow flitted across the grass. Wings beat the 
air overhead. Talltail looked up. A hawk circled low 
just above him. He could see by the tilt of its head that 
it was watching the kits. They’d make a tasty treat for 
a bird of prey and its young. As Talltail opened his 
mouth to warn them, the hawk folded its wings and 
plummeted straight down. 

“Wrenkit!” Talltail lunged forward. “Watch out!” 

Wrenkit jerked up her head, eyes wide in shock. 
Flykit jumped back, hissing. The air whistled above as 
the hawk dived. 

Talltail thrust out his forepaws, landing squarely 
across the two frozen kits. Pulling them to him, he 
bundled them down the rabbit hole before leaping high 
into the air. He unsheathed his claws and swiped at the 
hawk as it flapped at his head. Its broad, brown wings 
stuttered and stalled, sending feathers spiraling down. 

Talltail hooked the bird from the sky and pinned it to 
the ground. Faster than a snake, he bit down on its 
thick neck, crunching through muscle and bone. The 
hawk fell still beneath him. 

Wrenkit’s tiny face stared out of the hole. “You 


caught it!” she squeaked. 

Flykit crept from the shadows, pelt thick with soil. 
“Talltail?” He blinked, confusion clouding his gaze. 
“What are you doing here?” 

“He’s come home!” Wrenkit’s eyes lit up. “I knew 
he would!” She bounced toward Talltail, clambering 
onto his shoulders as he crouched over the body of the 
hawk. “And he saved us!” 

“No one’s ever caught a hawk before!” Flykit 
stared at the golden feathers of the dead bird. 

“Whiteberry might disagree with you,’ Talltail 
purred. It felt good to feel kit paws on his shoulders 
again. He glanced at Flykit. “Do you want a badger 
ride home?” 

Flykit looked crestfallen. “We were going to sneak 
back through the dirtplace tunnel,” he mewed. “We’re 
not supposed to be out of the camp.” 

“No! You’re not!” Larksplash’s stern mew sounded 
from upslope. She was marching toward them, tail 
flicking angrily. 

Talltail watched, his breath catching in his throat. 
The she-cat’s eyes were fixed on the kits. 

“Palebird was worried sick—’ Larksplash halted. 


“Talltail?” She blinked at him in disbelief. “You’re 
back?” Her gaze dropped to the hawk at his paws. 

“Yes, Pm back.” Talltail leaned down and nosed the 
hawk. “I’ve brought prey.” 

Wrenkit clung to his shoulders, her sharp claws 
digging in. “He saved us!” she squealed. “That hawk 
was diving at us and Talltail jumped up and plucked it 
out of the air like it was a swallow.” 

Larksplash stopped. Uncertainty showed in her 
eyes. 

“It’s okay,” Talltail told her. “You don’t have to 
welcome me. I chose to leave the Clan.” 

Wrenkit fidgeted on his shoulders. “You went on an 
adventure!” 

Flykit scrambled over the hawk’s carcass and tried 
to jump up beside his sister. Talltail crouched down to 
let him on. 

“You should speak with Heatherstar,’ Larksplash 
murmured. 

“I know.” Talltail padded forward, stepping carefully 
so the kits could keep their balance. He felt the 
warmth of their bellies as they pressed close against 
his back. They were heavier than the last time he’d 


given them a badger ride. 

“Do big paw steps!” Wrenkit begged. 

“We won't fall; we promise!” Flykit mewed. 

Talltail lifted his paws high, thumping them down to 
jolt the kits as they clung on, squealing with delight. 
When Talltail reached the clearing outside camp, a 
black-and-white pelt slid through the heather and 
halted on the grass. 

“There you are!” Palebird stared angrily over 
Talltail’s head. “Heatherstar was about to order a 
search party.” 

“Talltail’s home!” Wrenkit scrabbled from Talltail’s 
shoulders and hurried to meet her mother. 

“He saved us from a hawk!” Flykit jumped down 
after her and weaved through Palebird’s legs. 

“Talltail?” Palebird stared at her son. 

He stared back. Had she forgotten him already? 

Palebird snatched her gaze away. “You know they 
weren’t supposed to be out of camp.” She gave 
Wrenkit’s head a brisk lick. “Why in the name of 
StarClan were you playing with them, Talltail?” she 
snapped. “You should have brought them straight 
home.” 


Talltail blinked at her. Palebird was acting like he’d 
never left. But I did leave. He lifted his chin. “I was 
bringing them home,” he meowed. “You shouldn’t have 
let them out of the camp. They were nearly taken by a 
hawk.” 

Larksplash_ stopped beside him. “He’s right, 
Palebird,” she meowed. “If Talltail hadn’t come back 
when he did, you’d have lost them.” 

Wrenkit gazed up at her mother with round eyes. 
“He put us down a rabbit hole and caught the hawk.” 

“You caught it?” Palebird mewed in surprise. 

Talltail glanced over his shoulder. “You might want 
to send some warriors to fetch it. It’ll provide food for 
the Clan.” He padded past his mother, dipping his 
head. “It’s good to see you again, Palebird,” he 
muttered. Ducking through the heather, he headed into 
camp. 

“Talitail?” Barkface was carrying a bundle of 
dripping moss to the elders’ den. He dropped it and 
bounded over the tussocks. “You came back!” A loud 
purr rumbled in his throat. 

Talltail nosed his old friend’s cheek. “Yes.” His gaze 
flicked around the camp. 


In the cold leaf-bare light, the heather looked dull. 
The grass had wilted in the frost. The bracken patch 
where the tunnelers made their nests was bent and 
shriveled. Only Tallrock seemed the same, looming 
above the Meeting Hollow. 

The bracken stirred as Hickorynose got to his paws. 
“Plumclaw, come see who’s here.” He nudged his 
denmate, keeping his eyes fixed on Talltail. 

Whiteberry peered out of the elders’ den. “Where’s 
that moss, Bark . . .” His mew trailed away as he 
spotted Talltail. 

Lilywhisker pushed past him. “I smell Talltail’s 
scent!” Her eyes lit up. “You’re back!” 

“Who s back?” Shrewclaw padded sleepily from the 
long grass. 

Ryestalk followed him out. “Is that Talltail?” 

“Talltail?” Stagleap scrambled out of the Meeting 
Hollow and raced past Aspenfall and Cloudrunner as 
they emerged from the shadows at the edge of the 
clearing. 

“Did you find him?” Barkface’s urgent whisper 
sounded in Talltail’s ear. “Did you kill Sparrow?” His 
eyes were dark with concern. 


“T found him,” Talltail told him. “But I let him live.” 

Barkface closed his eyes. “Thank StarClan.” 

“Sandgorse died saving him when the tunnel 
collapsed,” Talltail went on. “How could I kill him, 
knowing that?” 

“Talltail!” Stagleap nudged Barkface aside. “You 
look well!” 

Shrewclaw caught up to him. “The wormcat’s 
back?” He looked Talltail up and down. “I thought 
you'd left for good.” There was a taunt in his mew. 

“No, Pve come back.” Talltail glanced around the 
camp. “If Heatherstar will let me.” Where was she? 
He strained to see into the gloom of her den beyond 
Tallrock. 

“She’s leading a hunting patrol,” Stagleap meowed. 

Ryestalk stopped beside Shrewclaw. “It’s good to 
see you, Talltail.” 

“And you, Ryestalk.” Talltail tipped his head. 
Ryestalk’s pelt was touching Shrewclaw’s. Their 
whiskers brushed casually. Were they mates now? It 
was strange to think that life had carried on in the Clan 
while he’d been away. 

“Talltail!” Dawnstripe leaped from the Meeting 


Hollow. “You came back!” Delight lit up her eyes. 

Talltail stood still as she raced to meet him. “T 
couldn’t stay away.” 

She stopped in front of him and gazed warmly into 
his eyes. “Then my training wasn’t wasted.” 

“It was never wasted,” he meowed softly. “Not 
once.” 

Behind him, Palebird was shoomg Wrenkit and Flykit 
crossly through the heather. “I can’t take my eyes off 
you for a moment!” 

Bristlekit and Rabbitkit came haring from the 
nursery. “Where did you go?” Rabbitkit demanded, 
glaring at Wrenkit. “Why didn’t you let us come?” 

Bristlekit nudged his brother, his gaze fixed on 
Talltail. “Who cares? He’s back!” 

Larksplash padded into camp. “You would have lost 
Wrenkit and Flykit if he weren’t.” She flashed another 
stern look at Palebird. 

Ryestalk pricked her ears. “What happened?” 

“Talltail saved them from a hawk,” Larksplash 
explained. 

“Impressive!” Stagleap nudged Talltail with his 
shoulder. 


Larksplash nodded toward the entrance. “Why don’t 
you and Cloudrunner go get it? There’ll be fresh-kill 
for everyone tonight.” 

‘Don’t bother.” Heatherstar’s mew took Talltail by 
surprise. He spun around as the WindClan leader 
padded through the entrance with Reedfeather at her 
heels. “Redclaw and Hareflight are carrying it back.” 
She narrowed her eyes. “I thought I smelled your 
scent on it, Talltail. It seems you’ve learned new skills 
while you’ve been away.” 

Reedfeather stopped beside his leader. “Let’s hope 
he’s learned more than skills,” he muttered. 

Talltail kept his gaze on Heatherstar, his heart 
quickening. Would she let him rejoin the Clan? 

Shrewclaw stepped closer. “What are you doing 
here, Talltail? Was the land beyond the Clans too scary 
for you?” But there was curiosity and affection in his 
mew, underneath the teasing. 

“My heart wanted to be home.” Talltail dipped his 
head. “And my paws carried me back.” 

Heatherstar blinked slowly. Branches rustled behind 
her. Grunting with effort, Hareflight emerged, dragging 
the hawk carcass through. Redclaw followed, a 


taloned foot in his teeth as he helped Hareflight heave 
the bird into camp. 

Whiteberry padded around the body as they laid it 
on a tussock. “You caught this by yourself?” 

“I surprised it,’ Talltail confessed. “The hawk 
thought it was the hunter, not the hunted. It was easy 
to knock it out of the sky.” 

Whiteberry sniffed its bloody neck. “You must have 
been quick to kill it before it escaped. These wings 
could crack a warrior’s spine.” 

Talltail hadn’t thought about the danger, only saving 
the kits. He swallowed, relieved that StarClan had 
been kind to him. Was it a sign that he was welcome 
home? He glanced at Heatherstar. 

She flicked her tail toward the entrance. “Walk with 
me, Talltail.” She turned, pausing beside Reedfeather. 
“Organize the dusk patrol while we’re gone, please.” 

Heatherstar didn’t speak as she led the way 
upslope. She weaved through the bushes, following an 
old rabbit trail. Talltail trotted after her, relishing the 
feel of familiar stems brushing his pelt, his tongue 
steeped in scents he’d known since he was a kit. As 
he emerged onto the moor-top, the wind buffeted his 


face. It promised rain. He opened his mouth and tasted 
the distant tang of Highstones. Gray clouds dragged 
along their peaks, hiding the mountains beyond. 
Heatherstar kept moving, head high, pelt smooth. She s 
heading for Outlook Rock. 

The familiar crop of stones jutted from the moor, 
pale gray against the dark gray sky. Talltail padded 
onto the ledge and felt the smooth stone underneath his 
paws. He’d spent so many moments here, dreaming of 
traveling farther than he could see. Now he’d been 
beyond the horizon that had once made him feel 
trapped and suffocated. And still he’d come back. 

Heatherstar sat at the edge of the rock and stared 
across the valley. “Are you glad to be home?” 

Talltail stopped a muzzle-length behind her. He 
opened his mouth and let the wind wash his tongue. 
He’d traveled far, far away, where every paw step 
was strange and new. Now he was walking on 
WindClan land once more. His kin had walked this 
moor since the dawn of the Clans. Sandgorse and 
countless others had tunneled beneath it. This was 
home. He belonged here. His Clan needed him. Even 
if they didn’t know it, he knew it, as surely as he knew 


that daylight would bathe the Highstones every sunrise. 

“Yes, I’m glad to be back,” he murmured. 

“Good.” She kept her eyes on the distant peaks. 
“You always loved it here.” 

“I did.” Talltail had never felt more free than when 
he was sitting on the rock, the sky high above, the land 
far below. 

“Did you find what you were looking for?” 
Heatherstar’s question sounded casual, but Talltail 
guessed from the stiffness in her shoulders that she 
knew exactly what she was asking. 

“No.” 

“So Sparrow is alive.” 

Talltail swallowed. “Yes.” 

“Couldn’t you find him?” Heatherstar’s mew was 
soft. 

“I found him,” Talltail replied. “But he told me that 
Sandgorse had given his life to save him in the tunnels. 
I couldn’t kill him then. Sandgorse would have died for 
nothing.” 

“So you didn’t need to leave the Clan after all?” 
Heatherstar probed. 

“That’s not true,” Talltail growled. “I didn’t leave 


just for revenge. I didn’t feel like I belonged here.” 

“Sometimes we have to leave to find out where our 
heart truly lies,” Heatherstar whispered. 

Talltail’s pelt pricked. Heatherstar had said the same 
thing when he’d left. Does she know something shes 
not telling me? Right now, he didn’t care. She 
understood that he had needed to leave, and that was 
what mattered. Relief swamped him. “T learned a lot,” 
he told her. “Friendship and kinship matter more than 
adventure. Boundaries only exist in our minds. A heart 
can travel to the horizon without moving a paw step. 
And I made the best friend any cat ever had.” 

Heatherstar glanced over her shoulder. “But your 
loyalty is with the Clan now, right?” 

Talltail’s pelt pricked with irritation. “I came back, 
didn’t I?” 

“For good?” 

Talltail winced. She was right to question his loyalty. 
“Yes,” he meowed. 

Heatherstar turned her muzzle toward the horizon 
once more. “I always knew you would leave.” 

Talltail stiffened. “What do you mean?” He padded 
forward and stopped at her side. 


“When I received my nine lives, Mothflight warned 
me a warrior would leave my Clan.” A purr edged 
Heatherstar’s mew. “I was headstrong then. I told 
Mothflight that no warrior of mine would dare abandon 
his Clan.” She dipped her head. “But Mothflight was 
right. Sometimes a cat needs to go a long way to find 
that his true home is right where he started.” 

Talltail’s ear twitched. “How did you know that cat 
was me?” 

“You were restless even as a kit. You were a 
tunneler’s kit who hated tunnels, and a moor runner 
who couldn’t grasp the importance of boundaries. I let 
you go, as Mothflight had told me I should, so that 
you’d come to understand that it’s not boundaries that 
tie us down. We are held by much deeper bonds.” 

Grief stabbed Talltail’s chest. Jake. That was the 
deepest bond he’d ever known, and yet Talltail had left 
him to return to his Clan. He shifted his paws. “This 
friend that I made, he’s the one who told me to come 
back.” 

Heatherstar nodded. “He sounds like a wise cat,” 
she murmured. “He knows you better than you know 
yourself.” 


Talltail turned away, his heart aching. 

Heatherstar called to him as he padded from the 
rock. “You'll still have to earn the trust of your 
Clanmates.” 

Talltail hesitated. “I know.” 

“You must prove that you’re willing to lay down 
your life for any of them,’ Heatherstar meowed. 
“Even Shrewclaw.” There was a hint of amusement in 
her voice. 

“PI try,” Talltail promised. As he headed onto the 
grass, relishing its softness beneath his pads, 
Heatherstar called after him. 

“T’m glad you came back.” 

The claws that had been sunk for so long into 
Talltail’s belly seemed to give one final squeeze before 
letting go. “So am I,” he answered. 





Steadily falling water turned the hills gray. It had 
rained every day since Talltail had returned, and the 
familiar trails ran like streams through the heather. Out 
in the open, sand washed around Talltail’s paws as he 
trekked toward the gorge. 


Reedfeather trudged beside him. “A hard frost now 
would burn away the youngest heather,’ he 
commented as they skirted a swathe of dripping 
bushes, their roots exposed where rain had washed 
away the soil. 

Talltail glanced at the heavy sky. “There won’t be 
frost for a while.” 

Reedfeather shook out his pelt. “I prefer snow,” he 
grumbled. “It stays out of my fur.” The WindClan 
deputy was limping. A sprain in his shoulder that he’d 
suffered half a moon earlier was refusing to heal. 

Talltail noticed him wince with every step. “Do you 
want to find shelter and rest?” he offered. “I can hunt 
alone.” 

“T can still hunt for my Clan.” Reedfeather shot him 
a look. “Even on three legs.” 

“You’re not on three legs yet.” Talltail eyed the 
stretch of grass ahead. A thrush, impervious to the 
rain, was pecking for worms. “See that?” He nodded 
toward the bird. 

Reedfeather paused. “Your eyesight’s as good as 
ever.” 

“Go around and come up behind itt,” Talltail 


whispered. “Send it toward me. P1 do the rest.” 

Reedfeather hesitated. 

“Hurry,” Talltail urged. “I can’t catch it alone.” 

Reedfeather headed away, keeping low, rain 
dripping from his whiskers as he veered wide around 
the thrush. Talltail waited. The bird had gripped a 
worm in its beak and was tugging it determinedly from 
the ground. As Reedfeather closed in, Talltail stalked 
forward. He kept one eye on the deputy. The old 
warrior would know when to make his move. 

Talltail’s paw steps were hidden by the thrumming 
rain. The thrush only realized what was happening 
when Reedfeather darted at it. With a shriek, it 
fluttered away from the WindClan deputy. Talltail 
sprang as it flew toward him. Stretching up his 
forepaws, he knocked the bird from the sky. It dropped 
to the ground, dazed, and he nipped its spine. 

Reedfeather hobbled to meet him. “That’s a useful 
technique,” he grunted. “Even an elder could make a 
catch like that.” 

“Or a kittypet.” Talltail fought to keep the 
wistfulness from his mew as he remembered Jake’s 
startled face when he caught his first mouse. 


The rain was easing by the time they reached camp. 
Reedfeather led the way through the heather, nodding 
to Talltail before he carried their catch to the prey 
heap. Talltail scanned the camp. Water dripped into a 
puddle in the apprentices’ den. With no apprentices, the 
gorse had not been patched and the nests were wilting 
and soggy. Meadowslip was resting outside the 
nursery, Palebird sitting beside her. Lilywhisker was 
dragging old bedding from the elders’ den. Heatherstar 
sheltered below Tallrock with Aspenfall and 
Doespring. On the Hunting Stones, Wrenkit, Flykit, 
Bristlekit, and Rabbitkit were bickering about who got 
to sit on the highest rock. 

“It’s my turn!” Rabbitkit sounded indignant. 

“You sat there last time,” Wrenkit argued. 

“I never get to sit on the highest one,” Bristlekit 
complained. 

Talltail headed away before they spotted him and 
begged him to decide. As he padded toward the long 
grass, hoping to find enough shelter to wash some of 
the rain from his fur, Hopkit scrambled out of the 
nursery. One moon from becoming an apprentice, he 
looked too big for the old gorse den. Perhaps it was 


time to start clearing the old nests from the apprentice 
den and repairing the roof. 

“Talltail!” Hopkit raced around the edge of the 
Meeting Hollow. He ran nimbly, compensating so well 
with his three strong legs that sometimes Talltail forgot 
about his useless, twisted forepaw. “Will you help me 
practice my attack crouch like you promised?” 
Worried that he wouldn’t be given a mentor because 
his paw made the moves more difficult, Hopkit wanted 
to learn everything before he left the nursery. 

Talltail glanced at the sky. The clouds were 
beginning to tear apart, showing patches of blue. It 
was the first sign of good weather in days. “Okay.” 

The black kit flicked his tail excitedly. 

“Let’s use the Meeting Hollow.” Talltail jumped into 
the dip, feeling the wet earth slide beneath his paws. 
Days of rain had washed the hollow clean, and stones 
hidden for moons beneath the soil flashed and sparkled 
on the surface as the sun peeked through a gap in the 
clouds. 

Hopkit scrambled down and crouched into an attack 
stance, his flanks quivering as he tried to balance. 

“Spread your hind legs farther apart,’ Talltail 


advised him. “Tt’ll give more power to your leap.” He 
pressed Hopkit’s shoulders lower with his muzzle. 
“Keep your chin close to the ground. That way you’ll 
be ready to duck under your enemy if he leaps first. 
And remember to use your hind legs to push you 
forward.” He padded around the young tom, stooping 
to inspect his twisted paw. “Your forepaws are for 
balance, remember?” 

Hopkit was leaning to one side where his twisted 
paw couldn’t quite hold his weight steadily. The young 
tom snorted and sat up. “I knew it.” He stared angrily 
at his odd paw. 

“Don’t worry,” Talltail soothed. “Your forepaws 
need to match each other. You’ ll only fall off balance if 
one is stronger than the other.” 

Hopkit frowned. “But one is stronger than the 
other.” 

Talltail shrugged. “Then use the stronger one more 
lightly.” 

Hopkit brightened. “Okay.” He crouched again, 
adjusting his paws one at a time until he was steady as 
a rock. 

“Perfect.” Talltail was impressed. It was impossible 


to see the weakness in Hopkit’s twisted paw. “Now try 
leaping. Don’t forget: Keep your ears flat. And your 
eyes must be narrowed. In battle there’ll be claws 
flying at you from all directions.” 

Hopkit screwed his eyes to slits and drew his ears 
close to his head. His haunches quivered for a 
moment; then he sprang forward. He darted neatly 
through the air, perfectly balanced. 

“Very good!” Talltail praised him as he landed. 

“Ow!” Hopkit stumbled, then drew himself up 
sharply, holding his forepaw high. 

“What’s happened?” Talltail rushed to his side. “Did 
you land badly?” Talltail saw beads of scarlet liquid 
dripping onto the earth. The strong tang of blood 
bathed his tongue. 

“I landed on a s-stone,” Hopkit whimpered. 

Talltail saw a sharp edge of flint sticking up from the 
ground where the rain had washed away the soil. 
“Quick, let’s get you to the medicine den.” 

Blood was welling fast on Hopkit’s pad, soaking the 
fur around his claws. Talltail didn’t dare look to see 
how deeply the flint had torn the young tom’s flesh. He 
grabbed Hopkit’s scruff between his teeth and hauled 


him up out of the hollow, ignoring his yowls of protest 
as he hurried to the medicine den. “Stop struggling, for 
StarClan’s sake,” he growled through his teeth. He let 
go at the entrance and nosed Hopkit into the gorse 
cave. 

Barkface looked up from a pile of herbs. “I smell 
blood.” He trotted over and sniffed Hopkit’s paw. 

“Ts it bad?” Talltail asked. 

“It’s deep.” Barkface darted back across the den 
and reached through a gap in the branches, hauling out 
a wad of cobweb and a pawful of leaves. “But PI 
soon get him fixed up.” 

“Good.” Hopkit held out his paw. “I want to get 
back to my training. I’d just worked out a really good 
attack crouch.” 

“No more training for you until this has healed.” 
Barkface began to fill the wound with herbs. “How did 
it happen?” 

“There are sharp stones in the Meeting Hollow.” 
Talltail glanced through the den entrance and caught 
sight of Shrewclaw. He ducked outside. “Shrewclaw!” 

The warrior was padding toward the long grass with 
Ryestalk at his side. He stopped when Talltail called 


out. “What?” 

“There are stones sticking up all across the Meeting 
Hollow.” Talltail nodded toward the dip. 

Shrewclaw followed his gaze. “How did they get 
there?” 

“The rain’s washed the soil away,’ Talltail 
explained. “Hopkit just cut himself on one.” 

Ryestalk frowned. “That’s dangerous.” 

Talltail nodded to Shrewclaw. “Can you organize a 
patrol to dig them out?” 

Shrewclaw narrowed his eyes. “Why don’t you do 
it?” 

“I want to keep an eye on Hopkit.” 

Ryestalk nudged Shrewclaw. “Come on. Talltail’s 
right. We need to clear the hollow before another cat 
gets hurt.” She hurried across the tussocks to where 
Stagleap and Appledawn were sharing prey in the 
shelter of the heather wall. 

Shrewclaw padded after her. “We should ask 
Hickorynose and Mistmouse to help,” he muttered. 
“They’re used to digging.” 

As Talltail turned back to the medicine den, the 
ground trembled. Paws were thrumming beyond the 


camp wall. The heather shivered as Plumclaw burst 
into the camp. Woollytail, Larksplash, and Cloudrunner 
thundered after her, skidding to a halt on the wet grass. 

“ShadowClan!” Plumclaw gasped. Her flanks were 
heaving. 

Heatherstar raced around the rim of the Hollow and 
stopped beside Talltail. “What’s happened?” 

Reedfeather limped from the long grass, pelt 
bristling. “Have they crossed the border?” 

“As good as,” Cloudrunner growled. “They’ve left 
scent marks on the brambles at Fourtrees.” 

Heatherstar’s gaze sharpened. “What’s wrong with 
that?” 

Woollytail lifted his chin. “They’ve drenched it in 
scent markers, right on the boundary.” 

“Tt’s deliberate provocation,” Larksplash added. 

Heatherstar narrowed her eyes. “But they haven’t 
crossed the border.” 

“They didn’t need to,” Plumclaw snarled. “Their 
scents done it for them. Our land smells like 
ShadowClan territory.” 

Shrewclaw’s pelt spiked. “We should send a patrol 
to scent their borders!” 


Ryestalk twitched her tail. ‘TI go!” 

“No.” Heatherstar stared at her warriors. “No one 
will cross the border,” she ordered. “They’re just trying 
to provoke us. We won’t fall for their tricks.” 

“It’s no trick.” Cloudrunner lashed his tail. “It’s a 
warning. We need to show them we’re not afraid.” 

“We can do that by carrying on as normal,” 
Heatherstar told him. “Same patrols, same scent 
markers. Let them waste their scent stinking up the 
border. So long as they don’t cross it, we won’t react.” 

Talltail glanced at her uneasily. ShadowClan 
warriors didn’t make empty threats. His paws pricked 
with worry. They’d crossed the border before. Last 
time, they’d attacked the camp. What would stop them 
this time? But Talltail hadn’t been back long enough to 
question his leader’s wisdom. Besides, she might be 
right. Why rush into a battle that didn’t need to 
happen? 

He turned and headed for the medicine den. 
“Hopkit?” He peered in. 

Hopkit blinked from the shadows. “What’s 
happening?” His tail flicked restlessly as Barkface 
wound cobweb around his paw. 


“Sit stil,’ Barkface ordered. 

Hopkit growled. “But I heard Plumclaw say 
ShadowClan had crossed the border!” 

“They’ve left scents on the brambles by Fourtrees,” 
Talltail told him. 

“Is Heatherstar organizing a battle patrol?” Hopkit 
shuffled his hind paws beneath him. 

“T said keep still!” Barkface grunted, frowning as he 
wound the web tighter. 

Talltail nosed his way in. “No patrol. Not yet.” 

Hopkit’s shoulders slumped. “I wish I were an 
apprentice,” he grumbled. “I’d teach ShadowClan to 
keep away from our borders!” 

Barkface looked up at him, his eyes gleaming with 
amusement. “You won’t have four paws to attack 
them with if you don’t let me finish this dressing,” he 
warned. 

Talltail nodded. “He’s right, Hopkit. Hold still. Your 
Clanmates need you fit and ready to fight.” He caught 
Barkface’s eye and held back a purr. 

Hopkit sat up straight, quivering with effort. “Still as 
a stone, right you are!” he mewed. “Barkface, carry 
on!” 


Talltail stretched across the width of his nest, then 
hopped out. He padded over the frosty grass, screwing 
up his eyes against the early beams of sunlight that 
flashed over the camp wall. Pigeonkit and Sorrelkit 
were already awake and chasing Palebird’s kits around 
Hunting Stones. 

“Help!” Wrenkit squealed happily as Pigeonkit 
lunged for her. She scrambled through the crack 
between the rocks and escaped to the far side. 

Palebird was curled beside a tussock, watching 
fondly, her pelt glowing in the early sunshine. 

Wheres Hopkit? Talltail looked for the black pelt of 
the young tom, relieved to see he wasn’t playing with 
his denmates. He must be resting at last. Hopkit had 
insisted on practicing his battle moves every day since 
his injury, despite Barkface’s warnings. Only when 
Hawkheart had ordered him sternly to his nest on the 
threat of not being made an apprentice, ever, had the 
kit given up. 

Doespring was standing at the entrance beside 
Hareflight. “Are you coming, Talltail?” 

“Yes.” He began to cross the clearing. 


In the sunrises since ShadowClan had drenched the 
bramble in their scent, Heatherstar had ordered extra 
border patrols. Reedfeather had already led 
Mistmouse, Appledawn, and Stagleap out before 
sunrise. Now Shrewclaw, Ryestalk, and Doespring 
were preparing to leave. 

“Hopkit!” 

Talltail halted as Meadowslip’s anxious mew drifted 
from the nursery. 

“Hopkit! Can you hear me?” Heather crunched 
inside the gorse den. “You’re too hot. Can you make it 
outside? You need to cool down.” 

There was no answer. 

Talltail stiffened. “Go without me!” he called to 
Doespring. “T I jom the next patrol.” 

Doespring frowned. “Is something wrong?” 

“T want to check on Hopkit.” 

Shrewclaw scowled. “Reedfeather told us Talltail 
was joining this patrol.” 

Hareflight snorted. “Talltail makes his own rules.” 
There was bitterness in the warrior’s mew. 

“Yes, the warrior code doesn’t apply to Talltail.” 
Shrewclaw barged through the entrance. 


Talltail ignored him and headed for the nursery. 
“Meadowslip?” he called through the entrance. 

“Come in!” Meadowslip’s mew was taut with fear. 

Talltail pushed his way through the gorse. His nose 
wrinkled. The den stank of sickness. “Fetch 
Hawkheart,’ he ordered. Meadowslip hesitated. 
“Now.” 

She slid from the den. Talltail leaned into Hopkit’s 
nest. Heat pulsed from the young tom’s pelt. His eyes 
were half-open but glazed. “Hopkit?” Talltail thrust his 
muzzle closer, gagging as the putrid stink of pus bathed 
his tongue. He grabbed Hopkit’s scruff and hauled him 
from his nest. Hes burning up! He carried Hopkit out 
into the frosty air. 

Hawkheart was hurrying past the Meeting Hollow, 
Meadowslip at his tail. He stopped as he caught sight 
of Hopkit. “Bring him to the medicine den.” 

“He needs to cool down,” Talltail growled through 
clenched jaws. 

“ÉI can give him something for the fever.” 
Hawkheart led the way into his den, clearmg away 
drying herbs to let Talltail lay the kit down on the 
smooth, sandy floor. 


Meadowslip pushed in beside him. “What’s wrong?” 

“The infection’s spreading.” The medicine cat 
sniffed Hopkit’s paw. “I'll make a poultice.” Muttering 
under his breath, he turned away. 

“Where’s Barkface?” Talltail’s pelt twitched. He 
wanted the reassurance of his friend. Hopkit was 
going to be all right, wasn’t he? 

“He’s gathering herbs,’ Hawkheart meowed over 
his shoulder. 

“Should I go get him?” Talltail offered. 

“He’ll be back soon.” 

As Hawkheart spoke, the den entrance rustled. 
Barkface nosed his way in, eyes widening as he saw 
Talltail, Hopkit, and Meadowslip. He dropped the wad 
of herbs clamped between his jaws. “What’s wrong?” 

Hawkheart didn’t look up from the poultice he was 
mixing. “Did you get any marigold?” 

“There wasn’t any.” Barkface bent down and 
sniffed Hopkit’s paw. “The infection’s spreading, isn’t 
it?” 

“We need to treat it fast.” Hawkheart glanced at 
Meadowslip. “Talltail,’ he grunted, “take Meadowslip 
outside. It’s too crowded in here.” 


“But I want to be near my kit,’ Meadowslip 
protested. 

“Yow ll be more use to him if you stay out of the 
way,” Hawkheart meowed. 

Barkface padded around Hopkit and began chewing 
Hawkheart’s herbs into a pulp. Talltail tried to catch his 
eye, but the young medicine cat’s gaze was fixed on 
Hopkit. He turned and nudged Meadowslip toward the 
entrance. “It’s too hot in here with all of us,” he 
murmured, coaxing her into the sharp, fresh air. 

He paced the frosty grass outside while Meadowslip 
crouched beside the heather wall. The sun rose above 
the horizon, shimmering in the pale leaf-bare sky. /f 
only there were snow to pack around the burning 
kit, Talltail thought. Hawkheart knows what hes 
doing. His heart seemed to echo in his chest, hollowed 
by worry. Barkface is with him too. Hopkit will be 
okay. 

“Talltail?” Barkface slid from the medicine den. 

Meadowslip leaped to her paws. “How is he?” 

“You can go and see him now.” Barkface nodded 
her inside. His eyes darkened as he turned toward 
Talltail. He waited until the she-cat had disappeared 


into the gorse, then crossed the grass. “The infection’s 
in his blood,” he whispered to Talltail. 

“That’s bad, isn’t it?” 

Barkface looked grim. “He could die.” 

“Is there anything you can give him?” 

“We’ve given him everything we can.” Barkface’s 
eyes were round with worry. “But it’s leaf-bare. We’re 
working with wilted herbs, and dried ones. They don’t 
have the same power as newleaf herbs.” 

A groan sounded from the medicine den. 

“He’s in pain!” Talltail’s memory flashed back to the 
rainy night he’d writhed in agony as poison seared in 
his belly. “Can’t you stop it?” 

“Hawkheart’s giving him poppy seeds, but they can 
only ease it a little.” 

“T was really ill when I was in Twolegplace.” 

Barkface jerked up his head. “You were?” 

“I was saved by a Twoleg.” 

“A Twoleg?” Barkface moved closer. “How?” 

“I don’t know,” Talltail confessed. “I can hardly 
remember what happened. But Jake told me that there 
are medicine Twolegs who cure cats.” Hope flashed in 
his chest. “Perhaps we could take Hopkit to one.” 


Barkface backed away. “No!” 

“Why not?” Talltail swished his tail. “I could carry 
him to Twolegplace and leave him somewhere he’d be 
found. He’d be cured like I was.” 

Barkface stiffened. “You were very lucky,” he 
growled. “Who knows what would happen to Hopkit? 
How would he even survive the journey?” His pelt 
lifted along his spine. 

Talltail flinched. “T just want to help.” 

“I know.” Barkface’s gaze softened. “But that isn’t 
the way.” 

Talltail glanced balefully toward the medicine den, 
then turned away. Whiteberry and Lilywhisker were 
hauling dusty heather from their den. 

Whiteberry halted, sitting down to catch his breath. 
“T can’t wait until we have apprentices again.” 

Lilywhisker dragged a bundle of heather stalks 
across the grass and turned back for more. “We only 
have one more moon to wait,” she panted. 

Flailfoot pushed his way out of the den, struggling 
with a trailng piece of sheepswool. “I just hope 
Stagleap remembers to bring fresh wool back from 
patrol or we’ ll be sleeping on bare heather tonight.” 


“T can fetch some.” Talltail trotted toward them. He 
hooked the lump of wool from the Flailfoot’s paw and 
tossed it away. A flea leaped from it and bit his leg. 
Grunting, Talltail jerked his head down and cracked the 
flea between his teeth. 

Lilywhisker shook her head. “We try to keep the 
bedding clean.” She glanced at the older cats and 
lowered her voice. “Their eyesight isn’t what it used to 
be. They find fleas hard to spot.” 

Flamepelt padded from the den, his orange fur 
glowing in the sunshine. “I pulled a tick from your tail 
yesterday.” 

“But you missed the fleas.” Lilywhisker’s fur 
rippled. “They kept me awake all night biting.” 

Whiteberry scratched his ear. “Fleas are faster than 
ticks.” 

“Let me look.” Talltail began to snuffle through the 
fur on Lilywhisker’s flank. 

“What’s all the fuss in the medicine den?” Flailfoot 
asked, craning her neck to see across the clearing. 

Talltail burst a flea in his teeth and straightened up. 
“Hopkit’s very ill The infection in his paw has 
spread.” 


Lilywhisker flattened her ears. “Does he have a 
fever?” 

Talltail nodded. “Barkface doesn’t know if his herbs 
will help—” 

“Talltail!” 

Brown fur flashed on the edge of Talltail’s vision. 
Barkface was racing toward him. The young medicine 
cat skidded to a halt. “I have an idea!” 

Talltail pricked his ears. “What?” 

“I remember Brambleberry mentioned sedge at the 
Moonstone once.” He looked at Heatherstar. “It grows 
all through leaf-bare, doesn’t it?” 

“Yes, you can see it around the RiverClan camp 
from the gorge,” Heatherstar agreed. 

“Brambleberry said there was one type of sedge 
that cured infection.” Barkface’s eyes shone. “Sweet- 
sedge, I think she called it. She uses the roots. She 
might have some in her store.” 

“How can we get our paws on it?” Heatherstar’s 
pelt pricked. “We can’t send a patrol; RiverClan might 
take it as a sign of attack.” 

“Well, we’re not going to steal it.” Barkface paced 
around her. “If I went by myself and asked, RiverClan 


might listen. I’m a medicine cat, not a warrior, and it’s 
part of our code that we have to save the life of a kit, 
whatever Clan they are from.” 

Heatherstar stared. “You want to walk into 
RiverClan territory alone?” 

Talltail stepped forward. “PI go with him.” 

Heatherstar lifted her chin. “WindClan cats don’t 
cross borders and we don’t beg other Clans for help.” 

“But what about Hopkit?” Talltail pleaded. “He 
might die if we don’t do something.” 

“He has StarClan to protect him.” 

“Sometimes StarClan isn’t enough.” Talltail flexed 
his claws. “They didn’t save Sandgorse.” 

“Or Brackenwing,” Barkface put in. 

Heatherstar stared at the young medicine cat. “Are 
you doubting StarClan?” 

“I believe that they trust us to help ourselves,” 
Barkface mewed softly. “If there is some way of 
saving Hopkit, I’m going to find it.” 

Talltail’s heart quickened. “We can’t let boundaries 
get in our way!” Why were the Clans so obsessed 
with scent lnes? They were great for deciding who 
hunted where, but when a kit’s life was at stake how 


could anyone believe that invisible boundaries were 
more important? 

Heatherstar looked at the elders. They returned her 
gaze in silence. 

Then Flailfoot spoke. “Talltail is right.” 

Lilywhisker nodded. “There are no boundaries in 
StarClan.” 

“If Barkface and Talltail are willing to ask RiverClan 
for help on behalf of their Clanmate, we should honor 
them.” Whiteberry dipped his head. 

“Very well.” Heatherstar nodded briskly. “If it must 
be done, then do it now. There’s no time to lose.” She 
turned toward the medicine den and ordered over her 
shoulder, “Go!” 

Talltail turned and dashed toward the camp 
entrance. He felt Barkface’s breath on his tail as he 
raced through the tunnel. 

“Not so fast!” Barkface panted when Talltail hared 
down the slope. 

He glanced over his shoulder. Barkface was trailing 
behind as they streaked toward the border. Talltail 
slowed. “How are we going to cross the river?” he 
asked as Barkface caught up. 


Barkface frowned. “We might be able to signal a 
RiverClan patrol from this side.” 

“Good plan.” Talltail wasn’t looking forward to 
getting his fur wet. He wasn’t even sure he could 
swim. Please let a RiverClan patrol be passing. 

Talltail didn’t pause as they crossed the border 
markers, ignoring the RiverClan scent as it touched his 
tongue. They scrambled down the steep path at the 
end of the gorge, and met the river where it widened 
and slowed after tumbling between the cliffs. 
Downstream, thick sedge hid the far bank. 

“The RiverClan camp must be somewhere over 
there.” Barkface pomted with his tail toward the dark 
green rushes. 

Talltail tasted the air. Damp, lush scent rolled over 
his tongue. Then he scanned the flat meadowland 
beyond the river, hoping to catch sight of a pelt moving 
through the long grass. “No sign of a patrol. We’re 
going to have to swim across.” 

“Can you swim?” Barkface asked. 

“Lets find out.” Talltail padded over the pebbly 
shore and waded into the water. He was surprised by 
the weight of the current. It pushed against his legs 


and dragged at his belly fur, cold as ice. He shivered. 
“Do you want to wait here?” Was there any sense in 
risking both their lives? 

Barkface splashed into the water beside him. 
“They’re less likely to attack if I’m with you,” he 
meowed. He pushed determinedly into the river. 

Talltail watched the water swallow Barkface’s 
shoulders. “Are you swimming?” 

“My paws are still on the bottom.” 

Talltail’s heart pricked with hope. Perhaps it was so 
shallow they’d be able to wade across. 

“T’m swimming now!” Barkface’s call was cut short 
as he disappeared beneath the surface. He appeared a 
moment later, splashing and coughing. 

“Barkface!” Talltail dived after his friend. The icy 
water soaked through his fur, its chill piercing his bones 
in a heartbeat. As the bottom disappeared from 
beneath his paws, he fought panic. Flailing, he tried to 
haul himself forward, stretching his neck to keep his 
muzzle in the air. “Barkface!” 

‘Tm okay!” The medicine cat’s dark pelt moved 
ahead of him. Barkface wasn’t splashing now; instead 
he was moving steadily through the water. 


Talltail churned his paws, struggling to keep up. The 
river seemed to be trying to drag him downstream, 
pulling harder at his haunches than his shoulders so 
that Talltail felt himself spinning slowly around. He 
pushed harder with his forepaws, trying to keep 
straight, his gaze fixed on Barkface. Gulping air, he 
moved forward jerkily. Imagine that you’re running. 
Push against the water the same as you would 
against the earth. He forced his paws into a steady 
rhythm and braced himself against the current. 

He suddenly realized that the far bank was getting 
closer. A moment later, Barkface was wading out of 
the water, his pelt dripping, and Talltail felt pebbles roll 
beneath his pads. He scrabbled to find his paws, weak 
with relief to be walking on solid ground. He felt as 
light as air as he staggered from the river. 

“We made it!” Barkface stood on the bank and 
shook the water from his pelt. 

Talltail ducked away before the drops showered his 
face. He’d never felt so cold! A shiver ran through him 
and he sneezed. “Let’s find a patrol and get out of 
here,” he growled through chattering teeth. 

Barkface stared past him, eyes widening in fear. 


“Tall —” 
A menacing snarl cut him off. “If you’re looking for 
a patrol, trespassers, you just found one.” 


j 
a 





CHAPTER 42 
te 


ko 


Talltail stepped backward, shielding Barkface. “We 
need to speak with Brambleberry.” 

Three RiverClan cats glared at him. He recognized 
the sleek pelts of Ottersplash, Rippleclaw, and Owlfur 
from Gatherings. 


Rippleclaw, a black-and-silver tom, tilted his head. 
His eyes glittered threateningly. “Did Heatherstar send 
you?” 

“Yes.” Barkface ducked out from behind Talltail. 
‘I’m Barkface of WindClan. I must speak with your 
medicine cat.” 

“I know who you are.” Ottersplash curled her lip. 
“T’d get back in the river, if I were you.” 

“Unless you want to be shredded.” Owlfur stepped 
forward, his brown-and-white pelt twitching. 

“There’s no time for fighting,’ Barkface hissed. 
“One of our kits is dying. I need Brambleberry’s help.” 

“A kit?” Ottersplash glanced at Rippleclaw. 

Rippleclaw’s tail stilled. “Dying?” 

Owlfur showed his teeth. “Why'd you bring a 
warrior with you?” He padded forward and stopped a 
whisker from Talltail’s muzzle. Fishy breath clouded 
from his mouth. 

“T’m here to protect him.” Talltail dug his claws 
among the pebbles. “Would you let your Clanmate 
travel into enemy territory alone?” 

The brown-and-white tom’s eyes gleamed. “Then 
you admit you’re on enemy territory?” 


“Do you think we swam the river without noticing?” 
Talltail looked at the RiverClan warrior’s sleek pelt. 
“Not all warriors are half fish.” 

“Talltail!” Barkface’s sharp mew cut through the 
freezing air. “We need their help!” 

Talltail dipped his head, suddenly remembering 
Jake’s gentle respect toward Jay, the old she-cat in 
Twolegplace. His approach had gotten them the 
information they wanted. “I’m sorry.” He rounded his 
eyes. “Please let us see Brambleberry. Hopkit’s life 
may rest in her paws.” 

“Let them see her.” A gruff mew sounded from the 
reeds and Piketooth slid out. He caught Talltail’s eye, 
wary and tense. Talltail suddenly wondered if 
Piketooth’s Clanmates knew about his catch on 
WindClan territory. 

Barkface leaned forward. “If Brambleberry says no, 
we'll leave.” 

“It’s Hailstar who will decide.” Rippleclaw barged 
past and slid into the reeds. 

“This way.” Piketooth beckoned Talltail forward 
with a flick of his tail and followed Rippleclaw. 

Talltail padded after him. “Stay close to me,” he 


hissed to Barkface. The reeds were stiff as he pushed 
his way through. Piketooth’s tail disappeared a few 
paw steps ahead. Behind him, the stalks rattled as 
Barkface, Ottersplash, and Owlfur followed. After 
walking along the river for several long moments, 
during which Talltail felt as if he was being lashed on 
both flanks by the springy reeds, they emerged into a 
clearing. The river lapped at one side, seeping through 
a thick wall of reeds and silvering the marshy earth. 
Dens dotted the camp, woven from sticks. 

“They look like more like birds’ nests than dens,” 
Talltail whispered in Barkface’s ear. 

“They float if it floods,’ Barkface whispered. 

Talltail blinked, surprised at the ingenuity of the 
RiverClan cats. Were they as smart as WindClan? 

“Wait.” Rippleclaw nodded to Barkface, then 
ducked into one of the tangled dens. 

RiverClan cats blinked from the edges of the 
clearing, staring in surprise at their visitors. 

“Rainflower! Look!” a russet kit squeaked to a gray 
she-cat. 

“What is it, Oakkit?” 

“Intruders!” The kit fluffed out its fur, hissing. 


Ottersplash padded across the clearing. “They’ve 
come for our help.” 

Rainflower sniffed. “Why should we help WindClan 
cats?” 

“They say they have a sick kit.” Owlfur prowled 
beside the reed wall, hackles up. 

Rippleclaw reappeared, Hailstar following. The 
RiverClan leader was round-eyed, his gaze anxious. 
“You need medicine.” 

Barkface hurried forward. “It’s leaf-bare. Our herbs 
aren’t strong enough. We were hoping Brambleberry 
would share some sweet-sedge. It’s powerful even in 
the hardest season.” 

Brambleberry’s white face appeared from one of 
the stick dens. “What’s going on?” She slid out, the 
black spots on her fur like smudges in snow. 

“Brambleberry!” A weak cry sounded from inside 
the den. 

Barkface craned his head, trying to see in. “You 
sound like you have a sick kit of your own. 

“Stormkit.” Brambleberry’s eyes clouded. “He fell.” 

“Can I help?” Barkface offered. 

“There’s nothing more to be done.” Brambleberry 


glanced back into the shadows. “Time and care will 
see him through.” She turned back to Barkface. “Why 
have you come?” 

“Hopkit has an infected paw. The infection’s 
spreading fast.” 

Brambleberry cut him off. “You want sweet-sedge.” 

Barkface’s eyes lit. “Can you spare some?” 

Brambleberry glanced at her leader. Hailstar dipped 
his head. “I have some,” Brambleberry mewed, turning 
back to her den. “Come.” 

Talltail watched Barkface disappear into the 
shadows after the RiverClan medicine cat. He could 
feel the probing eyes of the RiverClan warriors, hot on 
his pelt. Shellheart, the dappled-gray deputy, sat on the 
arching root of a willow, watching through narrowed 
eyes. Nightsky appeared beside Piketooth. She 
whispered into her clanmate’s ear, then dipped her 
head to Talltail. He nodded back. He’d been right to let 
them cross the border to feed their Clan. Now 
RiverClan was returning the favor. StarClan willing. 

Hailstar lifted his chin. “WindClan has never asked 
for help before.” 

Talltail met his gaze. “WindClan has never needed 


help before.” 

Owlfur’s growl hardened. “But now you do. Has 
leaf-bare weakened you?” 

Talltail’s hackles lifted. Was the RiverClan warrior 
goading him? He dug his claws deep into the marshy 
ground. You’re outnumbered, Talltail. Jake’s voice 
echoed in his mind. Are you really going to start a 
fight? Warmth stirred in his chest and his fur 
smoothed. “WindClan is grateful for your kindness.” 
He bowed his head low to Hailstar. 

“No warrior would let a kit die, no matter the Clan.” 
As Hailstar spoke, Barkface padded from 
Brambleberry’s den with a thick, white root between 
his jaws. 

“He must swallow the sap!” Brambleberry called 
after him. 

Barkface flicked his tail, his mouth too full to 
answer. 

Hailstar stepped forward. “Ottersplash and 
Rippleclaw will help you cross the river.” 

“We managed to get here alone,” Talltail pointed 
out. 

“You were lucky,” Hailstar meowed grimly. “There 


are dangerous currents when rain has swollen the 
waters.” 

Talltail pushed back a growl. He hated being treated 
like a kit. And he suspected that the RiverClan leader 
was more interested in making sure they left his 
territory than in keeping them from drowning. But they 
had been given what they’d come for. That was 
enough. He paused as Rippleclaw pushed in front of 
him and led him along a winding trail through the reeds. 
Barkface trotted after him with Ottersplash at his 
heels. 

At the shore, Rippleclaw stayed close to Barkface 
as the medicine cat waded into the water. The 
RiverClan warrior guided Barkface across, boosting 
him forward with her shoulder. 

“I can swim by myself,” Talltail told Ottersplash. 

Ottersplash stared at him coldly. “Would you let me 
run through rabbit tunnels by myself?” 

Talltail stiffened. Did RiverClan know about the 
maze of tunnels beneath WindClan? Of course not. 
Shes just guessing that we chase rabbits into their 
burrows. 

“Come on, then!” Ottersplash was already padding 


into the water. 

Talltail braced himself as the freezing water lapped 
over his shoulders. He churned his paws clumsily while 
beside him, Ottersplash moved through the water like a 
snake. As he struggled to stay afloat, she glided at his 
side, hardly ruffling the surface. An eddy tugged him 
suddenly, spinning him off course. Water dragged at his 
paws down. The river was trying to swallow him! He 
thrashed in panic, jerking his head around. Where was 
Ottersplash? Had the river swallowed her too? 

Suddenly something hard pushed against his belly. 
Beneath the water, a strong back steadied him while 
he regained his balance, then disappeared. A moment 
later, Ottersplash broke the surface. She blew water 
from her nose. 

“Hailstar warned you about the currents,” she 
murmured, and swam close beside Talltail until they 
reached the shore where Barkface and Rippleclaw 
were shaking out their pelts. 

Talltail stretched his feet down to the pebbles, 
relieved as he felt them underpaw, and staggered out 
after Ottersplash. “Thanks,” he grunted. 

Ottersplash shrugged. “I’m impressed a WindClan 


cat can swim at all.” 

Rippleclaw nodded along the trail toward the gorge. 
“We’ll watch you go,” he meowed. “To make sure you 
don’t have trouble on the path. It’s steep beside the 
gorge.” 

He wants to make sure we cross the border. 
Talltail prickled with irritation. Why was an invisible 
scent line so important? 

“Thanks.” Barkface shook the water from his fur. 
He dipped his head to the RiverClan warriors, the 
precious plant in his jaws. 

Talltail swished his tail, stirring the pebbles behind. 
“Thanks,” he grunted, and headed toward the gorge. 

At the top, Barkface dropped the root at Talltail’s 
paws. “Take this to Hawkheart as quickly as you can. 
You’re faster than me and he’ll know what to do with 
it.” 

“Okay.” Talltail grabbed the root and pelted up the 
slope toward camp. The wind streamed through his 
ears, freezing the tips. 

As he burst into camp and raced across the clearing, 
Hawkheart stuck his head out of the medicine den. 
“You got it!” He snatched the root from Talltail’s 


mouth and disappeared inside. Talltail paced in a tight 
circle outside. 

Meadowslip hurried over with her mate, 
Hickorynose. 

Hickorynose glanced at Talltail’s wet pelt. “Did you 
swim the river?” His eyes widened. 

“Tt was the only way across.” 

Hickorynose dipped his head. “Thank you, Talltail. 
Your courage may have saved our kit’s life.” He 
looked past Talltail toward the medicine den. 

Talltail followed his gaze. “Let’s hope it works.” 


“I smell grouse.” Dawnstripe jerked her head 
toward the heather. It shimmered, frost-tipped, in the 
early morning sunshine. Beside her, the bramble that 
marked the Fourtrees border still reeked with the 
stench of ShadowClan. 

Aspenfall tasted the air, nodding. “Definitely 
grouse.” 

Plumclaw lifted her tail. “It'll make a good meal for 
the elders.” 

Talltail was impressed with how willingly the 
tunnelers had slipped into the role of moor runners now 


that all the tunnels had been blocked off. Their 
underground duties had given them agility and strength, 
traits easily turned to hunting on the moor. 

Dawnstripe headed across the grass. “Perhaps 
Hopkit will be well enough to eat some today.” 

In the sunrises since Talltail and Barkface had 
returned from RiverClan, Hopkit had rarely been 
conscious. The sedge root hadn’t cured him overnight, 
but it seemed to have slowed the infection and given 
the young tom a chance to fight for his life. Barkface 
had even reported that the swelling in his paw had 
begun to ease. Hopkit might yet recover. 

“Talltail?” Dawnstripe’s mew jolted Talltail from his 
thoughts. Plumclaw and Aspenfall were already nosing 
their way into the wide swathe of heather. “Are you 
coming?” 

Talltail’s nose twitched as he scented rabbit. “You 
can catch grouse without me,” he told her. “I smell 
prey here.” 

“You'd rather hunt alone?” Dawnstripe narrowed 
her eyes, then followed her Clanmates without waiting 
for an answer. 

Why waste four warriors on one catch? Talltail 


watched her tail disappear into the heather, then 
sniffed the grass. The ShadowClan stink from the 
bramble was distracting, but as he followed the faint 
rabbit scent along the slope to where it dipped toward 
the Thunderpath, it grew stronger. His mouth began to 
water. He’d never caught rabbit here before. Rabbits 
rarely strayed this far from their burrows. Halfway 
down the slope, he paused. Unease pricked in his pelt. 

Lifting his head, he tasted the air. There was more 
than one rabbit scent here. There were many. Had 
they dug new burrows on the slope? He scanned the 
grass, looking for tunnel openings, but it was smooth 
and unbroken. Why had so many rabbits passed this 
way? Deep in his belly, worry churned harder. 

The Thunderpath ran along the bottom of the slope. 
Monsters hurtled past, their roars ringing through the 
stone-cold air. Talltail blocked out their stench and tried 
to focus on the scent of rabbit. He suddenly realized it 
was tinged with blood. He wasn’t smelling live prey; 
he was smelling fresh-kill! He padded farther down 
the slope, flattening his ears. His time in Twolegplace 
had taught him that the monsters were more noise than 
danger so long as he stayed clear of their path. 


The blood stench sharpened as he drew closer. 
Perhaps rabbits were killed by monsters here. Talltail 
scanned the glittering, black stone of the Thunderpath. 
There was no sign of crow-food. Sniffing, he followed 
the blood scent along its edge. He slowed. He was 
nearing the tunnel that passed underneath the 
Thunderpath and joined WindClan territory to 
ShadowClan’s border, echoing with the howls of the 
monsters hurtling over it. He hadn’t been here in a long 
time. Dawnstripe had shown him the opening when he 
was an apprentice, but WindClan warriors rarely 
patrolled in this corner. There was little to hunt here, 
and ShadowClan scent markers didn’t begin until the 
other side of the Thunderpath. 

Curiosity pulled Talltail on. The blood scent tainted 
the air, stronger as he neared. He scrambled down the 
ditch at the edge of the Thunderpath and pushed 
through the long grass choking the tunnel entrance. 
Blood streaked the stems, and as he slid into the dank, 
stinking tunnel, he saw more blood frozen into the 
muddy water pooled at the bottom. How many rabbits 
had been killed and dragged through here? Talltail 
swallowed. ShadowClan scents hung fresh in the air. 


Pelt bushing, he turned and raced up the slope. 
Pushing hard against the rough grass, he pelted toward 
the heather. “Dawnstripe!” At his call, a grouse 
fluttered up from the bushes. He shouldered his way 
in, the stems scraping his muzzle as he raced along a 
rabbit trail. 

“What in the name of StarClan are you doing?” 
Dawnstripe burst out of the heather and blocked his 
path. 

Talltail skidded to a halt. “ShadowClan has been 
stealing prey and taking it through the tunnel!” 

Dawnstripe’s pelt spiked. “Have you seen them?” 

“I saw blood trails and ShadowClan scent was 
everywhere.” 

Plumclaw stormed out behind Dawnstripe. “You 
scared off the grouse!” Her eyes blazed. 

Aspenfall barged past her. “I was about to attack.” 

Talltail squared his shoulders. “ShadowClan is using 
the tunnel under the Thunderpath to steal prey from 
the moor.” He glared at Aspenfall. “Go and tell 
Heatherstar. Bring warriors. We need to re-mark the 
border. They have to know that if they cross it again 
they face a fight.” 


Aspenfall turned and pushed away through the 
heather. 

“Come and see.” Talltail beckoned Dawnstripe to 
follow as he turned and headed back toward the 
tunnel. 

He led her down the slope, Plumclaw close behind. 
“Ignore the monsters,” Talltail muttered as they neared 
the Thunderpath. “They’ll stick to their path.” He 
padded to the tunnel, pushing back the grass with a 
paw so that Dawnstripe could lean in and sniff the 
rabbit blood. 

“It reeks of ShadowClan,” she growled, flinching 
away. 

Plumclaw sniffed, frowning. “How long have they 
been doing this?” 

Dawnstripe lashed her tail. “Quite a while, by the 
smell of it,” she hissed. 

Talltail ripped the grass with his claws. “Heatherstar 
should keep a patrol here day and night.” Rage pulsed 
in his paws. “ShadowClan needs to learn that 
WindClan doesn’t give up prey without a fight.” 

Dawnstripe eyed him. “Wasn’t it you who gave 
WindClan prey to RiverClan?” 


Talltail bristled. “It was RiverClan’s prey to begin 
with,” he reminded her. “And they took it with my 
permission. They didn’t steal while our tails were 
turned.” He glared across the Thunderpath, blind to the 
monsters flashing past. “There’s a difference between 
a starving Clan and a thieving Clan.” 

Plumclaw circled Dawnstripe, pelt ruffled. “How 
dare they—” 

“Hush!” Talltail silenced her. Paw steps were 
thrumming through the tunnel, echoing against the 
stone walls. 

“Attack!” A shriek ripped through the air. 
ShadowClan warriors streamed from the tunnel, eyes 
blazing with hate. 

Talltail unsheathed his claws. “Invasion!” 


j 
<— 





CHAPTER 43 
te 


& 


“ShadowClan, attack!’ Cedarstar yowled as he 
charged up the slope. Ears flat, teeth showing, he 
raced at Dawnstripe. Talltail hurled himself in front of 
her. 

“I don’t need your help!” she hissed, dodging around 


him to meet the ShadowClan leader head-on. 

Paws slammed into Talltail’s side. White fur blinded 
him as Blizzardwing knocked him off his paws and 
lunged for his throat. Talltail rolled. Teeth snapped at 
his cheek, catching his whiskers and plucking them out. 
Talltail scrambled to his paws, reared up, and brought 
his claws down on Blizzardwing’s ears. Plumclaw was 
wrestling in the mud downslope, locked in combat with 
a ginger tabby. Did the tunneler have enough battle 
skills to fight him off? Dawnstripe shrieked with pain. 
Talltail whipped around. Newtspeck had joined 
Cedarstar. The black-and-ginger she-cat was battering 
Dawnstripe’s muzzle while Cedarstar raked her flank 
with vicious claws. 

“You can’t save her, rabbit heart!” Blizzardwing 
snarled. 

Talltail boiled with rage. “I’m no rabbit heart!” He 
dived forward, butting Blizzardwing’s shoulder with 
such force that the ShadowClan warrior staggered 
backward. Talltail ducked and nipped his forepaw and 
the tom fell to the ground, rolling onto his back. 
Leaping onto him, Talltail clung to his shoulders and 
churned his claws against Blizzardwing’s belly. He 


tipped his head away as Blizzardwing snapped at it, 
springing off before the tom could tear out more 
whiskers. 

Plumclaw screeched with fury as a ShadowClan 
apprentice, Raggedpaw, joined the ginger tabby’s 
attack. The tunneler was beating them off with a flurry 
of blows, but they were driving her farther down the 
slope, closer to the monsters thundering past. Less 
than a tail-length from Talltail, Cedarstar wrestled 
Dawnstripe onto her spine. Newtspeck nipped at her 
thrashing hind legs. Blood stained her muzzle. 

Dawnstripe! Talltail tried to jump toward her but 
claws pierced his flanks and Blizzardwing dragged him 
back. He glanced desperately up the slope. Had 
Aspenfall persuaded Heatherstar to send warriors? 
Dawnstripe shrieked. If help didn’t come soon, they’d 
have to retreat. Talltail turned and swiped 
Blizzardwing’s throat, rage surging through him. 

Blizzardwing staggered back, his eyes lighting with 
surprise as blood splashed from his white scruff. “Not 
bad for a WindClan cat,” he hissed. 

Snarling, Talltail lunged at the tom. Blizzardwing 
reared up on his hind paws. Talltail saw him totter, 


unbalanced by the slope. Twisting in the air, he aimed 
for the tom’s unsteady hind leg and sank in his teeth. 
Blizzardwing yowled with rage, and curling around, bit 
deep into Talltail’s shoulder. Pain scorched through 
him. 

“Talltail!” ~Dawnstripe’s panicked screech ripped 
through the air. 

Talltail twisted away from Blizzardwing. Cedarstar 
loomed over Dawnstripe as she writhed on the grass. 
Newtspeck leaned back, her lip curling in delight. 
Talltail braced himself to watch the ShadowClan leader 
deliver the death blow. Then he felt the ground tremble 
beneath him. Paws were thrumming toward them 
across the moor. Help is coming! If they could just 
hold the ShadowClan patrol for a few moments more. 
Energy surged beneath Talltail’s pelt. He ripped free of 
Blizzardwing’s grip, ignoring the burning sensation of 
losing fur. 

Familiar pelts were streaking down the slope toward 
them. Reedfeather hared across the grass, his limp 
vanishing now that his blood was up. Hareflight, 
Cloudrunner, Redclaw, and Shrewclaw raced at his 
heels. Beside Talltail, Blizzardwing’s eyes stretched 


wide as Redclaw smashed into him, hissing. With a 
hefty blow, Cloudrunner sent Newtspeck staggering 
away from Dawnstripe while Reedfeather and 
Hareflight raced to help Plumclaw. 

Shrewclaw glared at Cedarstar as the ShadowClan 
leader pinned Dawnstripe to the ground. Talltail saw 
hate gleam in his denmate’s gaze as Shrewclaw sprang 
onto Cedarstar’s back and dragged him off 
Dawnstripe. His claws sank deep. “This is for my 
mother! Remember Brackenwing?” Shrewclaw 
snarled. Jerking Cedarstar around, he slammed a hefty 
paw against the leader’s cheek. Blood spattered the 
grass as Cedarstar fell. Eyes blazing, Shrewclaw 
lunged at him again. 

Talltail stared, shocked by the savagery of 
Shrewclaw’s attack. Thats what revenge is. There 
was nothing cold or planned about Shrewclaw’s rage. 
In the heat of battle, it drove him like fire through 
bracken. This was a true warrior’s battle. 

Heart pounding, Talltail jumped in beside Shrewclaw, 
pummeling Cedarstar down as the ShadowClan leader 
tried to struggled free. Shrewclaw glanced in surprise 
at Talltail. 


‘TIl help you kill him,” Talltail hissed. 

Shrewclaw lifted his forepaws and together they 
swiped at the blood-spattered tom, driving him toward 
the Thunderpath. 

“Cedarstar!”” Newtspeck’s yowl split the air as the 
tabby warrior rushed to help her leader. She dived for 
Shrewclaw, ears flat, lips drawn back. She sank her 
yellow teeth into Shrewclaw’s shoulder, thrusting her 
paws around the WindClan warrior and hauling him off 
Cedarstar. Shrewclaw snarled and thrashed with his 
paws as he tried to reach for Cedarstar. But Redclaw 
had grabbed Cedarstar and was pinning him to the 
ground. 

“Retreat!” Cedarstar fought free of Redclaw and 
fled for the tunnel. 

At his cry, his warriors followed. As the last tail 
disappeared into the tunnel, Talltail heard a groan. He 
turned. “Shrewclaw!” 

Hareflight was crouching over the WindClan 
warrior. Talltail raced to his side, slipping on the wet 
grass. He glanced down and saw his paws turn red. 
The wetness was blood. It pumped from Shrewclaw’s 
belly like water from the spring. “Fetch Barkface!” he 


shrieked to Dawnstripe. She met his gaze, her eyes 
glittering with horror, then dashed up the slope. 

“Hang on, Shrewclaw.” Talltail leaned over his 
denmate, his heart twisting. 

Hareflight crouched stiffly beside him. “He’ Il die like 
his mother.” The warrior’s mew cracked. “Killed 
defending the moor against ShadowClan.” 

“He won’t die!” Talltail growled. “He can’t! Not 
like this. It wouldn’t be fair.” 

Life isn t fair. Jake’s words rang in his ears. 

Shrewclaw shuddered, another groan escaping his 
lips. Talltail pressed his paws against Shrewclaw’s 
wounds. Blood ran over his fur. “It won’t stop!” 

“Wormceat?” Shrewclaw rasped weakly. “Avenge 
Brackenwing for me.” 

“You can avenge her yourself!” Talltail gasped. 
‘Don’t die, Shrewclaw. There are too many battles to 
fight.” 

Shrewclaw twitched, his eyes rolling, then fell still. 

Hareflight’s shoulders drooped. “Shrewclaw.” The 
word came out as a sob. Trembling, the brown warrior 
leaned forward and closed Shrewclaw’s eyes with a 
soft lap of his tongue. “You were a good apprentice,” 


he murmured. “And a great warrior. WindClan honors 
you.” 

Talltail turned away, his gaze blurring. This battle 
had been fought over rabbits—and now Shrewclaw 
was dead. Were ShadowClan’s warriors so hungry 
they were willing to kill for stolen prey, or did their 
hatred for WindClan run deeper than he’d ever 
imagined? 





Talltail stretched, enjoying the warmth of the 
newleaf sun on his pelt. Beside him the heather was 
bright with green bud. Overhead, a blue sky stretched, 
cloudless, across the moor. In another half moon, the 
gorse would be aflame with yellow flowers. 


He could hear Hopkit purring outside the medicine 
den as Hawkheart picked fleas from the young tom’s 
spine. Hopkit was well enough to groom his own pelt 
and should have moved back to the nursery by now. 
His fever had healed in the moon since the battle with 
ShadowClan, but the nursery was overcrowded. 
Pigeonkit and Sorrelkit were too big to share a nest, 
Meadowslip was restless, and Ryestalk had just moved 
in, her belly swelling with the promise of new kits. 

“Sit stil Hawkheart growled, cracking a flea 
between his teeth and spitting it onto the grass. 

“Hawkheart?” Hopkit rolled lazily over. “If 
Heatherstar says I can’t become a warrior, do you 
think I could be a medicine cat?” 

“No.” Hawkheart sat up. “You’re too fidgety.” He 
gazed across the clearing to where Barkface was 
making sure that Dawnstripe’s battle wounds had 
properly healed. “Besides, WindClan doesn’t need 
another medicine cat.” 

Hopkit held up his paw. Although the infection had 
gone, his foot was limp and flat, and he had no feeling 
in it. “But how can I be a warrior with this?” 

“You can walk on it, can’t you?” Hawkheart wasn’t 


giving a drop of sympathy. 

“T can limp.” 

Hawkheart snorted. “If you can limp, you can walk. 
If you can walk, you can hunt.” 

“What about fighting?” Hopkit persisted. “What if I 
can’t fight?” 

“Then you'll just have to argue your enemies to 
death.” Hawkheart settled onto his side and half closed 
his eyes. “You’re great at arguing.” 

“No, I’m not.” 

Talltail’s whiskers twitched. He wondered if 
Hawkheart was mellowing now that gray whiskers 
were showing on his muzzle. But he suspected it was 
Hopkit’s warmth that had thawed the stern, old 
medicine cat. 

Barkface headed across the clearing. Talltail sat up 
as he neared. “Is Dawnstripe okay?” 

“She’s fine. An extra scar on her muzzle, but it’s 
healed cleanly.” Barkface settled down beside Talltail, 
narrowing his eyes against the bright sun. “I’m worried 
about Reedfeather’s shoulder, though,’ he mewed. 
“The battle made it worse and he’s not getting any 
younger. If he strains it again, he could be lame for 


life.” 

Talltail gazed across the Meeting Hollow to where 
the WindClan deputy lay beside Heatherstar, sharing a 
plover. Reedfeather’s pale tabby pelt looked as ragged 
as an elder’s. Talltail felt a pang of sorrow for the old 
warrior. He’d served his Clan loyally for moons. He 
deserved to be leader one day, but he’d never survive 
for another eight lifetimes. 

The heather shivered as Palebird padded into the 
camp. A mouse hung from her jaws. Wrenkit looked 
up from where she was stalking Flykit behind the 
Hunting Stones. She bounded toward her mother. “Is 
that for us?” 

Flykit chased after her, Bristlekit and Rabbitkit 
popping up from the grass and scrambling over the 
tussocks. Palebird dropped the mouse at Wrenkit’s 
paws. Wrenkit hooked it toward her with a claw. 
“Don’t worry, Palebird,” she told her mother earnestly. 
“TIl make sure everyone gets a fair share.” 

“Yowre a good little warrior,’ Palebird purred, 
before heading toward Talltail. 

Talltail lifted his chin. “Hello, Palebird,’” he meowed. 
“Good hunting?” 


Palebird licked her lips. “Very good.” 

Talltail was pleased to see Palebird catching her 
own prey again. She seemed a lot more cheerful now 
that she had begun to leave the camp to hunt. 

Woollytail called to her from the bracken patch. 
“Did you bring something back for me?” 

Palebird looked at him fondly. “Catch your own 
prey, you old badger! I’m already feeding four 
mouths.” 

Woollytail flicked his tail happily but didn’t move 
from his nest. 

“Do you think he misses the tunnels?” Talltail asked 
his mother. 

“Of course,” Palebird meowed. “We all do. But at 
least I don’t have to worry about cave-ins anymore.” 

Talltail shifted his paws. Cave-ins weren’t the only 
danger to warriors. Life aboveground held just as 
many risks. Once more, Shrewclaw’s death flashed in 
his mind. Talltail had managed to wash the young tom’s 
blood from his paws, but he couldn’t wash away the 
terrible memory. He tried to distract himself. “How’s 
Ryestalk settling in?” He nodded toward the nursery. 

“Fine, but it’s crowded. She’ll be more comfortable 


once Heatherstar’s made Pigeonkit and Sorrelkit 
apprentices. They must be six moons by now. They’re 
as big as hares.” 

“Is Ryestalk still grieving for Shrewclaw?” Talltail 
meowed. 

“Of course,” Palebird told him, looking surprised. 
“But her grief will ease once she sees his kits.” 

Knowing that Ryestalk carried the dead warrior’s 
kits had given comfort to the whole Clan, and they 
fussed over Ryestalk like she was a precious egg 
waiting to hatch. The young queen had more wool in 
her nest than an elder, and was never alone. 
Lilywhisker made sure there was always someone to 
watch her, bringing her food whenever her belly 
rumbled and fetching water-soaked moss if she 
mentioned thirst. 

Guilt flickered through Talltail. “I wish I’d fought 
harder,” he mewed. “Shrewclaw might still be alive.” 

Palebird’s gaze softened. “You can’t save everyone, 
Talltail.” 

Outside the medicine den, Hopkit pounced lopsidedly 
as Hawkheart tossed a clump of moss for him to 
catch. Talltail straightened up, an idea flashing in his 


mind. “I might not succeed,” he murmured. “But I can 
try.” He trotted across the grass to the Meeting 
Hollow. “Heatherstar.” He stopped by her side. “May 
I speak with you?” 

Reedfeather struggled to his paws. “Should I go?” 

“No,” Talltail told him. Why shouldn’t the WindClan 
deputy know what he was planning? 

“What is it?” Heatherstar sat up, licking a feather 
from her lips. 

‘Td like to be Hopkit’s mentor,” Talltail announced. 

Heatherstar blinked. “You think he’s fit enough to 
train?” She glanced past Talltail to the medicine den. 
Hopkit was chasing Hawkheart’s moss bundle in 
spirals, springing up to bat it down with his lame paw 
as it flew into the air. 

Talltail followed her gaze. “Don’t you?” 

Reedfeather shifted his paws. “He looks agile.” 

“He can play,” Heatherstar conceded. “But can he 
hunt or fight? Would he be any use in battle?” 

“You might as well wonder if Pigeonkit can fight,” 
Talltail pointed out. “His legs are short. And Sorrelkit 
will never have the speed of Stagleap.” 

“Or you.” Reedfeather dipped his head to Talltail. 


“We all have our flaws,” Talltail pressed. “But we 
overcome them.” He suddenly thought of Jake. His 
friend’s kittypet softness hadn’t stopped him from 
leaping into battle with a fox. “And sometimes, it’s our 
flaws that make us who we are.” 

Hopkit bounced again and again for the moss, 
undeterred even when he missed. 

Reedfeather nodded toward the young tom. “He’s 
Clanborn,” he meowed. “What else can he be but a 
warrior? Would you confine him to the elders’ den for 
life?” 

Heatherstar met her deputy’s gaze, then turned to 
Talltail “Very well.” She stretched. “Lets do it.” 
Leaping onto Tallrock, she called to her Clan. “Let all 
cats old enough to catch prey gather beneath 
Tallrock.” 

Hickorynose sat up in the bracken patch beside 
Woollytail. “What’s going on?” 

Woollytail lifted his head. “Let’s find out.” 

“I think I know!” Hickorynose jumped out of the 
bracken and hurried toward the nursery, where 
Meadowslip was already squeezing out. 

She met Hickorynose’s gaze hopefully. “Is it what I 


think it is?” 

He glanced past her. “I think so. Where are they?” 
As he spoke, Pigeonkit and Sorrelkit scrambled 
through the gorse. 

“Ts it time?” Pigeonkit blinked up at Heatherstar. 

Hickorynose smoothed the fur tufting on his 
shoulder. “Yes, it is.” 

Sorrelkit looked at the medicine den. “What about 
Hopkit?” she asked quietly. Hopkit had stopped playing 
and was staring wistfully up at Heatherstar on top of 
Tallrock. 

“Your brother understands that he can’t be an 
apprentice like you,” Meadowsli told her briskly. 

“TPI teach him a few hunting tricks,” Hickorynose 
promised. “Just because he’s not an apprentice doesn’t 
mean he’ll be stuck in camp.” 

Talltail flicked his tail with irritation as he overheard. 
Why had everyone given up on Hopkit so easily? He 
jumped into the Meeting Hollow and sat down, ears 
pricked as his Clanmates gathered around him. He’d 
show everyone that Hopkit would make a great 
warrior. 

Heatherstar leaped down from Tallrock and padded 


to the middle of the hollow. “Sorrelkit, Pigeonkit!” she 
called. 

Sorrelkit and Pigeonkit scrambled into the hollow 
and trotted over to the Clan leader. 

“It’s been a hard leaf-bare, with too many losses.” 
Heatherstar dipped her head to Ryestalk, watching 
hollow-eyed from the nursery. “But today WindClan 
has new apprentices. Pigeonpaw.” She flicked her tail 
along the gray tom’s spine. “Your mentor will be 
Doespring.” 

Doespring stepped forward looking proud and 
touched her nose to Pigeonpaw’s head. Pigeonpaw 
plucked excitedly at the ground. 

“This is your first apprentice, but I have no doubt 
you will train him well. Share your spirit and speed 
with him,” Heatherstar instructed Doespring. The pale 
brown she-cat purred with delight. 

The WindClan leader turned to  Sorrelkit. 
“Sorrelpaw, your mentor will be Stagleap.” 

Sorrelpaw’s eyes widened as the broad-shouldered 
tom padded forward to greet her. Her tail twitched 
nervously as he touched her head. 

“Don’t worry, Sorrelpaw,’ Stagleap whispered. 


“You'll be a great apprentice. And I promise not to eat 
you.” 

“May you learn boldness and loyalty from him.” 
Heatherstar’s eyes shone. 

“I will!” Sorrelpaw promised. 

Heatherstar lifted her head and looked at the 
medicine den. “Hopkit, come here.” 

Hopkit stared back, eyes stretched wide. “Me?” 

Heatherstar nodded. She caught Talltail’s eye and 
gave a tiny flick of her tail-tip, inviting him to join her. 
Talltail stepped onto the sand, his heart quickening with 
excitement. Hopkit limped down into the hollow and 
hobbled toward Heatherstar. 

“Welcome. Your apprentice name will be 
Deadpaw,” Heatherstar announced. 

“Deadpaw?”’ Meadowslip’s gasp rang over the 
hollow. “Heatherstar, no! You can’t name him because 
of what’s wrong with him!” 

Deadpaw raised his chin. “It’s okay; I don’t mind! 
I’m going to be a warrior. My paw may be dead, but 
the rest of me is still alive!” 

“Well done, Deadpaw!” Whiteberry rasped. 

Hickorynose looked thoughtful. “A name like that 


could trick our enemies into thinking he can’t fight. 
You’ ll show them, won’t you, Deadpaw?” 

The little black tom nodded earnestly, and purrs of 
approval rippled around the Clan. 

Heatherstar went on. “Your mentor will be Talltail.” 
She beckoned Talltail forward with a nod, but he was 
already hurrying across the sandy earth. “Share your 
sense of adventure and courage with him, Talltail.” 

Deadpaw pushed up his head to meet Talltail’s 
muzzle. “I’m so glad it’s you!” 

“Deadpaw!” 

“Sorrelpaw!” 

“Pigeonpaw!” 

The Clan lifted their voices, calling the names of the 
new apprentices. 

‘Pll teach you to be a great warrior,’ Talltail 
whispered in Deadpaw’s ear. I’m a mentor! Only a 
few moons ago he’d been living a rogue’s life far 
beyond the borders of the Clan. Now he was helping 
to make WindClan strong. Deadpaw depended on him 
to learn how to hunt and fight. We’ll show them. Even 
on three paws, you'll be able to outfight a 
ShadowClan warrior! Deadpaw’s purr rumbled 


beside him. 

Talltail looked up, across the top of the heather and 
beyond the rolling green moor. J wish you could see 
this, Jake. His old friend would be proud to see how 
much he had changed. You always said I was a 
warrior. His heart swelled. Now I truly am. 


j 
a 





CHAPTER 45 
te 


ko 


“Are you ready?” Barkfaces eyes glowed in 
starlight as he paused at the entrance to the tunnel. 
Mothermouth loomed ahead, gaping black in the silver 
cliff. 

Talltail nodded. “I’m ready.” 


The journey across the valley had been filled with 
memories. As he walked the same fields he’d walked 
so many moons before, Talltail had been swept back to 
the troubled curiosity of his youth. But now the 
boundaries that had once made him feel trapped and 
restless were his to protect and honor. If StarClan 
accepted him, he would be WindClan’s leader by 
dawn. 

Grief wrenched at his heart with sharp claws. 
Heatherstar’s last moments had been cruel. 
Greencough had wracked her body, choking her 
savagely into an agonizing death. 

“Talltail.” She had beckoned him closer as she lay in 
her nest, heat pulsing from her flanks, her pelt clumped 
and stinking. Swallowing back sorrow, Talltail had 
crouched over her. 

“Have courage, Talltail”’ Heatherstar had croaked. 
“You followed your heart once and it made you 
stronger. It forged a bond between you and WindClan 
that nothing can ever break.” A cough shook her body. 
She didn’t fight it, too weak to do anything but submit. 
As it released her, she dragged in a shuddering breath. 
“Always follow your heart, Talltail, as you did then. Let 


it guide you in everything you do.” Her chest rattled as 
she struggled to breathe. “WindClan is yours now.” 
With a rasp, she stiffened and fell still. 

Barkface squeezed past Talltail and nudged 
Heatherstar gently with his muzzle, straightening her 
twisted body and curling her tail around her paws so 
that she looked as though she were comfortably 
asleep. “Mudclaw!” he called through the entrance. 
“Tell the Clan it’s time for them to sit in vigil for their 
leader.” He nosed Talltail to his paws and guided him 
from the den. 

Outside, the dying sun streaked the grass red. A 
cold wind whistled across the heather. “We should go 
to the Moonstone so you can receive your lives,” 
Barkface told him. 

Talltail nodded. He could feel strength seeping back 
into him as he watched his Clanmates padding slowly 
toward Heatherstar’s den. He was responsible for 
them now. 

Onekit scampered behind Wrenflight. “Is she really 
dead?” 

“Hush,” his mother scolded. “Show some respect.” 

“But she’ll be in StarClan!” Onekit squeaked. He 


gazed up at the sky as stars began to show. “Do you 
think she’s watching us yet?” 

“Come on, Talltail.” Barkface flicked his tail toward 
the camp entrance. “If we leave now, we’ll be back in 
time to join the vigil.” 

Now, at Highstones, Talltail shivered—half with 
cold, half with fear—as Mothermouth yawned before 
him. All his life, it had seemed as if tunnels shaped his 
destiny. Now this one would guide him to becoming 
WindClan’s leader. He glanced at the sky, wondering if 
Sandgorse was watching. Or Palebird, who’d died 
moons before. Squaring his shoulders, he padded into 
the darkness. Barkface followed, his breath billowing 
in the cold before the shadows swallowed it. Talltail’s 
paws seemed to guide him without thinking, leading 
him along the twists and tums, as though the 
Moonstone drew him on. 

Light glowed ahead. The moon was already shining 
on the Great Rock. As Talltail turned the corner, the 
light blinded him. Fear flashed through him. Last time 
he’d been here, StarClan hadn’t shared anything with 
him. He’d been an apprentice, confused about where 
his path would lead, doubtful that he truly belonged in 


WindClan. What would his ancestors say to him now? 

As he hesitated, Barkface padded past, no more 
than a dark shape against the dazzling rock. “It’s time,” 
he meowed, and his voice echoed around the unseen 
walls of the cave. 

Talltail padded forward and settled beside the 
sparkling stone. Closing his eyes, he stretched his 
muzzle forward and touched the Moonstone. He 
twitched as the stone floor lurched beneath him, then 
blinked open his eyes. He was on the moor. Stars 
spiraled down until they sparked among the heather 
like silver flames becoming cats. Talltail stared, 
openmouthed, as countless starry pelts lined the 
hillside. 

Mole stepped forward from the glittering ranks. 
“Welcome, Talltail.” 

Talltail gaped at him in disbelief. “You’re in 
StarClan! But . . . but you weren’t a warrior.” 

“I believed in StarClan.” Mole looked over his 
shoulder at the rows of glittermg cats. “And they 
believed in me.” 

“You never said anything while you were alive.” 
Talltail didn’t understand. “Why didn’t you join 


WindClan if you believed the same as us?” 

“How could I abandon my companions?” Mole 
asked him. “They were like kin to me.” He leaned 
forward and touched his nose to Talltail’s. 

Energy surged through Talltail at once, more 
powerful than a gust of wind. He rocked on his paws 
like heather. 

“With this life, I give you courage, Talltail.” Mole’s 
mew sounded through the fury. “The courage to do 
what you believe to be right.” 

Stillness enfolded him like the shadow from a bird’s 
wings. Talltail opened his eyes. Mole was gone. 
“Where is he?” Talltail cried. 

“He is where he belongs.” 

Talltail recognized his mother’s voice as Palebird 
stepped from among her starry Clanmates. Her pelt 
glowed with a warm light that made Talltail’s eyes 
ache. He narrowed them as she leaned close and 
touched his muzzle. 

“I give you the love of a mother for her kits,” she 
whispered. 

Talltail’s heart swelled, warmth surging through tt. 
Suddenly he felt Palebird’s love for him more strongly 


than he’d ever known before—a burning certainty that 
he’d never doubt again. He felt weak as she stepped 
away, swaying on his paws. Palebird began to fade in 
front of him. Don t go! He felt like a kit again. 

“Talltail?” A young cat padded forward, her pelt 
shining brighter than any star. 

“Who are you?” Talltail stared at her, wondering 
how any kit so small could be in StarClan. Then he 
realized. “Finchkit!” It was his sister, as young as the 
day she died. 

“I have watched you,” she mewed. “And envied 
you so much for having the chance to live in 
WindClan.” 

Shame washed over Talltail. Had he really wished 
he had died in her place, believing that Palebird would 
have loved her more than she loved him? How foolish 
he’d been. And how wrong to be so ungrateful for the 
life he’d been given. “I am lucky,” he agreed. “I will 
never waste another moment.” He gazed at her. “I’m 
sorry that I never had a chance to know you.” 

“You will know me one day,” she purred softly. She 
reached up and Talltail had to stoop to touch her nose. 
“I give you this life so that you may seize every 


opportunity that comes before you, like a rabbit waiting 
to be hunted. I give you the strength to act without fear 
or hesitation.” 

Excitement thrilled through every hair on Talltail’s 
pelt, shocking in its intensity. When Finchkit pulled 
away, he gasped. “Thank you!” The words caught in 
his throat as he watched Finchkit pad away and take 
her place beside Palebird. 

A she-cat appeared in front of him next, her 
sparkling pelt no more than a shimmer on the grass. 
Talltail blinked in surprise. Why was she so faded? A 
breath of wind might blow her away. 

“I am Mothflight.” 

Talltail shifted his paws. He’d heard stories about 
this ancient WindClan medicine cat. “I am honored to 
meet you,” he meowed. 

Mothflight’s eyes flashed. “I was once a cat just like 
you. I still am, even though I walk with StarClan. The 
only difference is that I have watched over all the 
generations that followed me, as you will one day.” 

“Did you watch me?” Talltail felt the words sharp 
on his tongue. There had been so many times when he 
felt StarClan didn’t care. “You weren’t there when I 


first came to the Moonstone.” 

“We were always there,” Mothflight replied gently. 
“But you weren’t ready to see us. You had to find your 
own path before you could walk ours.” Her eyes 
shone even brighter than her pelt. “You did well, 
Talltail, and we are proud of you. And you have only 
just begun your journey.” 

Talltail blinked at her. What did she mean? 

“You will discover something that will bring great 
change, not just for WindClan, but for all the Clans,” 
Mothflight warned. “You must have faith in your 
destiny, for only then can you lead your Clan to where 
it truly belongs. Never forget the time you spent 
beyond the boundaries of your Clan. You alone know 
that a Clan cat can survive anywhere.” She leaned 
forward and touched his muzzle. 

Talltail’s body was wracked with spasms as power 
jolted though him like lightning. Gritting his teeth 
against the pain, he barely heard Mothflight’s final 
words. “With your fourth life I give you a sense of 
adventure so that you may embrace even the greatest 
challenge with determination.” 

He struggled to stay on his paws as the starlit cat 


moved away and the surge of energy released him. 
Heatherstar stepped forward. Talltail’s heart leaped. 
She looked young and strong, her pelt glittering and 
sleek, with no sign of the illness that had taken her 
ninth life. She touched her muzzle to his. 

‘I’m proud of you and I know you will lead 
WindClan well. With this life I give you the power to 
Judge wisely. You above all know how to see through 
the clouds that trouble our Clan, and you will always 
choose the best path forward.” A feeling of great joy 
and confidence surged through Talltail, his mind 
clearing until it seemed to sparkle with the crystal 
purity of the Moonstone itself. 

“Woollytail!” As Heatherstar vanished, Talltail 
greeted the old tunneler with a purr. How had he not 
seen him glittering in the shadows? 

“It is good to see you again, Talltail;’ Woollytail 
meowed. “You know how the tunnelers have shaped 
WindClan’s history. We may not tunnel anymore, but 
you must never let the skills that once protected and 
fed your Clan be forgotten.” His gaze pierced Talltail 
like sunlight. “WindClan must never be afraid to seek 
out new places to shelter and to hunt. I give you this 


life for honoring old traditions on behalf of the future.” 
His nose touched Talltail’s with a spark. Talltail felt 
heaviness pull him down until wisdom seemed to sit 
like stones in his paws. He might struggle to carry this 
weight at first, but he knew it would give him strength 
and clear-sightedness for all the moons to come. 

As Woollytail pulled away, Talltail relished the 
lightness returning, which turned to joy as Dawnstripe 
stepped forward. He leaned forward to greet her. 

‘Im so proud of you, Talltail”’ she meowed. “I 
always knew you'd be a great warrior. You were right 
to train as a moor runner and turn your tail on 
tunneling.” She glanced over her shoulder. Was she 
flashing a triumphant look at Woollytail? Talltail’s 
whiskers twitched. Even in StarClan, they bickered 
over who was best. 

Dawnstripe turned back and touched his nose with 
her wind-cold muzzle. “With this life I give you 
patience. Training the young takes kindness, 
compassion, and forgiveness. They are small gifts, but 
they will be rewarded many times.” Talltail felt a sense 
of calm wash over him with the softness of her breath 
on his muzzle. 


“Thank you,” he murmured. “For your kindness and 
patience and for everything you taught me. It meant a 
lot.” 

Dawnstripe’s eyes sparkled as she turned away. 
Shrewclaw took her place. 

Talltail stepped back in surprise. “Are you here to 
give me a life?” His old rival was the last cat he 
expected to see on this night. He searched 
Shrewclaw’s dark brown pelt, looking for signs of the 
wounds that had killed him. But the tom’s glittering fur 
showed no scars, only starlight. 

Shrewclaw lifted his muzzle. “I know we were 
never friends, Wormcat.” 

‘TPI be Wormstar soon,” Talltail corrected him with 
a purr. 

Shrewclaw’s ear twitched. “But loyalty isn’t rooted 
in friendship. It is much stronger than that. It comes 
from being born and raised under the same sky, from 
walking the same path as our ancestors, and from 
sharing the warrior code.” He pressed his nose to 
Talltail’s. “With this life I commit you to upholding the 
warrior code, whatever challenges you might face. 
This is the wisdom of our ancestors, all our traditions 


distilled. Trust the code to lead you along the right 
path.” Stars swirled through Talltail’s mind as the life 
pulsed through him. He and Shrewclaw were one. Not 
friends. But they would fight side by side in any battle. 

Shrewclaw drew away, dipping his head. Talltail 
took a deep breath. His paws ached from the effort of 
staying upright with so many lives flowing into him, and 
his mind was full of dizzying images. But there was 
one more life to come. 

A broad-shouldered tom appeared, his amber gaze 
glowing with reflected stars. Sandgorse! Talltail felt 
his eyes glisten as he recognized his father. 

“I knew you would be a great warrior, Talltail.” 
Sandgorse’s mew was thick with emotion. 

“Really?” Talltail whispered. 

“Really.” Sandgorse’s eyes shone even brighter. 
“You never needed to kill Sparrow to prove it.” 

“Didn’t you want me to avenge your death?” 

Sandgorse shook his head. “There was no reason 
for vengeance.” 

“So you really did give your life to save Sparrow?” 
There had always been a shadow of doubt at the back 
of Talltail’s mind that the rogue might just have lied in a 


desperate effort to save his own life. 

“What if I hadn’t?” Sandgorse didn’t move. “Would 
you still have killed him?” 

Talltail’s thoughts whirled. “I don’t know.” He 
remembered his rage so clearly it took his breath 
away. But he also remembered the relief when it 
faded, and he had saved Sparrow from the 
Thunderpath. He dipped his head. “I guess that 
whatever happened to you in the tunnel, I’m glad I 
didn’t kill him.” 

“I did save his life, Talltail”’ Sandgorse told him. 
“Sparrow was telling the truth.” 

Talltail’s heart seemed to shift and lighten in his 
chest, as though an ancient wrong had been righted. 
Sandgorse took a pace forward and touched his nose 
to Talltail’s. At once stars swept down and swirled him 
through the night-black sky. Dizzy, he heard 
Sandgorse’s words over the rushing of the silver wind. 

“I give you this life for forgiveness. No death need 
ever be avenged. Forgiveness brings peace far more 
surely than vengeance.” 

Talltail felt his ruffled fur smooth, his claws retract 
into his pads, his breath come steadily. Mercy was his, 


and always would be. 

“T’m sorry you had to learn the hard way, Zallstar,” 
Sandgorse meowed. 

Tallstar opened his eyes. Behind his father, the ranks 
of starry cats glowed and shimmered against the wind- 
stirred heather. Tallstar let his gaze rest on each cat. “I 
promise you all that I will lead WindClan with the 
fierce devotion of a father and the pure love of a 
mother. Nothing matters more to me than making 
WindClan strong so that future generations may live 
with dignity and peace. Every cat I have known—” 
He paused as Jake filled his thoughts. He pictured his 
old friend’s green eyes glowing with pride. “Every cat 
I have loved has taught me the meaning of friendship 
and the unbending power of the warrior code.” 

Sandgorse leaned forward and lapped Tallstar’s 
cheek with his rough, warm tongue. “I couldn’t be 
more proud of you, Tallstar,’ he whispered. “Go well, 
lead strongly, and protect WindClan from the storms 
that lie ahead. For they will come, no matter what 
StarClan does.” He took a pace back and fixed 
Tallstar with his gaze, brimming with love. “And there 
will be a kit, kin of your dearest friend, who will need 


your help more than he knows. Watch over him, guide 
his paws, for he is important to all the Clans.” 

Tallstar gaped at his father. My dearest friend? 
Would Jake father kits? He lifted his chin, certain in 
the knowledge that he would watch over any kit of 
Jake’s as though it were his own. 

Sandgorse’s eyes clouded. “I can say no more, but 
you will know this cat when you see him. Just 
remember, there is no need to be afraid of every 
flame. Fire can bring life, warmth, new growth, as well 
as death.” 

Tallstar blinked. The vision of cats was fading in 
front of him, and he could see the dazzling light of the 
Moonstone piercing the shadows. “I will remember,” 
he vowed. “I will always remember.” 


See what happens next in an 
exclusive manga adventure 





CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ARTBY 
JAMES L. BARRY 


WE ARRIVE AT LAST 


LOOK AT US...CATS OF 
ALL FOUR CLANS. STARVED 
ANO EXHAUSTED. 


TT OnLy DRIVES 





MY NAME IS TALLSTAR. 

LEADER OF WINDCLAN 

I HAVE LED MY CLAN 
RERE.. 


THOUGH I FEAR IT 15 THE 
LAST THING I SHALL EVER 
ACCOMPLISH. 





BG TBLIGH WINDCLAN'S 
BOUNDARIES. .. KEEP EVERYONE 
ELSE'S PAWS OFF OUR 
TERRITORY 


BUT TALLSTAR, WINDCLAN WE HAVE MORE 
COMES BEFORE EVERYTHING IMPORTANT MATTERS TO 
ELSE. WE MUST PROTECT DEAL WITH NOW THAN 

CLAN BOUNDARIES, 


AK, ONEWHISKER.. 
A FINE WARRIOR, AWD JUST AS 
FINE A VOICE OF REASON. 


BUT THE LAST THING 
WE NEED 15 TO MAKE 
PRESH ENEMIES. 


THINGS LIKE FINDING 
A SUITABLE NEW CAMP, 
LOCATING A SOURCE OF 

FRESH WATER... 





EVER THE WATCHRA EYE. HE MEANS 
WELL, OF COURSE, BUT... HE MAKES 
ME PEEL MY AGE. 


T WATCH AS BLACKS TAR, THE 
SHACOWCLAN LEADER PREPARES TO 
ADORESS ALL THE CLAN CAT! 


FOR NOW, TAM HAPPY TO LET HIM 
SPEAK FOR ALL THE LEADERS...AND NOT 
JUST BECAUSE I NO LONGER THINK T 
CORD WAVE MADE THAT JUNR 


ABOVE ALL ELSE, 
ONEWHSKER, WE MUST LET 
TALSTAR REST APTER THE 

JOURNEY 


ARE YOU IN PAN 
TALLGTAR? I$ THERE 
ANYTHING I CAN GET 

For your 


WE HAVE REACHED 
THE PLACE STARCLAN MEANT 
FOR US TO PND, BUT WE 
APE ALL TIRED AND 
HUNGRY 


WE WLL MAKE CAMP 
WERE UNTIL WE HAVE 
RESTED. 











=— —— SS 
ae OT ON 
Natt Wt eee Wd Wy th 










dil NNN 






M 


Hill 


ill i | NN A 


Mi 


h 





IT WAS OBVIOUS To NE THAT IT NEVER MATTERED TO ME THAT 
FIRESTAR WAS JAKE'S SON THE FIRESTAR BELONGED TO ANOTHER 
MOMENT I FIRST LAID EYES ON HIM. CLAN. T ALWAYS WATCHED OUT FOR 

Hu, SUPPORTED HIM. 


HE'S BEEN LKE A SON W 
» 
ANY 
pe ¢ b 
f 
THE BOLD YOUNG KITTYPET 
WITH THE PLAME-CCLORED PELT AND 


THE LEAP-GREEN EYES... HE'S 3 
JAKE'S SPITTING IMAGE. = — = 
g OF ALL THE CATS IN ALL 
d THE CLANS, IWILL MISS 
ARESTAR THE MOST. 


\ AMONG WINDCLAN, 

HE 1S THE MOST LKE FIRESTAR... 

HS PERSONAUTY HS ABILITY TO P 

SEE PAST CLAN BORDERS. 

a] 

EA 
GRANTS NE THIS CLARITY... 


BUT ICAN GEE OUR CLANS 
PUTURE. I SEE ONEWHISKER-NO, 
ONEGTRR- LEADING THE CATS OF 


WINDCLAN IN HARMONY 
me res WINDCLAN AND THUNDE ELAN 


WORKING TOGETHER, JUST AS OUR TWO 
GLANS HAVE DONE OW THIS JOURNEY 











ARESTAR 
ONEWHSKER, LISTEN. 
MUDCLAW 1S A BRAVE 

WARRIOR, 


BUT HE I6 NOT THE 
RIGHT CAT TO LEAD 
WINDCLAN. 


bees THESE LAST MOONS 


WE HAVE LEARNED THAT 
THE FUTURE OF OUR CLANS 
UES IM FRIENDSHIP. 


T WANT NO RIVALRY 
BETWEEN WINDCLAN AND 
THUNDERCLAN AFTER I AM 
GONE. WE MUST HAVE NO 
ENEMIES. 


THS WILL NOT 
HAPPEN IF MUDCLAW 
RULES THE CLAN 


ICAN STILL CHOOSE 
THE CAT WHO WILL LEAD 
WNOCLAN APTER ME. 


AND PROM THIS MOMENT.. $ 
MIOQAW 16 NO LONGER q 1 SAY THESE WORDS. 
DEPUTY OF WINDCLAN. BEFORE STARCLAN. WINDCLAN 


MUST HAVE...A NEW DEPUTY, 
> A 
jas 

You must uo “Sn 


THE CLAN WHEN T AM 
GONE 








ft May NOT BE 
ane To waxwm P 
N IN STARCLAN 
° > = 
pur 





N O I CANT STAY WITH 
co YOU BUT TLL SEE YOu 
SAFELY TO STARCLAN, 
< ao lel yt 
He S > 
. =A 
> 
o, Ve 
è A 





About the Author 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a 
fascination with the ferocity of the natural world. In 
addition to having great respect for nature in all its 
forms, Erin enjoys creating rich mythical explanations 
for animal behavior. She is also the author of the 
bestselling Seekers and Survivors series. 


Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at 
he.com. 


Other Books in This Series 


WARRIORS 


Book One: Into the Wild 
Book Two: Fire and Ice 
Book Three: Forest of Secrets 
Book Four: Rising Storm 
Book Five: A Dangerous Path 
Book Six: The Darkest Hour 


THE NEW PROPHECY 
Book One: Midnight 
Book Two: Moonrise 


Book Three: Dawn 
Book Four: Starlight 
Book Five: Twilight 
Book Six: Sunset 


POWER OF THREE 
Book One: The Sight 
Book Two: Dark River 
Book Three: Outcast 
Book Four: Eclipse 
Book Five: Long Shadows 
Book Six: Sunrise 


OMEN OF THE STARS 
Book One: The Fourth Apprentice 
Book Two: Fading Echoes 
Book Three: Night Whispers 
Book Four: Sign of the Moon 
Book Five: The Forgotten Warrior 
Book Six: The Last Hope 


DAWN OF THE CLANS 


Book One: The Sun Trail 


EXPLORE THE 


WARRIORS 
WORLD 


Warriors Super Edition: Firestar s Quest 
Warriors Super Edition: Bluestar s Prophecy 
Warriors Super Edition: SkyClan s Destiny 
Warriors Super Edition: Crookedstar s Promise 
Warriors Super Edition: Yellowfang s Secret 
Warriors Field Guide: Secrets of the Clans 
Warriors: Cats of the Clans 
Warriors: Code of the Clans 
Warriors: Battles of the Clans 
Warriors: Enter the Clans 
Warriors: The Untold Stories 


MANGA 


The Lost Warrior 


Warrior s Refuge 
Warrior s Return 
The Rise of Scourge 
Tigerstar and Sasha #1: Into the Woods 
Tigerstar and Sasha #2: Escape from the Forest 
Tigerstar and Sasha #3: Return to the Clans 
Ravenpaw’s Path #1: Shattered Peace 
Ravenpaw 5 Path #2: A Clan in Need 
Ravenpaw s Path #3: The Heart of a Warrior 
SkyClan and the Stranger #1: The Rescue 
SkyClan and the Stranger #2: Beyond the Code 
SkyClan and the Stranger #3: After the Flood 


NOVELLAS 


Hollyleaf 5 Story 
Mistystar s Omen 
Cloudstar s Journey 


Also by Erin Hunter 


SEEKERS 


Book One: The Quest Begins 
Book Two: Great Bear Lake 
Book Three: Smoke Mountain 
Book Four: The Last Wilderness 
Book Five: Fire in the Sky 
Book Six: Spirits in the Stars 


RETURN TO THE WILD 
Book One: Island of Shadows 
Book Two: The Melting Sea 
Book Three: River of Lost Bears 


MANGA 
Toklo 5 Story 
Kallik s Adventure 


SURVIVORS 


Book One: The Empty City 
Book Two: A Hidden Enemy 


Back Ads 


ENTER THE WORLD OF 






Warriors 
Sinister perils threaten the four warrior Clans. Into the midst of this turmoil 
comes Rusty, an ordinary housecat, who may just be the bravest of them all. 














Download the 
free Warriors app at 
www.warriorcats.com 


T: 


arriors: The New Prophecy 
Follow ee next generation of heroic cats as they set off 
on a quest to save the Clans from destruction. 


All Warriors, Seekers, 
and Survivors books are 
available as ebooks 
from HarperCollins. Q Alo availible unabridged from HarperChildreniAadio 

HARPER 


An marn of harpe Cobie 








Visit www.warriorcats.com for the free Warriors app, games, Clan lore, and much more! 










Warriors: Power of Three 
Firestar’s grandchildren begin their training as warrior cats, 





Warriors: Omen of the Stars ites) 
Which ThunderClan apprentice will complete the prophecy that 


foretells that three Clanmates hold the future of the Clans in their paws? 





Warriors: Dawn of the Clans 
Discover how the warrior cat Clans came to be. 


HARPER 
An marint of HarperCellin:Pubtshers 








Visit www-.warriorcats.com for the free Warriors app, games, Clan lore, and much more! 





Warrior Stories 
Download the separate ebook novellas or read them alll together in the paperback bind-up! 


TATADDINDCO 





Delve Deeper into the Clans 





HARPER 


An imanin of HarperColinsMumishert 





Visit www.warriorcats.com for the free Warriors app, games, Clan lore, and much more! 





Warrior Cats Come to Life in Manga! 








HARPER 


An manns OF Harper ColinnPubivhars 








Visit www.warriorcats.com for the free Warriors app, games, Clan lore, and much more! 

















SEENERS 
Be. 










KEN I SHENERS 


3 


Q Q Q 
Seekers: Return to the Wild 


The stakes are higher than ever as the bears 
search for a way home. 












www.survivorsdogs.com 
Q Also available unabridged from HasperChildrerisAndio HARPER 


An imanin of MarperColnsPublishers 





Credits 


Cover art © 2013 by Wayne McLoughlin 
Cover design by Megan Stitt 


Copyright 


Tallstar’s Revenge 
Copyright © 2013 by Working Partners Limited 
Series created by Working Partners Limited 
Manga text copyright © 2013 by Working Partners 
Limited 
Manga art copyright © 2013 by HarperCollins 
Publishers 
All rights reserved under International and Pan- 
American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the 
required fees, you have been granted the nonexclusive, 
nontransferable right to access and read the text of this 
e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be 
reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, 
reverse-engineered, or stored in or introduced into any 


information storage and retrieval system, in any form 
or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, 
now known or hereafter invented, without the express 
written permission of HarperCollins e-books. 
www.harpercollinschildrens.com 





ISBN 978-0-06-221804-9 (trade bdg.) 
ISBN 978-0-06-221805-6 (lib. bdg.) 
EPUB Edition APRIL 2013 ISBN 9780062218070 
Version 08152017 


S———————————€8§!C©1*°O83C°©1+1C1C1O Í 
13 14 15 16 17 CG/RRDH 1098765 4 3 


2, 
OG 
+ 


FIRST EDITION 


About the Publisher 


Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 
www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 
HarperCollins Canada 
2 Bloor Street East - 20th Floor 
Toronto, ON M4W 1A8, Canada 
www.harpercollins.ca 


New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 


Rosedale 0632 
Auckland, New Zealand 
www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
1 London Bridge Street 
London SE1 9GF, UK 
www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
195 Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 
www.harpercollins.com 


