

PROLOGUE 



Crowpaw pressed himself back into the 
crevice. He winced at the sharp points 
of rock jabbing into his fur; they told 
him the space was too shallow to 
shelter him. He let out a cry of terror 
as he gazed up at the looming head and 
shoulders of Sharptooth, the huge lion- 
cat. Sharptooth stooped over him, 
scraping at the rock with one paws 
massive talons. Moonlight filtering 
through the waterfall cast a glow on his 
face, showing Crowpaw lips drawn 
back in a cruel snarl, curved fangs, and 
jaws dripping with drool. Sharptooths 


rancid breath swept over Crowpaw, and 
his eyes glared down, savage with 
hunger. 

I can’t believe I’m going to die like 
this! Crowpaw thought desperately. Not 
after all we’ve been through! We’ve left 
our homes, traveled so far, and faced so 
many dangers. We met the badger 
Midnight and discovered a new destiny 
for our Clans. I want to be part of 
that... . I want to be part of our future! 
But now it’s over... . 

Crowpaw could hear the wailing of 
the Tribe cats and see skinny forms 
perched on ledges high above the cave 
floor in shades of gray and brown. His 
panicked gaze sought out Feathertail, 
and his heart warmed when he spotted 


her gray pelt. She was crouching beside 
her brother, Stormfur, on a ledge just 
under the roof. 

She is so beautiful! I don’t want to 
die before I have the chance to... . 

Then, somehow, above the terrified 
cries of the other cats and the snarling 
of | Sharptooth, |Crowpaw heard 
Feathertail. 

“I can hear the voices clearly 
now,” she meowed. “This is for me to 
do.” 

For a moment Crowpaw’s fear was 
banished by confusion. What voices? 

Silver flashed in the moonlight as 
Feathertail launched herself from the 
ledge, hurling herself at one of the 
pointed stones that hung down from the 


roof. For a few heartbeats she clung 
there, digging her claws into the rock. 

Crowpaw heard Stormfur  yowl, 
“No!” 

He watched in horror, forgetting his 
own danger, as the stone began to split 
away from the roof with a sickening 
crack. It couldn t support Feathertail’s 
weight and was about to collapse. 
“Feathertail!”’ he yowled. “No! Get 
down from there!” 

But it was impossible for 
Feathertail to escape. With a dull 
grinding noise, the stone broke away 
and plummeted down. Feathertail was 
still clinging to it, falling straight 
toward Sharptooth. Crowpaw could 
hardly bear to watch, yet he couldn't 


tear his gaze from the scene. 

The lion-cat looked up; his snarl 
changed to a scream of pain as the 
spike thrust its way into his neck. He 
fell to the ground, writhing in agony, as 
Feathertail tumbled from the spike, 
hitting the cave floor beside him. For a 
moment Crowpaw was frozen with 
shock as he gazed at the gentle she-cat. 
Her eyes were closed. Crowpaw 
couldnt tell whether she was 
breathing. Is she alive? 

Stormfur hurtled down the rock 
toward his sisters side. Beside them 
the lion-cat twitched for a few 
heartbeats, then gave a massive 
shudder and was still. 

Sharptooth was dead. 


“Feathertail?” Stormfur whispered. 

Crowpaw stumbled out of his 
crevice, still shaking, and crouched 
beside the two RiverClan cats. 
“Feathertail?” he rasped, hardly able 
to keep his voice steady. “Feathertail, 
are you okay?” 

Though  Feathertail did not 
respond, Crowpaw could now see the 
faint rise and fall of her chest. “Shes 
alive!” he mewed, his pads prickling 
with hope. 

“She'll be fine.” Stormfur s voice 
cracked, as if he didn’t believe what he 
was saying. “Shes got to be. She... 
she has a prophecy to fulfill.” 

But a terrible fear was growing 
inside Crowpaw. What if Feathertail just 


did fulfill the prophecy? It had spoken 
of a silver cat who would save them 
from a terrible lion-cat. Crowpaw had 
never imagined that it would actually 
come true—or that the silver cat would 
be Feathertail. But did that mean her 
story ended here? 

What if she never goes home to help 
lead her Clan to its new territory? 

He crept forward until his nose 
touched Feathertail s shoulder. 
Breathing deeply, he let her sweet scent 
flow through him, and gently began to 
lick her ruffled pelt. He thought about 
the future he had dreamed of, where 
they found a way to be together even 
though they were from different Clans. 
“Wake up, Feathertail,” he mewed. 


“Please wake up.” 

He let out a gasp as Feathertail’s 
eyes fluttered open. She looked warmly 
at Crowpaw, then turned her head 
slightly to look up at Stormfur. 

“You'll have to go home without 
me, brother,” she murmured. “Save the 
Clan!” 

“Feathertail,” he croaked through 
a painful lump in his throat. Then her 
head shifted again, her gaze focusing 
once more on Crowpaw. He trembled at 
the intense love he saw in her blue 
eyes. I don’t deserve her, he thought. I 
never deserved her. 

“Think you have nine lives, do 
you?” Feathertail whispered. “I saved 
you once... . Don’t make me save you 


3 


again.’ 

“Feathertail . . . Feathertail, no!” 
As she weakened before him, Crowpaw 
felt as if a huge weight were crushing 
his chest, so that he could hardly speak. 
“Don t leave me. ” 

“I won't.” The words were breathed 
out so faintly that Crowpaw could 
scarcely hear them. “TIL always be 
with you. I promise.” 

Then Feathertail’s eyes closed, and 
she did not move or speak again. 

Crowpaw turned to look at 
Sharptooth’s body, bloody and growing 
cold. Feathertail had killed the lion- 
cat, fulfilling the Tribes prophecy, but 
nothing about it felt right. What good 
was saving Crowpaw and the Tribe if 


Feathertail had to give her life to do 
it? He flung his head back and let out a 
wordless wail, which echoed off the 
cave walls, an outpouring of all his 
love and anguish. Then darkness 
swirled around him and he crouched 
beside Feathertail in a tight knot of 
grief. He felt as if all the light in the 
world had been snuffed out. How could 
he live with this loss? 

Voices drifted past him in the dark: 
He heard Stormfur, blaming himself for 
bringing Feathertail back to the Tribe. 
He turned his head to look up at the 
RiverClan cat. “Its my fault.” 
Crowpaw s voice was a hoarse whisper. 
“If I'd refused to come back to the 
cave, she would have stayed with me.” 


“No... ,” Stormfur said softly, 
reaching out to Crowpaw, who could 
only bow his head. 

He could hear Brook and 
Stoneteller trying to comfort Stormfur, 
but there would be no comfort for 
Crowpaw now—maybe not ever. 

“The Tribe of Endless Hunting 
spoke truly,” said Stoneteller. “A silver 
cat has saved us all.” 

Yes, thought Crowpaw, but no cat 
saved her, and now the Clans will never 
be the same. Never. The word echoed 
around Crowpaw until he felt his heart 
would break. We’ll never be mates or 
have kits together. Pll never see her 
again. Never... 


Crowfeather woke, shivering. His 
pelt was soaked with early-morning 
dew, but that wasn’t the reason for the 
chill that struck deep within him. It had 
been countless moons since Feathertail 
had died killing Sharptooth, but in his 
dream it had felt as if it were happening 
all over again. The pain of losing 
Feathertail felt like a fresh wound. 

I thought I would never love 
another cat, he thought. And yet now... 

He glanced down at the small tabby- 
and-white she-cat who was curled up 
beside him underneath the thornbush. His 
grief for Feathertail had consumed him, 
and it had taken him many moons to find 
the path that would lead him out of 
darkness. Now he could not understand 


how Leafpool had made her way into his 
heart, filling him with more joy than he 
had ever hoped to feel again. 

Like Feathertail, she was a cat from 
another Clan. But unlike Feathertail, 
Leafpool was a medicine cat, and had 
vowed never to take a mate. This made 
their love even more impossible than his 
first. J certainly know how to make 
things complicated, Crowfeather 
thought with a wry twitch of his 
whiskers. The only way he and Leafpool 
could be together was to make a huge 
sacrifice—to leave the Clans and 
everything they had ever known. 

But they had decided to take the risk. 
Amazingly, Crowfeather thought, 
watching Leafpool’s chest rise and fall, 


we could have had a future together. 

Leafpool had come with him 
willingly, heading out into unknown 
territory. But then, the night before, they 
had met the wise badger Midnight, who 
had told them that savage badgers were 
gathering to attack the Clans. The battle 
would be fierce and bloodstained; cats 
would die. Leafpool had said nothing 
about returning, and neither had he, but 
as he watched her sleeping form, 
Crowfeather knew what she would say 
to him when she woke. Her dedication 
and her loyalty to ThunderClan were 
part of why he loved her. 

And that meant their dream of being 
together would soon come to an end. 

“Oh, Leafpool,” he sighed aloud. “I 


would have taken care of you until my 
last breath.” 

As if his words had disturbed her, 
Leafpool awoke, leaping to her paws, 
her eyes wild and distraught. 
“Crowfeather!”” she gasped. “I can’t stay 
here. We have to go back.” She looked at 
him, her wide eyes full of regret. 

Crowfeather raised his head. “I 
know,” he mewed, sadness rising inside 
him like a flooding stream. “I feel the 
same way. We have to go and help our 
Clans.” 

He could see the relief in her eyes as 
she pressed her muzzle against his. He 
wished they could stay that way forever, 
but much too soon she let out a purr and 
meowed, “Let’s go.” 


As they trekked across the moorland 
toward home, though neither one of them 
said it, Crowfeather realized that he was 
losing another mate—not as terribly as 
he had lost Feathertail, but just as 
finally. Leafpool was choosing to return 
to her Clan because they needed her, 
needed their medicine cat, and that 
meant that Crowfeather’s only option 
was to reunite with WindClan. He 
imagined what it would feel like, 
walking back into a camp he’d never 
expected to see again. Everything would 
seem foreign to his eyes; he himself 
would feel like a stranger. 

If they'll even have me, he thought 
bitterly. They all know where I went, 
and why, and they’ll blame me for 


leaving. There’ll be questions about my 
loyalty, that’s for sure. 

“PII never forget what we shared,” 
Leafpool murmured as they approached 
the stepping stones that led across the 
stream into ThunderClan territory. There 
was grief in her face, but a set 
determination that was stronger. 

“Nor will I,” Crowfeather 
responded. Halting at the edge of the 
stream, he pressed himself against 
Leafpool’s side, and parted his jaws to 
taste her scent for the last time. PH miss 
her so much, he thought. Her softness, 
and her strength and courage. And how 
we could play together as if we were no 
older than kits again... . 

Leafpool pushed her nose into his 


shoulder fur. Her amber eyes were full 
of love for him. 

But its not enough. She doesn t love 
me enough. Her heart lies here, with 
her Clan. Shes so loyal... . I just wish 
that she could be as loyal to me. 

“Good-bye, Crowfeather,” Leafpool 
whispered. “Pll see you again when all 
this 1s over.” 

“What do you mean, ‘good-bye’?” 
Crowfeather made his voice harsh. 
Otherwise he would have started 
wailing like a lost kit. “I’m not leaving 
you when there are hostile badgers 
around.” 

“But you need to warn WindClan,” 
Leafpool protested. 

“I know, and I will. But Pll see you 


to your camp first. It won’t take long.” 

Leafpool didn’t argue with him. But 
as he followed her across the stepping 
stones and into the trees, Crowfeather 
knew that he was only prolonging their 
anguish. 

Thats it, he thought as he raced 
along. As Leafpool disappeared into the 
thick undergrowth, he knew that he 
would never be with her this way again. 
They would cross paths during 
Gatherings and other Clan business, but 
they’d have to keep their distance, as if 
they’d never loved each other at all. He 
couldn’t bear to imagine how much that 
would hurt. He couldn’t think of anything 
worse. If he was lucky, maybe a badger 
would tear him apart. 


If I do survive, he thought, I’m 
finished with love. It only ended in pain 
and loss, an ache in his belly as if he’d 
swallowed jagged stones. From now on, 
he vowed as he forced himself to follow 
Leafpool, PIL only worry about my duty 
to my Clan. No more love—not ever 
again. 





CHAPTER 1 
4 


~v 


Wind swept across the moor, ruffling 
Crowfeather’s gray-black fur as he stood 
among the rest of his Clanmates at the 
crest of the hill. They were gathered ina 
ragged circle around their Clan leader, 
Onestar, who stood beside a small pile 
of stones. Crowfeather remembered 
what hard work it had been to find the 
right number of smoothly rounded stones 
and push them up the slope to the place 
they had chosen. His paws still ached 
from the effort, and he raised one 
forepaw to lick a scrape on his pad. 
But it was worth it, to do this. 


“We will honor our Clanmates who 
fell in the Great Battle,’ Onestar 
meowed. “Each of these stones stands 
for a fallen warrior, so that we will 
never forget their sacrifice. From now 
on, a patrol will visit this place every 
day, to repeat the names of those who 
died and to give thanks.” 

Yes, Crowfeather thought. That way 
we'll never forget their courage. They 
saved us from the Dark Forest. 

The Clan leader paused for a 
heartbeat, then dipped his head toward 
the brown-and-white tom standing next 
to him. “As our new deputy, 
Harespring,” he continued, “you should 
put the last stone in place.” 

Crowfeather stiffened, making a 


conscious effort not to let his shoulder 
fur bristle as he watched Harespring 
thrust the final stone across the springy 
moorland grass and slide it neatly into 
the gap left for it. 

“This stone is for Ashfoot,” 
Harespring mewed solemnly. “She 
served her Clan well.” 

Crowfeather felt a fresh pang of grief 
for his dead mother, whose throat had 
been ripped out by the claws of a Dark 
Forest warrior, and realized that his pain 
was mingled with disappointment that he 
hadn’t been chosen as the Clan’s new 
deputy. He was aware of some of his 
Clanmates casting sidelong glances at 
him, as if they had expected it, too. After 
all, he was a senior warrior, and one of 


the chosen cats who had traveled to the 
sun-drown-place to meet with Midnight. 
Both my parents were deputies, he 
thought, and I’ve given up more for my 
Clan than any cat... but I suppose I 
never will be deputy. Well, Onestar 
wanted to send a message by choosing 
a Dark Forest cat, and however mouse- 
brained that message may be—it s sent. 

He suppressed a sigh, admitting to 
himself that this was a strange time for 
the Clans, as they tried to come together 
after the Great Battle, almost a moon 
ago. [ts like Kestrelflight trying to heal 
a wound just by slapping cobweb on it, 
without cleaning it out or using any 
herbs. 

Crowfeather narrowed his eyes as he 


gazed at his Clan leader. Onestar looked 
relaxed, content, his amber eyes 
gleaming—as if he truly believed that 
WindClan was united again. But 
Crowfeather knew it didn’t always work 
like that. And maybe that was another 
reason why he hadn’t been chosen. He 
was incapable of pretending that life 
could ever be that simple. 

When the last stone was in position, 
Kestrelflight, the WindClan medicine 
cat, padded up to stand beside the pile, 
looking out over the horizon. The wind 
ruffled his mottled gray pelt, but his 
voice rang out clearly across the moor. 
“We feel the loss of all our dead 
Clanmates, but we know that they have 
been made welcome in StarClan. May 


they have good hunting, swift running, 
and shelter when they sleep.” 

He dipped his head in deepest 
respect, then moved back into the crowd 
of his Clanmates. A ripple of agreement 
passed through the Clan, voices hushed 
with the solemnity of the moment. 

Onestar began to speak again, but it 
was hard for Crowfeather to concentrate 
when he spotted his son Breezepelt 
hovering on the fringe, his expression 
angry and uncomfortable. Like he 
always looks, Crowfeather thought 
bitterly. His mind drifted inexorably 
back to the Great Battle, especially how 
he’d had to sink his claws into 
Breezepelt’s shoulders and haul him 
back to keep him from killing his half 


brother Lionblaze. 

He knew that Onestar had forgiven 
Breezepelt, as well as all the other cats 
who had trained in the Dark Forest. They 
had each taken a new oath of loyalty to 
WindClan. But Crowfeather knew that 
the rest of the Clan wasn’t as eager to 
forgive as their Clan leader, and the cat 
they were finding it hardest to forgive 
was Breezepelt. Even now he could see 
suspicious looks directed toward his son 
and knew that he would hear whispers 
once they had returned to camp. 

All the other Dark Forest warriors 
had come to their senses and fought 
beside their Clan—all except 
Breezepelt. He had actually stood with 
the Dark Forest; he had fought on their 


side. 

It would be many moons before that 
was forgotten. 

As Crowfeather watched his son, 
Breezepelt turned his head, and for a 
heartbeat their gazes locked. 
Breezepelt’s gaze was dark with anger 
and confusion. Then Crowfeather 
glanced away, not wanting Breezepelt to 
see the mixture of guilt and disgust he 
could feel in his eyes. 

How did I fail so badly as a father? 
How did I raise a flea-brain who grew 
up to become a traitor to WindClan? 
He’s as much use as a dead fox. 

Onestar drew his speech to an end, 
and with the ceremony over, the Clan 
began breaking up into smaller groups, 


making their way down the hill toward 
the camp. Crowfeather noticed that the 
other Dark Forest cats—Harespring, 
Larkwing, Furzepelt, and Whiskernose 
—were heading down together, as if they 
still felt that they didn’t belong with the 
rest of their Clanmates. 

I was afraid of that, Crowfeather 
thought. Onestar had made Larkwing a 
warrior because of her bravery in the 
Great Battle, and given the injuries 
Whiskernose had suffered in that same 
battle, Onestar had let him retire with 
honor to the elders’ den. And Harespring 
was the new deputy. But none of that 
mattered if the rest of their Clan 
wouldn’t accept them. Why cant 
Onestar see that? Does he have bees in 


his brain? 

Crowfeather made his way back 
alone, padding along just behind a 
cluster of his Clanmates. 

“I cant believe it! Gorsetail 
exclaimed. “Onestar tells us all to 
remember the fallen warriors, but he’s 
fine with the traitors who killed them 
staying in the Clan.” 

“Hey, that’s not fair,’ Crouchfoot 
protested, his ginger pelt bristling as the 
new warrior turned to his former mentor. 
“WindClan cats didn’t kill their 
Clanmates. Most of the cats who trained 
with the Dark Forest turned against them 
when they found out what was really 
going on.” 

“Most,” Leaftail repeated with a 


lash of his tabby tail. “Not all.” 

Moving as one, the cats turned to 
stare at Breezepelt, who was padding 
past them with Heathertail at his side. 

“I know what you mean,” murmured 
Gorsetail. “It doesn’t seem right that 
Breezepelt is still here. I know Onestar 
thinks he isn’t a traitor because he didn’t 
try to kill a WindClan cat, but isn’t 
fighting on the side of the Dark Forest 
just as bad? How can we ever trust him 
again?” 

“I never will,” Leaftail asserted 
confidently. 

“The Clan would almost be better 
off if something happened to 
Breezepelt,” Gorsetail meowed. “Like a 
badger took care of him or something.” 


Crowfeather couldn’t suppress a 
gasp of shock. Great StarClan, are they 
featherbrained? He wasn’t sure that he 
trusted Breezepelt, but he couldn’t 
believe he had heard a cat wishing death 
upon a warrior from her own Clan. 

The four gossiping cats halted, 
turning to look at him with expressions 
of horror on their faces. Clearly they’d 
had no idea that he could overhear what 
they were saying. 

“Uh... Crowfeather ... ,” Gorsetail 
began. 

Crowfeather ignored her, not in the 
mood to give them the rebuke they were 
obviously expecting. J dont give a 
mousetail what these flea-brains 
think . . . they dont deserve the effort it 


would take to insult them. Instead he 
stalked past them with his head down, 
making for the camp. His pelt grew hot 
with anger as he felt the gazes of his 
Clanmates piercing him like wasp stings. 
It was horrible to hear them talking 
about his son like that. But the worst of it 
was... he couldn’t disagree with them. 


Back in camp, Crowfeather looked 
for his apprentice, Featherpaw, and 
found her near the fresh-kill pile, sharing 
a vole with Slightpaw and Hootpaw. He 
noticed with approval how she kept her 
gray tabby pelt neatly groomed, and her 
alert look as she spotted him 
approaching. He jerked his head to 
summon her. 


“Come on. We’re going hunting.” 

Featherpaw hastily swallowed the 
last mouthful of prey and swiped her 
tongue around her jaws. Then she stood 
up. “Great! Hootpaw and Slightpaw are 
going out, too. Can we all hunt 
together?” 

Crowfeather was about to refuse 
when Harespring, Slightpaw’s mentor, 
strolled up to join them. Hootpaw’s 
mentor, Nightcloud, was walking just 
behind him. 

“That’s a great idea,” Harespring 
mewed warmly. “The more hunting 
styles the apprentices get to see, the 
better.” 

Crowfeather groaned inwardly. The 
last cats he wanted to spend time with 


were the new deputy and Nightcloud, 
who was his former mate and the mother 
of his WindClan son. 7 should never 
have mated with her, he thought. /t was 
a mouse-hearted attempt to make a 
family in my own Clan. He had been 
angry and bitter over losing Leafpool. 
He’d never loved Nightcloud, and she’d 
never forgiven him for it. 

Nightcloud didn’t look too pleased 
about this idea, either, but the three 
apprentices were exchanging delighted 
glances at the thought of training 
together. Crowfeather didn’t feel he had 
much choice; besides, he didn’t want to 
disappoint Featherpaw. 

“Okay,” he muttered. 

“Onestar wants us to go and hunt 


down near the ThunderClan border,” 
Harespring announced, gathering the 
patrol together with a sweep of his tail. 
“There have been reports of weird 
scents in that area, and for some reason 
prey is scarce.” 

Crowfeather nodded. “Good idea. I 
tried hunting over there the other day and 
came back empty-pawed.” 

Harespring took the lead as the 
patrol left the camp and headed downhill 
toward the border with ThunderClan. 
The apprentices scampered along 
together, jostling one another and 
boasting about how much prey they were 
going to catch. 

The chilly wind had faded to a faint 
breeze, and wide patches of pale blue 


sky showed between the clouds. 
Crowfeather sniffed the air and picked 
up the scent of rabbit. 

‘ve got a good feeling about 
today,” Harespring announced. “I think 
the prey will be running well.” He 
sounded cheerful, though Crowfeather 
thought he had to be aware of the tension 
between him and Nightcloud, who was 
stalking along beside Hootpaw as if she 
was trying to pretend Crowfeather 
wasn’t there. 

Whats her problem? Well, I’m not 
going to beg for her attention, if that’s 
what she expects. 

The deputy had hardly finished 
speaking when a rabbit started up 
unexpectedly from a tussock of long 


grass and fled across the moor. 
Nightcloud raced after it; Crowfeather 
could not help admiring her strong, 
graceful bounds and the way her muscles 
rippled under her black pelt. 

But she’s not my mate anymore, and 
thats just fine by me. Life is easier 
now. 

Suppressing a snort of annoyance, he 
turned to  Featherpaw. “Watch 
Nightcloud,” he instructed her. “See how 
quickly she reacted? And when the 
rabbit changes direction, she doesn’t 
lose a step. Why is that?” 

Featherpaw’s head tilted as she 
searched for the answer. After a moment 
she looked back at him with wide, 
questioning eyes. “I don’t know .. .” 


“Because a good hunter is always 
thinking,’ Crowfeather told her. 
“Always alert to a prey’s best route of 
escape. You can’t just follow it. You 
have to work out where it’s going to run. 
That’s what Nightcloud is doing now.” 

Featherpaw nodded, her gaze fixed 
on the black she-cat. “She’s great!” 

As she spoke, the rabbit vanished 
behind an outcrop of rocks, with 
Nightcloud hard on its paws. A shrill 
squeal of terror was abruptly cut off, and 
a moment later Nightcloud emerged from 
the rocks with the limp body of the 
rabbit dangling from her jaws. 

“She got it!” Hootpaw exclaimed. 

“Brilliant catch!” Harespring 
meowed heartily as Nightcloud padded 


back to the rest of the patrol. 

“Yeah, good job,” Crowfeather 
added when her eyes briefly met his. 

Nightcloud swiftly looked away 
from him. “Thanks, Harespring,” she 
mewed. 

Crowfeather swallowed a rumble of 
annoyance, not wanting to look angry in 
front of the apprentices. How petty! She 
can t even accept my praise. 

When Nightcloud had finished 
scraping earth over her rabbit to collect 
it later, the patrol continued farther down 
the hill. Crowfeather was the first to 
spot the black-tipped ears of a hare 
poking up from where the creature was 
crouching in a shallow dip in the ground. 

“Who can tell me what the problem 


is here?” WHarespring asked the 
apprentices in a low voice. 

Featherpaw waved her tail excitedly 
but had the sense to speak in a quiet 
murmur as she answered. “The breeze is 
blowing from us to the hare.” 

“Right,” Harespring mewed, while 
Crowfeather felt proud that his 
apprentice had spoken first. “So it’s 
going to scent us long before we can get 
up close enough to pounce. What do you 
think we should do about that?” 

This time it was Hootpaw who 
replied. “Move around so we’re in a 
better place?” 

“Good,” Harespring praised him. 
“And this is one of the times when it can 
be better to hunt in a team, rather than 


alone. Crowfeather, I’m going to work 
my way around until I’m on the far side 
of the hare. When I give the signal, I 
want you to chase the hare over to me.” 

Crowfeather nodded, thinking that if 
he had been leading the patrol, he would 
have given that task to one of the 
apprentices. But I must be mouse- 
brained, because Haresprings the 
deputy. What do I know? “Okay.” 

Harespring set off at once, creeping 
along with his belly fur brushing the 
ground, taking advantage of every scrap 
of cover. Crowfeather could barely 
make out his brown-and-white pelt 
among the tussocks of wiry grass. The 
apprentices watched, their claws flexing 
in anticipation. 


But before Harespring was in 
position, a stronger puff of wind passed 
over the ground. The hare’s head lifted 
from its cover, its nose twitching. 

Then it sprang, fleeing back up the 
hill, forcing itself along with powerful 
strokes of its hind legs. Harespring rose 
to his paws, his tail lashing in 
frustration. “Fox dung!” he exclaimed. 

Crowfeather hurled himself after the 
hare, quickly noticing that a black shape 
was streaking alongside him. 
Nightcloud. 

“PII try to overtake it,” she gasped. 
“Drive it back to you.” 

She put on an extra burst of speed, 
flashing past the hare and turning to 
confront it with teeth bared and claws 


extended. The hare almost tripped over 
its paws as it doubled back, skidding 
downhill. Crowfeather bunched his hind 
legs, launching into a leap, then landed 
on top of it and sank his fangs into its 
throat. 

Once the hare was dead, 
Crowfeather stood back, panting, and 
waited for Nightcloud to rejoin him. He 
wanted to share the triumph of a 
successful kill, just as he would with any 
of his Clanmates, but Nightcloud padded 
past him toward the others as if she were 
hardly aware that he existed. Who made 
dirt in her fresh-kill? Crowfeather gave 
a shrug, picked up the hare, and 
followed her. If that was how she 
wanted things to be between them, he 


was not going to give her the satisfaction 
of showing her that he cared. 

“Wow, its huge!” Slightpaw 
exclaimed as Crowfeather dropped his 
prey at Harespring’s paws. 

Crowfeather gave the deputy a nod. 
“Like you said, teamwork,” he mewed 
dryly. 

Harespring looked slightly 
discomfited. “Let’s go farther down,” he 
suggested. “We might find some smaller 
prey nearer the stream, and the 
apprentices can have a try.” 

“That will take us past the place 
Onestar asked us to check out, too,” 
Nightcloud added. 

When they had buried the prey, 
Harespring took the lead again, making 


for the stretch of woodland on the 
WindClan side of the border stream. 
Before they reached the trees, the deputy 
drew to a halt at the edge of a gorse 
thicket that straggled over the hillside. 
At the foot of the slope a stretch of flat 
ground led to a steep bank riddled with 
holes. 

“Onestar thinks there’s something 
odd going on here,” he meowed. “Let’s 
see if we can find out what it is.” 

Hootpaw’s tail shot straight up into 
the air. “Are we going to explore the 
tunnels?” he asked. “Cool!” 

“You arent going to explore 
anywhere,” Nightcloud informed him 
sternly, flicking his shoulder with her 
tail. “All the apprentices, keep back.” 


“We never get to do anything,” 
Hootpaw grumbled, his tail drooping. 

“If you're not careful, you'll get to 
do the elders’ ticks,” his mentor warned 
him. “Now, let’s all see what we can 
scent.” 

Crowfeather opened his jaws to taste 
the air, and at once an unfamiliar scent 
trickled past them. “Can you smell that?” 
he asked. 

“Weird... ,” Harespring murmured. 
“I feel like I should recognize it, but. . . 
I’m not sure.” 

“It might be coming from the 
tunnels,” Nightcloud pointed out. 

Crowfeather turned a slow circle, 
looking about them. The tunnels that 
gaped in the bank stretched for countless 


fox-lengths underneath the territory, 
joining WindClan to ThunderClan. The 
nearest hole in the side of the steep bank 
gaped open only a few tail-lengths away. 
It was quite possible that some kind of 
animal had made its den inside there. 

“There’s nowhere else it can be 
coming from,” he responded to 
Nightcloud. “Maybe we ought to take a 
look.” 

Even though Crowfeather had made 
the suggestion, his pelt prickled with 
apprehension at the thought of padding 
down into the darkness under the earth. 
So few cats used the tunnels now that he 
had no idea what condition they were in 
these days. “Featherpaw, you were told 
to stay back,” he added, as his 


apprentice craned her neck to peer into 
the gaping hole. 

Harespring paused thoughtfully, jaws 
open, then shook his head. “The scent is 
pretty stale,” he meowed. “Whatever left 
it might be long gone.” 

Or maybe they’re just camped out 
very deep inside the tunnel. 
Crowfeather didn’t speak this thought 
aloud, though. The Clan’s new deputy 
had obviously decided not to investigate, 
and Crowfeather admitted to himself that 
he was relieved to stay out in the open 
air. 

“So are we hunting or not?” 
Nightcloud asked irritably. 

“Sure we are,’ Harespring 
responded. “Why don’t we see what we 


can find around here? If the scent is 
stale, the prey might be coming back.” 

“Good luck with that,’ Nightcloud 
muttered. “It’s been scarce on this side 
of the territory since just after the Great 
Battle.” 

Harespring shrugged. “We can still 
give it a try. And we may find out 


something useful.” 
The three warriors split up, each 
taking their own apprentice. 


Crowfeather caught no prey-scents on 
the ground, and only faint traces in the 
air, but eventually he spotted a sparrow 
perched on a jutting spike of rock. 
Perfect for an apprentice’s practice. 

Just as he was beginning to advise 
Featherpaw on how to pounce on it, a 


loud yowl split the air from farther along 
the bank. 

“Great StarClan!” he exclaimed. 
“What’s that?” 

He whipped around and raced 
alongside the bank toward Hootpaw, 
who was standing rigid, his gaze fixed 
on another of the dark tunnel entrances. 
His fur was so bushed up, he looked 
twice his size. 

Crowfeather’s pelt prickled with 
apprehension as he wondered what 
could have spooked the apprentice like 
that. Hootpaw wasn’t easily frightened; 
he was usually a bold and adventurous 
young cat. 

“Hang on, I’m coming!” Crowfeather 
called out as he charged up, half 


expecting to see a fox or a badger 
emerging from the tunnel. Except that 
wasn t fox or badger scent. 

As Crowfeather halted beside 
Hootpaw, he thought that he spotted 
something white and shining at the mouth 
of the tunnel, whisking out of sight into 
the blackness. 

That looked like a tail... , he 
thought. Or am I seeing things? 

Featherpaw joined him, panting, 
while Nightcloud hurried up with a vole 
in her jaws. Harespring and Slightpaw 
ran up shortly after. 

“What happened?”  Nightcloud 
asked, dropping her prey. “Hootpaw, tell 
me you didn’t go into the tunnel, after 
what I told you!” 


“I didn’t!” Hootpaw protested. “But 
I... Isaw something in there. An animal 
I’ve never seen before, like a glowing, 
pure white cat! It looked right at me, like 
it wanted to tell me something.” 

“Oh, for StarClan’s sake, don’t be so 
mouse-brained,” Nightcloud snapped. 
“There’s no such thing as glowing white 
cats—only StarClan, and they glitter like 
stars. Honestly, you made such a noise, I 
thought a badger must be ripping your fur 
off!” 

“I know what I saw,” Hootpaw 
mewed stubbornly. “I’ve never seen 
anything like it. It was scary!” 

Harespring looked thoughtful. 
“Smoky from the horseplace told me 
once that kittypets sometimes came back 


after they died, all shining white, to visit 
their Twolegs. He said he’d seen ghosts 
with his own eyes.” 

“That’s the most flea-brained thing 
Pve ever heard!” Crowfeather 
exclaimed, glaring at Harespring. It was 
bad enough that Hootpaw was scared out 
of his fur. They didn’t need Harespring 
encouraging him. “Maybe _ kittypets 
believe that, but they don’t even 
commune with StarClan.” Harespring 
returned his glare for a moment but 
finally looked away as if he was 
embarrassed. He should be, 
Crowfeather thought, annoyed. This is 
who Onestar chose over me? A warrior 
who can barely catch a rabbit and now 
believes in ghosts? Some deputy. 


“I saw a glowing white cat,” 
Hootpaw insisted. His fur was lying flat 
again, but his eyes were still wide and 
frightened, and Crowfeather could see 
that Featherpaw and Slightpaw were 
beginning to look apprehensive as well, 
casting nervous glances at the tunnel 
entrance as if, at any moment, whatever 
the apprentice had seen was going to 
come charging out of the shadows. 

Crowfeather knew it was nonsense, 
but all the same, something was niggling 
at the back of his mind. If there were 
ghost cats, he thought, this would be the 
right time for them to show up. We lost 
so many of our Clanmates in the Great 
Battle. But he quickly dismissed the 
thought. Clearly, he was letting the 


apprentices—and their mouse-brained 
deputy—get to him. There had to be a 
perfectly reasonable explanation for 
whatever Hootpaw had seen, but now 
wasn’t the time to find it. 

“I think we’ve done enough hunting 
for one day,” he meowed decisively. 
“Let’s carry our prey back to camp.” 

Harespring opened his mouth as if to 
argue, but he quickly snapped it shut and 
nodded his head. Crowfeather knew the 
deputy was probably irritated that he 
was calling the shots, but since he was 
eager to leave the area, he went along 
with him. Without any further discussion, 
the patrol set off, collecting their prey as 
they went. The deputy loaded up the 
apprentices and sent them on ahead, 


while he padded along behind with 
Crowfeather and Nightcloud. 
Crowfeather couldn’t help noticing how 
subdued the apprentices seemed now, so 
different from their earlier playfulness. 

“I have no idea what got into 
Hootpaw.” Nightcloud still sounded 
cross. “He’s usually so sensible.” 

“I know,” Harespring responded. 
“Thats why I believe him.” At 
Nightcloud’s annoyed expression, he 
continued. “Look, Pm not saying they 
were glowing white cats, but he must 
have seen something.” 

“He did,” Crowfeather mewed 
thoughtfully. “I know because I saw 
something, too.” 

“Oh, really, you ‘saw something’?” 


Nightcloud turned an incredulous gaze 
on him. “Not a glowing white cat, by any 
chance?” 

“No.” Featherbrain. Crowfeather 
swallowed his anger, not wanting to get 
into an argument with Nightcloud. “But 
something white . . . like maybe a tail 
vanishing down the tunnel. There could 
have been another animal there.” 

“But there aren’t any white animals 
on the moor,” Harespring objected. 
“Still... perhaps we should report it to 
Onestar.” 

“What can he do about it?” 
Nightcloud asked. 

“Pm not sure,” Harespring replied. 
“But we were told to check out this area, 
and that’s what we’ve found. Besides, 


suppose this is the start of some kind of 
trouble, and we didnt report it. The 
Clan would be unprepared, and if 
anything terrible were to happen, it 
would be our fault. Onestar needs to 
know what’s going on in his own 
territory.” 

Crowfeather was surprised to find 
himself murmuring in agreement. 
Harespring might not have been the 
deputy he would have chosen, but he had 
to admit that everything he’d just said 
was true. He gave Harespring a 
sideways glance. Maybe the tom wasn’t 
the worst deputy Onestar could have 
appointed after all. 

Crowfeather picked up his pace until 
he caught up with the apprentices. 


Featherpaw was trudging along, carrying 
the rabbit Nightcloud had caught earlier; 
as she glanced up at Crowfeather, he 
could see the worry in her eyes. 

“Tt ll be okay, you know,” 
Crowfeather reassured her. “If there is 
anything in the tunnels, Onestar will help 
us figure out what to do about it.” 

Featherpaw blinked at him “I 
know,” she mumbled around her prey. “I 
just wish we could be sure what 
Hootpaw saw.” 

“We will be soon,” Crowfeather 
responded. “And then, whatever it is, 
WindClan will deal with the problem.” 

Featherpaw’s tail shot up in the air 
and her gaze cleared. “Yeah! WindClan 
can deal with anything.” 


Crowfeather gave her an approving 
nod, reflecting on what a bright young 
cat she was. She would make a great 
warrior. He imagined how proud he 
would be if he were her father. But the 
thought made his gut twist, and he 
suddenly felt guilty, thinking of 
Breezepelt, and how he had a better 
relationship with his apprentice than his 
son. 


Returning to the camp, Crowfeather 
spotted Onestar outside his den, 
stretched out in the pale sun of leaf-bare. 
He sat up alertly as Harespring led his 
patrol across the camp toward him. “Did 
you find anything down there?” he asked. 

Harespring began to explain about 


the weird scent they had picked up near 
the tunnels, and how Hootpaw—and 
maybe Crowfeather—had seen 
something at one of the entrances. 

“Tt was a ghost!” Hootpaw 
interrupted. “A shining white ghost cat!” 

Onestar looked befuddled. “A 
ghost?” he echoed, twitching his 
whiskers in confusion. 

Harespring explained what he had 
learned from Smoky at the horseplace 
about how he claimed he’d seen dead 
kittypets returning as shining white 
“ghosts.” Crowfeather could see that 
Onestar was listening carefully, but also 
that he didn’t believe a word of it. 

“I can see you were all very brave,” 
the Clan leader told the apprentices 


when Harespring had finished. “But I 
don’t think there’s any such thing as a 
‘ghost cat.’ Only StarClan. What you 
saw must have been a trick of the light, 
or your imagination.” 

Hootpaw still looked mutinous, but 
he had enough sense not to argue with 
his Clan leader. 

“It’s that weird scent that’s bothering 
me,” Onestar went on. “It seems like 
there must be something around the 
tunnels, and I don’t like the sound of that. 
I think we should organize another patrol 
to take a look inside and check it out.” 

“PII take one now, if you like,” 
Harespring offered. 

Onestar shook his head. “The sun 
will have gone down before you get 


there,” he responded. “It will have to be 
tomorrow. I expect some kind of animal 
has made its home in the tunnels,” he 
continued. “It wouldn’t be the first time 
that has happened, especially in the cold 
of leaf-bare. But if there is something 
living there, we need to drive it out. 
Those tunnels are ours.” Looking down 
reassuringly at the apprentices, he 
added, “Hootpaw, you did well to spot 
potential danger, but I don’t want any of 
you to go spreading wild stories around 
the camp. I want every cat to keep calm. 
There’s really nothing to worry about.” 
Crowfeather was impressed by his 
leader’s authority and the way he 
comforted the apprentices, though he 
doubted that Hootpaw would be able to 


keep his mouth shut about what he had 
seen. Once the first shock was over, he 
would be too excited to keep quiet. And 
too fuzz-brained. 

“Okay,” Onestar meowed, “go and 
get yourselves something to eat. No, not 
you, Crowfeather,” he added, as the 
patrol began to move away. “I want a 
word with you.” 

Crowfeather halted. What now? he 
wondered. 

Onestar waited until the rest of the 
patrol was gone. “Tell me again what 
you saw. Give me as much detail as you 
can.” 

“I ran up to the tunnel entrance when 
I heard Hootpaw yowl,” Crowfeather 
explained. “And I caught a glimpse of 


something white disappearing into the 
darkness. I thought it looked like a tail, 
but I can’t be sure. Maybe it was as you 
said—yust a trick of the light . . . or my 
imagination making me see danger.” 

Onestar listened intently, saying 
nothing until Crowfeather had finished. 
Then he shook his head sadly. “If there 
were a time for WindClan cats to be 
seeing ghosts, it would be now,” he 
mewed, echoing Crowfeather’s earlier 
thought. “We lost so many Clanmates in 
the Great Battle.” 

Crowfeather nodded, his throat 
suddenly dry. It hurt to think of all the 
cats they would never see again. 

“The loss of Ashfoot must weigh 
heavily on you,” Onestar went on, his 


eyes full of sympathy. “I know you miss 
her every day.” 

Crowfeather met Onestar’s gaze, 
surprised to hear the leader mention his 
mother. Even the sound of her name 
made his chest tighten with sorrow. 
Talking about his grief for his mother 
was still too painful. He had to struggle 
to respond without breaking down. “Yes, 
it has been. . . difficult,” Crowfeather 
admitted finally, almost having to push 
the words out of his mouth. 

“Perhaps you can find comfort in the 
rest of your family,” Onestar suggested. 
“Nightcloud and Breezepelt.” 

Crowfeather felt his muscles tense 
and said nothing. Does he have bees in 
his brain? Onestar knows very well 


theres no comfort for me there. 

“But that’s just it, isn’t it?” Onestar 
went on. “Breezepelt tells me you 
haven’t so much as looked in his 
direction since the Great Battle. Is that 
true?” 

Fury began to build up in 
Crowfeather’s belly. J don’t want to talk 
about this! “I suppose so,” he muttered. 

“Then tell me why,” Onestar 
persisted. “I’ve made it clear, as Clan 
leader, that /’ve forgiven Breezepelt for 
his part in the battle. And he has sworn a 
new oath of loyalty to WindClan. So 
why, as Breezepelt’s father, do you 
refuse to accept that?” 

“I know that what you say is true,” 
Crowfeather replied, struggling not to 


unleash his pent-up frustrations on his 
Clan leader. “But . . . well, you know 
that I caught Breezepelt about to kill 
Lionblaze.” 

“Lionblaze may be your son, but he 
is a ThunderClan cat,” Onestar 
responded in a level voice. “Breezepelt 
is a WindClan cat. It seems clear to me 
where your loyalty should lie.” 

Crowfeather drew his lips back in 
the beginning of a snarl, but he could 
find nothing to say in answer to his 
leader’s arguments. He knew that what 
Onestar said made sense. He just found 
it hard to pretend that his time with 
Leafpool, and the kits they'd had 
together as a result, meant nothing to 
him. 


But no cat would understand that 
but me. 

For a few heartbeats, Onestar was 
silent. “Crowfeather,” he began again at 
last, “are you aware that many cats 
thought I would choose you as my deputy 
after Ashfoot’s death?” 

Now Crowfeather felt even more 
uncomfortable. Whatever other cats had 
thought, the choice of a deputy was for 
the Clan leader to decide, and 
Crowfeather had never thought of 
objecting to Onestar’s choice of 
Harespring. Even if he did think it was 
mouse-brained. 

“Yes, I knew that,” he admitted. “But 


99 


“Do you know why I made the 


choice that I did?” 

Crowfeather took a deep, calming 
breath, wishing he could see the point of 
these questions. Because you’re mouse- 
brained? “I suppose that by choosing 
Harespring, you were sending a message 
that the Dark Forest cats can be trusted.” 

“That’s true,” Onestar agreed. “But 
there is also a reason that I didn t choose 
you.” 

Crowfeather’s ears pricked in 
surprise. “There is?” 

“Yes,” Onestar meowed sternly. 
“Because you care about your own anger 
and prejudices more than you care about 
WindClan.” 

“That’s not true!” Is it? 

“Wouldnt you have accepted 


Breezepelt if it weren’t?” Onestar 
challenged him. “He is your Clanmate, 
not to mention your own son. Accepting 
him would clearly be the best thing for 
your Clan.” 

Crowfeather had no answer to this. 
He felt his whiskers twitch with 
irritation as he looked away. 

“I am your leader,” Onestar went on, 
“and I have said we will trust him. But 
you choose not to follow my lead. 
Instead of trusting your own son, you 
cling to your anger and disappointment.” 

Crowfeather was silent, his claws 
flexing in and out as he struggled to calm 
himself. Part of him felt as if he should 
leap onto Onestar and rake his claws 
through his leader’s tabby fur. But he 


knew that attacking his leader would be 
crazy. If he lifted a claw to Onestar, he 
would be driven out of WindClan 
forever. Even thinking about doing it 
surprised and confused him. Why was he 
so angry all the time? 

“I expect more from you, 
Crowfeather,” Onestar continued. “You 
are a brave and talented warrior. But 
you need to get to the bottom of your 
own problems and become a true 
WindClan warrior once again.” 

“Do you know what I’ve given up to 
be loyal to WindClan?” Crowfeather 
demanded, his anger spilling over at 
last. “Tve sacrificed so much, and you 
don’t give a mousetail about that!” Yet 
even as he said these words, guilt began 


to seep into his mind. There had been a 
time when he would have left WindClan 
to be with Leafpool; it was her decision 
that had led them back to the hunting 
grounds by the lake. From the way 
Onestar was looking at him, 
Crowfeather could tell that he suspected 
as much. 

Onestar inclined his head. “I do 
know what you have sacrificed—or 
what you think you have,” he meowed. 
“But if you were sincerely a WindClan 
cat above all else, you wouldn’t have 
gotten yourself into that situation. And 
once you had, you would have accepted 
why it needed to end. You would not 
still be bitter about it.” 

Full of rage and confusion, 


Crowfeather let his claws slide out and 
dig hard into the ground; he felt as if his 
blood were bubbling and his fur 
prickling. He didn’t know how to 
respond. 

“You can go now,” Onestar told him 
with a dismissive wave of his tail. 
“Tonight, Kestrelflight will go to the 
half-moon meeting,” he added. “Perhaps 
StarClan will give him some guidance. 
And tomorrow I will send another patrol 
to see if we can find out what’s going on 
in the tunnels.” 

Crowfeather waited until his fur had 
stopped prickling. Then he dipped his 
head respectfully to his Clan leader and 
stalked away. As he headed for the 
fresh-kill pile, he spotted Nightcloud 


and Breezepelt talking together. They 
broke off and raised their heads to watch 
him as he padded past, their eyes 
narrowed mistrustfully. Crowfeather 
thought of what Onestar had just said, 
about letting his anger go. 

But I’m not ready to do that. Not 
yet. 

Even more annoyed, Crowfeather 
seized a thrush from the pile and carried 
it away to the edge of the camp, far away 
from any other cat. He ate alone, in 
swift, angry bites. 

I’ve given everything to my Clan, he 
thought resentfully. What more does 
Onestar want from me? 





CHAPTER 2 
4 


~v 


Crowfeather chased a rabbit across the 
moor, reveling in the feeling of cold 
wind flowing through his fur, and the 
strength of his own muscles as they 
bunched and stretched to propel him 
effortlessly after his prey. He raced 
along so fast it felt as if his paws hardly 
touched the tough moorland grass. 

A hole in a bank loomed up ahead, 
the entrance to one of the tunnels. The 
rabbit plunged into it, and without 
hesitating Crowfeather followed. He 
chased the rabbit down tunnels that 
twisted far more than he remembered, 


growing narrower and narrower until he 
could feel his fur brushing both sides in 
the blackness. 

At last Crowfeather halted, his 
flanks heaving. He couldn’t scent the 
rabbit anymore, or hear the scrabble of 
its paws on the stone floor of the tunnel. 
Damp cold struck up through his pads, 
and he realized with the first stirring of 
panic that the passage was too narrow 
for him to turn around. He had no idea 
where he was. 

Slowly now, Crowfeather began to 
pad forward, his heart pounding as he 
felt water flowing around his paws, 
growing deeper as he struggled onward. 

Cats have drowned down here, he 
thought. 


His belly fur was brushing the water 
when he spotted a feeble, flickering light 
ahead of him. Hoping he had found a 
way out, he waded on more rapidly, until 
he came to a place where the tunnel wall 
was scooped out at one side to form a 
kind of den. Crowfeather’s jaws 
dropped open with shock and disbelief 
as he recognized the cat who was sitting 
there. 

“Ashfoot!” he choked out. 

His mother sat with her head erect 
and her tail wrapped around her paws. 
Crowfeather couldn’t tell where the pale 
light was coming from. It seemed to 
radiate from Ashfoot, yet she didn’t have 
the frosty glitter to her fur that was the 
mark of a StarClan cat. 


As Ashfoot spotted her son, she 
stood up and fled down the tunnel, her 
paws seeming to skim the surface of the 
water. 

“Wait!” Crowfeather  yowled, 
splashing clumsily after her. “Don’t 
leave me! Ashfoot!” 

But she was gone, and the light gone 
with her. Crowfeather was alone in the 
darkness, with water lapping around his 
shoulders. “Ashfoot, why are you here?” 
he asked, as if his mother could still hear 
him. “Why are you not in StarClan?” 

No answer came back, only 
Ashfoot’s voice raised in a screech that 
echoed around the tunnel like a roll of 
thunder. Terror shook Crowfeather from 
ears to tail-tip, and he startled awake to 


find himself in the warriors’ den under 
the stars. He lay panting and trembling 
as his horrific vision receded. 

What was that? Just a dream? Or 
was what Hootpaw saw in the tunnel 
entrance truly a ghost . . . the ghost of 
Ashfoot? Is she trying to send me a 
message? As soon as the idea occurred 
to Crowfeather, he gave his head an 
angry shake, annoyed with himself for 
thinking something so mouse-brained. 
But he couldn’t let go of the idea. 7f 
Ashfoot was trying to tell me 
something, what could it be? 

Once more, Crowfeather tried to 
shrug off the feeling, telling himself not 
to be a fool. In his dream, Ashfoot’s fur 
had been gray, just as it was when she 


was alive, not the shining white 
Hootpaw had described, and that he had 
glimpsed for himself at the tunnel. 

Besides, it cant be ghosts, he told 
himself. Smoky was probably just being 
stupid. 

All the same, Crowfeather still felt 
shaken to the depths of his belly, and he 
caught only troubled snatches of sleep 
before the sky began to pale toward 
dawn. 


The sun had not yet risen when 
Onestar’s voice rang out commandingly 
across the camp. “Let all cats old enough 
to catch their own prey join here beneath 
the Tallrock for a Clan meeting!” 

Crowfeather struggled to his paws to 


see Onestar perched on top of the 
Tallrock, his figure outlined against the 
brightening sky. Harespring and 
Kestrelflight were standing at the base of 
the rock. 

Is all this really necessary, just to 
announce who will be going out on the 
patrol today? Crowfeather wondered, 
stretching his jaws in a massive yawn. 
Or was there more the leader needed to 
say? 

Around Crowfeather, more of the 
warriors were rising from their nests, 
shaking scraps of moss from their pelts 
and shivering in the early-morning chill. 
Crowfeather spotted Nightcloud and 
Breezepelt padding out into the open to 
sit side by side near the Tallrock. One of 


Crowfeather’s forelegs twitched, as if to 
walk over and sit with them, but then he 
turned away and took his position on the 
other side of the group of gathered cats. 

They wouldnt want me to sit with 
them anyway, he thought, surprised to 
feel a heaviness in his chest. 

Whitetail and Whiskernose emerged 
from the elders’ den in the disused 
badger set. “What’s gotten into his fur 
now?” Whiskernose muttered, pausing to 
scratch himself vigorously behind one 
ear. “Whatever it is, couldn’t it wait 
until the sun’s up?” 

All four apprentices scrambled out 
of their den and plopped themselves 
down in a furry heap at the edge of the 
gathering crowd. Crowfeather guessed 


from their wide eyes and excited looks 
that they were expecting momentous 
news, and Oatpaw—Leaftail’s 
apprentice, who hadn’t been with the 
hunting patrol on the previous day— 
looked just as thrilled as the rest. 

So much for telling Hootpaw not to 
talk about it, Crowfeather thought 
wryly. That featherbrain has probably 
told all of the apprentices by now. 

Sedgewhisker padded to the edge of 
the warriors’ den and sat down to groom 
herself, while Emberfoot bounded over 
to sit beside her. Larkwing was heading 
over to join them when the other two 
cats turned a chilling look on her. 
Crowfeather saw Larkwing veer away 
and crouch down next to Whiskernose. 


I dont like the look of that, 
Crowfeather thought. We shouldn't treat 
the Dark Forest cats badly—not 
anymore. It reminded him uncomfortably 
of the time when he had returned to 
WindClan after leaving with Leafpool. 
He had often been on the receiving end 
of cold looks like that; it had been many 
moons before all his Clanmates had 
accepted him again. If they ever did. 
Maybe it will take just as long for the 
Dark Forest cats to be considered true 
Clanmates. 

But the meeting was about to start, 
and Crowfeather had no time to give any 
more thought to what he had seen. 

Onestar’s gaze swept around the 
camp, checking that all the cats had 


assembled. “Kestrelflight visited the 
Moonpool last night, for the half-moon 
meeting,” he began eventually. “He had a 
vision there—a vision that both he and I 
find troubling. Kestrelflight, please tell 
the Clan what you told me.” 

Crowfeather felt a stirring of 
anticipation as the young medicine cat 
drew himself up to address the crowd. 
“Barkface came to me last night in 
StarClan,” he announced, “and he gave 
me a vision about the tunnels that lie 
between our territory and 
ThunderClan’s.” 

Crowfeather was instantly alert, 
feeling his pads prickle with 
apprehension. This couldnt be a 
coincidence! It had to have something to 


do with what he and Hootpaw had seen 
the day before. 

Or maybe its to do with my dream. 

“Barkface showed me the tunnel 
entrances,” Kestrelflight went on, “and 
as I watched, I saw dark water gushing 
out of them in huge torrents, the kind of 
deluge that could sweep cats away and 
completely drown a camp.” 

As he spoke, anxious murmurs rose 
from the cats around him. Crowfeather 
saw many of them exchanging fearful 
looks. It sounded as ifa terrible fate was 
creeping up on WindClan—as if they 
were being stalked by some huge 
predator. Crowfeather was just thankful 
that Barkface, the former WindClan 
medicine cat, was watching over them. 


At least StarClan is giving us a 
warning. 

“At first,” Kestrelflight continued, “a 
wild wind kicked up and drove the 
water back. But eventually the wind 
dropped, and the water kept on rushing 
and gushing out into a second huge wave 
until it swallowed up everything.” The 
mottled gray tom winced at the memory. 
“The sound of it was unbearably loud.” 

Crowfeather suppressed a shiver as 
he remembered the horrible moment in 
his dream when he had stood alone in 
the dark tunnel with water up to his 
shoulders. 

“But what does it mean?” Emberfoot 
called out from where he sat beside 
Sedgewhisker. 


Kestrelflight hesitated a moment 
before replying. “I think it means 
something dangerous is lurking in the 
tunnels,” he mewed eventually. “The 
way the wind controlled the water 
suggests that WindClan can win this 
conflict. But the wind also dropped 
suddenly. Perhaps that means it will be a 
tough battle.” 

For a moment the WindClan cats 
gazed at one another in silence. Then a 
sudden clamor broke out, cats calling out 
ideas of what the vision might mean and 
then arguing with one  another’s 
suggestions. Onestar yowled for silence, 
but no cat was listening. 

“The tunnels did flood before.” 
Weaselfur’s voice rose above the rest. 


“Maybe it’s going to happen again.” 

Now the Clan was silent, pondering 
his words. After a moment Harespring 
meowed, “You could be right. But I— 
and the rest of the patrol who were with 
me yesterday—scented something weird 
at the tunnel entrances. And Hootpaw 
saw—” 

“Ghost cats!” Hootpaw interrupted, 
leaping to his paws with his shoulder fur 
bristling. “I saw ghost cats!” 

The apprentice stood tall, his chest 
puffed out. Crowfeather guessed that 
even though he was scared, Hootpaw 
was enjoying the attention and the 
feeling of importance his announcement 
gave him. Nightcloud was giving him an 
annoyed glance, as if she didn’t like to 





see her apprentice showing off in a Clan 
meeting. 

I’m not a medicine cat, but I can 
see tick duty in Hootpaws future, 
Crowfeather thought with a wry snort of 
amusement. 

Yowls of disbelief and confusion 
greeted Hootpaw’s words, while 
Onestar flicked his tail in irritation. 
“Very well,” he snapped. “Hootpaw, tell 
the Clan what you think you saw.” 

“A ghost cat!” Hootpaw responded, 
his eyes round with awe. “It was all 
white and glowing, and it stared at me 
like it wanted to give me a message.” 

“A message for you?” Whiskernose 
sniffed dismissively. “Why would it give 
a message to an apprentice?” 


“And what was the message?” 
Gorsetail asked. 

Hootpaw gave his chest fur an 
embarrassed lick. “It didn’t say. It just 
vanished into the tunnel again.” 

Heathertail let out a mrrow of 
amusement. “Or maybe it sprouted wings 
and flew away?” 

“Tt did not!” Hootpaw exclaimed 
indignantly. “I know what I saw. And 
Crowfeather saw it, too.” 

Crowfeather tensed so as not to 
shrink backward as every cat turned 
their gaze toward him. “I caught a 
glimpse of something,’ he admitted. 
“But it wasn’t a ghost cat. There’s no 
such thing as ghost cats.” 

To his dismay, many of his 


Clanmates were looking scared, as if 
they believed what Hootpaw had told 
them. They didn’t seem to share his 
denial of ghosts. Instead they were 
exchanging nervous glances, their eyes 
wide with dismay as they murmured 
doubtfully to one another. 

Do they all have bees in their 
brain? Crowfeather wondered. 

“Do you think it could be the Dark 
Forest cats?” Crouchfoot asked, his 
voice quivering. “Could they have come 
back, to get revenge?” 

“Of course not,” Whiskernose 
asserted with a contemptuous flick of his 
tail. “Dark Forest cats wouldn’t come 
back as white, would they? White is sort 
of like StarClan. These must be cats who 


fought on our side! Kestrelflight, not 
every cat who died in the Great Battle 
has been seen in StarClan yet, right?” 

Though Kestrelflight was looking 
definitely uneasy with all these 
suggestions, he shook his head. “No, 
they haven’t,” he replied. 

“So maybe there’s a way to bring 
them back!”  Larkwing suggested 
excitedly. 

Annoyance prickled Crowfeather’s 
pelt as if a whole Clan of ants were 
crawling through it. “Dead cats don’t 
come back,” he snapped. “Except for 
leaders who have lives left. For 
StarClan’s sake, Larkwing, don’t you 
understand death?” 

The pale brown tabby drew back her 


lips and hissed at him, but then looked 
away, saying nothing more. Crowfeather 
instantly felt guilty; the young she-cat 
was obviously having a tough time in the 
Clan, and he hadn’t meant to make it 
worse. Great StarClan, she was only an 
apprentice at the time of the Great 
Battle. She hardly knew how to groom 
her own fur! 

“In any case,” Onestar meowed, 
raising his tail to draw his Clan’s 
attention to him, “it wasn’t a ghost cat! 
But there are animals who might have 
gone to live in the tunnels and could be 
threats to us. Prey has been scarce for a 
while in that part of the territory, and that 
suggests we’re dealing with something 
real.” 


“Good point,” Crouchfoot 
murmured, looking slightly happier. 

“So [ve decided to send a patrol to 
explore the tunnels and see what they 
find,” Onestar went on. “Meanwhile, we 
all need to be careful. If there are hostile 
creatures living there, we must be ready 
to fight.” 

“Of course we are!” Heathertail 
called. ““We’re warriors!” 

Onestar nodded. “Harespring will 
lead the patrol,” he announced. “Are 
there any volunteers to go with him?” 

For a moment no cat answered; they 
only murmured among themselves and 
exchanged doubtful glances. 

“If we might be fighting Dark Forest 
ghost cats,” Crouchfoot muttered, “then 


we should send Breezepelt.” 

Crowfeather glanced across at his 
son and saw that his face wore the 
wounded, angry look that was so 
familiar now. Clearly Crouchfoot’s 
words had hurt him. 

But Crowfeather also knew that this 
was a challenge Breezepelt would not 
want to meet. As a young cat, he had 
been caught in a flood that had raged in 
the tunnels, and he had been terrified of 
them ever since. 

Crowfeather felt a pang of sympathy 
for him and was about to open his jaws 
to defend his son when, to his surprise, 
Breezepelt stepped forward, his chest 
puffed out proudly. “Yes,” he meowed. 
“I will go.” 


Onestar looked impressed, dipping 
his head toward Breezepelt. “There 
speaks a true WindClan warrior,” he 
announced to the others. 

How about that. Crowfeather was 
surprised to see Breezepelt volunteering 
for such a dangerous task—and a little 
bit impressed. But from elsewhere 
around the Tallrock came murmurs of 
disapproval; clearly not all the cats 
agreed with their leader’s praise. 

The murmurs were silenced as 
Nightcloud stepped forward beside her 
son. “Pll go too,” she stated. 

Crowfeather caught a glance 
exchanged between his former mate and 
their son: hers protective and motherly, 
his thankful. He huffed out his breath, 


trying to ignore the pain like a piercing 
thorn at the sight of the love and trust 
between them. Neither one of them ever 
felt that way about me. 

When Breezepelt was a kit, 
Nightcloud had been so overprotective. 
Maybe because he’d been the only one 
of their litter to survive. But 
Crowfeather couldn’t do anything right. 
He was too rough when he tried to play 
with him, or he was too strict. And now 
look how Breezepelt has turned out! 
Crowfeather thought sadly. Irritable, 
defensive, angry... 

Crowfeather suddenly realized that 
Onestar was speaking to him. “Ts that all 
right with you, Crowfeather?” 

Mouse-dung. Now what have I 


missed? “I’m sorry?” he mewed, trying 
to look attentive. 

“I said, I want you to join the 
patrol,” Onestar responded. “After all, 
you saw this strange animal as well. 
Furzepelt and Heathertail will go, too.” 

Stiflng a growl, Crowfeather 
nodded agreement. It made sense that he 
would be chosen to join the patrol, as he 
was the only cat besides Hootpaw who 
had seen anything. But from the look 
Onestar was giving him, he sensed there 
was more to it than that. 

That mouse-brain wants to force me 
to spend more time with Breezepelt. 

Glancing at Nightcloud and 
Breezepelt, Crowfeather could see they 
both looked distinctly unimpressed at the 


idea of his joining them. The memory of 
his horrific dream of Ashfoot came 
surging back into his mind, and he 
admitted to himself that he wasn’t 
exactly thrilled to be going back into the 
tunnels, either. 

This is going to be just great. 


When the meeting was over, 
Harespring sent out the dawn patrol and 
the usual hunting patrols, though he left 
out the six cats who had been chosen to 
go to the tunnels. At sunhigh they 
gathered with their Clanmates around the 
fresh-kill pile to eat before they set out. 
Crowfeather crouched to gulp down a 
mouse, half turned away from his son 
and his former mate. 


“I think there may be rats in the 
tunnels,” Gorsetail mewed between 
mouthfuls of vole. “And maybe what 
Hootpaw saw was a snow-white cat—a 
kittypet—going in after them.” 

“So you don’t think the cat was a 
ghost, then?” Leaftail asked. 

Gorsetail’s | gray-and-white tail 
curled up in amusement. “Well, if it 
wasn’t a ghost then, it may be one now! 
Only a kittypet would be mouse-brained 
enough to try fighting a whole colony of 
rats by without backup.” 

“But isn’t that sort of what we’re 
doing?” Slightpaw asked; Crowfeather 
noticed how confident the young cat 
seemed among a group of warriors. 
“We’re only sending six cats, and who 


knows how many... whatever . . . there 
are down there.” 

“We’re sending six of our best cats,” 
Onestar pointed out. “I trust WindClan 
warriors to defeat anything that might be 
in the tunnels!” 

Slightpaw nodded, accepting what 
his Clan leader told him, though 
Crowfeather spotted some of the others 
exchanging dubious glances. 

They’re_ probably suspicious of 
Breezepelt, he thought. He had to admit 
to himself that he wasn’t sure how his 
son would react when he had to go down 
deep into the tunnels. If the darkness 
stirred up Breezepelt’s old fears, 
Crowfeather hoped that he wouldn’t give 
in to panic. That would embarrass both 


of us. 

“I sort of hope we do see ghost 
cats,” Heathertail mewed wistfully. “Id 
like to see the cats we lost in the battle 
—it’s usually only medicine cats who 
get to talk with the warriors of 
StarClan.” 

“But it wasnt ghost cats,” Onestar 
reminded her gently. 

“That’s true,” Kestrelflight added. 
“Don’t you think that if there were, the 
medicine cats would know about it?” 

“But just suppose our Clanmates did 
return as ghosts,” Larkwing murmured. 
“What would we say to them, do you 
think?” 

“Td say we were sorry,” Whitetail 
responded. “Sorry that they never got to 


live out their lives as members of their 
Clan.” 

“Pd tell them we loved them,” 
Leaftail added softly. 

The other cats’ eyes were filled with 
sorrow, and their heads and tails were 
drooping. Crowfeather became aware of 
a great tide of grief and loss surging 
through his Clanmates. His own lost 
ones came back into his mind, with pain 
sharper than a badger’s claws. 

Ashfoot ... and Feathertail . . . and 
Leafpool. She isnt dead, but she’s lost 
to me, just as if she were. 

“That’s enough,” Onestar meowed as 
the murmurs of regret continued. “We 
must not look back, or we could drown 
in our grief. Perhaps that is what 


Kestrelflight’s vision is about.” 

“But how do we avoid grief?” 
Whitetail asked. “Our loss is all around 
us.” 

“We look forward,’ Onestar 
responded, his voice full of 
determination. Glancing across at 
Crowfeather, he added, “First we figure 
out what is really in the tunnels.” 

Crowfeather looked back at his Clan 
leader and gave him a single nod. Even 
though they both shared doubts over 
Hootpaw’s claims of seeing ghost cats, 
Crowfeather knew that Onestar was 
happy to have a clear task. A patrol to 
establish the safety of their borders after 
the Great Battle might be just the thing 
that would restore calm to WindClan. 





CHAPTER 3 
» 


~v 


“I think we should stick together in the 
tunnels,” Breezepelt announced as the 
patrol headed down the hill. “Who 
knows what might be lurking in there?” 

How stupid! Crowfeather’s neck fur 
rose with his annoyance. “Do you have 
bees in your brain?” he asked harshly. 
“How can we possibly expect to search 
the whole tunnel system if we stick 
together? No, we’ll have to split up into 
smaller groups.” 

Breezepelt glared at him, seeming 
about to defend himself, then turned 
away abruptly and bounded off down the 


hill, leaving the rest of the patrol behind. 
Too late, Crowfeather felt a twinge of 
regret, realizing that his son had 
probably suggested that they should stay 
together because he was afraid. But it 
was still mouse-brained. 

“Did you have to be so brutal?” 
Nightcloud asked, echoing his thoughts 
as she came to pad alongside 
Crowfeather. 

“Oh, who’s that? You’re speaking to 
me now, are you, Nightcloud?” 
Crowfeather retorted, not sure whether 
he was pleased or annoyed. “I didn’t 
realize. You’ve barely said a word to me 
since the Great Battle.” 

Nightcloud let out an irritated sigh. 
“I didn’t have anything to say before. I 


do now.” 

Crowfeather rolled his eyes. “Well, 
this should be good. Go on, then. I’m 
listening.” 

“Surely you’ve seen how the other 
warriors behave toward Breezepelt?” 
Nightcloud continued, slowing her pace 
so that they dropped behind the rest of 
the patrol. “You need to set an example 
for the others, and start being kinder to 
him. How is the rest of the Clan going to 
accept him again if even his own father 
treats him like rotten prey?” 

“Its kind of hard to bond with a cat 
who only thinks of himself,” 
Crowfeather told Nightcloud, 
suppressing a sigh. “One who’s so quick 
to think that every cat is against him. One 


who is so stubborn he can’t even 
pretend he feels bad about the mistakes 
he’s made.” 

“Really?” Nightcloud murmured. 
“That sounds awfully like another tom I 
know.” 

Thats a load of badger droppings. 
Crowfeather’s pelt prickled with 
resentment at the comparison, though he 
knew that just as a cat could inherit the 
color of their parents’ eyes or fur, they 
were also likely to inherit parts of their 
personality and character. 

Even so, neither Crowfeather nor 
Nightcloud was an angry, hateful cat. So 
how had their son turned out to be so 
angry all the time, always ready to fight? 
Where had Breezepelt’s hatred come 


from? 

A chill ran through Crowfeather from 
ears to tail-tip. What if Breezepelt is 
simply an evil cat? 

“Don’t you see how desperately 
Breezepelt wants approval from his 
Clanmates?” Nightcloud went on in a 
low and furious voice. “That must be 
because he feels so distant from his own 
father—a cat who is supposed to love 
him!” 

Crowfeather glanced away, fearing 
that Nightcloud might see revealed on 
his face the thought that was running 
through his mind. 

I’m not sure I can love Breezepelt 
like a son. I’m not sure if I ever did. 

“I understand why it was no good 


between you and me,” Nightcloud 
continued. “You never loved me, and I 
couldn’t bind us together as a family.” 
Her voice caught, and she looked away 
for a moment. Then she turned back to 
him. “But that’s not important now. 
Breezepelt is what matters, and if his 
own father is so dismissive of him, so 
quick to bicker with him—well, it might 
give the rest of our Clanmates the 
impression that he can’t be trusted. And 
if that happens, and he still hasn’t been 
properly accepted back into the Clan, it 
might push him away again.” Her voice 
grew lower still, her fury fading into 
anxiety. “I couldn’t bear that. Could 
you?” 

Crowfeather didn’t know how to 


respond. Nightcloud was right: 
Crowfeather hated to think that his son 
might even leave the Clan—or, worse, 
commit some act of treachery that would 
get him banished. But he couldn’t find 
the right words to respond to his former 
mate. 

Nightcloud waited for a couple of 
heartbeats, then huffed out an 
exasperated breath and picked up her 
pace until she caught up with the others. 
Crowfeather trudged along at the rear of 
the patrol, wondering whether any cat 
would allow him to forgive Breezepelt 
on his own terms, and in his own time. 

If I ever can forgive him. 


At the foot of the hill Breezepelt 


waited beside the nearest tunnel 
entrance. Harespring led the rest of the 
patrol to join him, halted a tail-length 
away from the dark, gaping hole. 

“We'll stick together until we reach 
that cave where several passages lead 
off,” Harespring announced. “After that, 
we'll split up. Crowfeather, you go with 
Heathertail. Nightcloud with Breezepelt. 
And Furzepelt, you’re with me.” 

“What then?” Crowfeather asked. 

“That depends on what we find,” the 
Clan deputy replied. “But we’ll meet 
back here at the entrance in... oh, in 
about the time it takes to do a dawn 
patrol. And may StarClan watch over us 
all.” 

He turned and led the way with 


Furzepelt into the tunnels. Nightcloud 
and Breezepelt followed, leaving 
Crowfeather and Heathertail to bring up 
the rear. 

Crowfeather padded along warily in 
the dimness. The tunnel stretched in front 
of them, wide and straight and lit by thin 
shafts of light that penetrated through 
chinks in the tunnel roof. His paws 
quickly started sticking to the damp and 
sandy floor, and he shivered as the raw 
cold probed into his pelt. 

Opening his jaws to taste the air, 
Crowfeather couldn’t pick up any scents 
except for his own and his Clanmates’, 
and of moist moss and the occasional 
clump of fern growing from cracks in the 
rock. All he could hear was the sound of 


their own paw steps and their soft 
breath. But even though there seemed to 
be no danger, Crowfeather couldn’t stop 
his shoulder fur from rising. 
Uncomfortably, he remembered his 
glimpse of something white, and his 
dream of Ashfoot. 

It seems quiet and safe, but I know 
theres something down here... . 

The patrol did not take long to reach 
the cave Harespring had mentioned, its 
roof a mesh of interlacing tree roots. 
From here, several passages led off into 
darkness. Crowfeather knew that each of 
the tunnels sloped steeply downward, 
farther into the ground, and stifled a 
shiver at the thought of the weight of all 
that soil and rock above his head. 


“This is where we split up,” 
Harespring announced. “Be careful, all 
of you.” 

Breezepelt’s back was arched and 
his eyes were wide as Nightcloud began 
walking into one of the passages, but he 
held his head high and padded 
purposefully after her. Crowfeather 
thought that he was handling his fear 
well. 

Heathertail beckoned Crowfeather 
with a jerk of her head. “Let’s go this 
way.” 

Who died and made you 
Heatherstar? | Crowfeather almost 
objected to being ordered around by a 
younger warrior who had once been his 
apprentice, but he decided it wasn’t 


worth it. He followed the tabby she-cat 
without comment. 

Almost at once the light died away 
behind them and they padded along in 
complete darkness. Crowfeather pricked 
his ears, straining to hear the slightest 
sound from the passage ahead, and kept 
his jaws parted, tasting the air for the 
weird scent they had picked up outside 
on the day before. But at first there was 
nothing. 

A flow of colder air told 
Crowfeather that they were passing a 
side tunnel, and from that direction he 
picked up the faint sound of lapping 
water. 

“Is that the underground river we can 
hear?” he asked Heathertail, trying not to 


sound as nervous as he felt. 

“Oh, no, we’re not nearly deep 
enough for that.” Heathertail’s voice was 
cheerful and confident. “Water often 
collects down there. It’s nothing to 
worry about.” 

“You know your way around these 
tunnels very well,’ Crowfeather 
remarked, impressed in spite of himself. 

“Well...” There was a trace of guilt 
in Heathertail’s voice as she replied. “I 
often used to explore down here when I 
was an apprentice.” 

“I never knew that! Crowfeather’s 
pelt bristled with outrage. Back then he 
had felt Heathertail was a model 
apprentice, and now she was admitting 
she had done something that would have 


earned her tick duty for a whole moon if 
he had found out. 

Heathertail let out a mrrow of 
laughter. “You weren’t supposed to 
know! You would have clawed my ears 
off.” 

“Yov’re right. I would have. Now 
let’s get going.” 

Crowfeather padded onward in the 
black night of the tunnels, his anxiety 
rising with every paw step. No star will 
ever shine here. Does that mean we are 
hidden from StarClans eyes? Once 
again he remembered his dream of 
Ashfoot, and how she hadn’t shone with 
the frosty glimmer ofa StarClan warrior. 
Why hasn t she gone to StarClan, where 
she belongs? 


Farther and farther down they went, 
until Crowfeather began to pick up a 
new scent drifting on the dank air. 

“What’s that?” he muttered. 

He realized that Heathertail had 
halted when he blundered into her and 
felt her tail swipe across his face. 

“Its foul .. . like crow-food,” she 
mewed. 

“It is crow-food,” Crowfeather 
decided after another sniff. “Something 
must be bringing prey into the tunnels 
and then leaving it to rot.” 

“That’s mouse-brained!” Heathertail 
exclaimed. “What does that?” 

“Not ghost cats, that’s for sure,” 
Crowfeather muttered. He wished he 
could take the lead, but the passage was 


too narrow for him to push past 
Heathertail, so he added, “Keep going. 
But be very careful.” 

A few  fox-lengths farther on, 
Crowfeather could tell from the echoing 
of their paw steps that they had emerged 
from the tunnel into a larger space. The 
stench of crow-food had grown and 
grown until it was almost overwhelming. 

“Yuck!” Heathertail’s voice sounded 
as if she was going to be sick. “I’ve just 
stepped in something. It’s all slimy and 
horrible.” 

“Something has been stockpiling 
prey here,” Crowfeather remarked. “So 
at least we know that there are animals 
in these tunnels. And whatever they are, 
they’re obviously not planning to move 


on anytime soon. There’s masses of 
prey.” 

“And they’re going to eat it?” Even 
in the darkness Crowfeather could 
imagine the disgust on Heathertail’s 
face. “What sort of creature eats spoiled 
prey?” she asked again. 

“I don’t know, and I’m not sure I 
want to know,” Crowfeather responded 
grimly. “Let’s get back and report.” 

But before they could do more than 
turn toward the tunnel they had entered 
by, Crowfeather heard a fierce snarling 
and a rush of pattering paw steps. The 
sounds were followed by a jolt of 
pressure on his pelt. Something barreled 
into him; his paws skidded on the slick 
surface of the rock, and he landed on his 


side with a thump that drove the breath 
out of his body. He felt his attacker’s 
weight pin him down before he could get 
to his paws, and then a burst of pain in 
his shoulder where sharp teeth sank into 
his fur and flesh. 

Letting out a yowl, Crowfeather 
desperately lashed out with his hind 
legs. One paw hit something solid and he 
raked his claws, feeling them slash 
across a furry body. He heard a high- 
pitched screech from the creature that 
was attacking him, and it released its 
grip on his shoulder. 

A growl sounded beside 
Crowfeather’s ear and he realized it was 
Heathertail, flinging herself into the 
battle. 


“Got it! she gasped. “It—’ She 
broke off with a shriek of pain. 

Crowfeather hurled himself in the 
direction of the sounds. His outstretched 
paws clamped down on a long, thin 
body, pinning it to the ground. It writhed 
under his claws, but for a moment he 
managed to hold it. 

“Heathertail, are you okay?” he 
asked. 

“Fine.” The answer came out of the 
darkness. “The fox dungeating mange- 
pelt bit my tail!” 

As Heathertail spoke, the creature 
under Crowfeather’s paws gave a 
massive heave, throwing him off. For a 
moment he tottered, his paws sliding on 
something sticky and rank-smelling. 


p? 


“Crow feather, this way 
Heathertail’s voice was urgent. “We 
have to get out of here.” 

‘Pm with you.” Crowfeather 
stumbled after the sound of her paw 
steps and realized they had reentered the 
tunnel. For a few heartbeats he heard the 
skitter of claws on the tunnel floor as the 
animal followed them, and then the 
sound died away behind. 

“Thank StarClan!” he panted. 

He was thankful too for Heathertail’s 
knowledge of the tunnels; he would 
never have found his way out if he had 
been alone. Sooner than he would have 
thought possible he saw a faint light 
filtering down the passage, and he burst 
out after Heathertail into the first cave. 


Heartbeats later they emerged into the 
open air, to see the sun casting long 
shadows across the moor, and 
Harespring and Furzepelt waiting for 
them. 

“What happened to you?” Furzepelt 
asked, her eyes stretching wide with 
amazement as Crowfeather and 
Heathertail padded up. Her nose 
wrinkled. “Great StarClan, you stink!” 

“Thank you for that insight,” 
Crowfeather mewed dryly. “You would 
stink too if you’d been where we’ve 
been.” 

“There was a cave full of crow- 
food,” Heathertail explained, and went 
on to describe the pile of rotting prey 
and the vicious creature they had 


encountered in the tunnels. 

“What was it?” Harespring asked. 

“Your guess 1s as good as mine,” 
Crowfeather replied sourly. “We 
couldn’t see it, and we couldn’t smell 
anything but that disgusting prey-pile. 
But I can tell you one thing: It wasn’t a 
ghost cat. Not unless ghosts have teeth 
and claws.” 

“You're both hurt,’ Harespring 
meowed, sniffing at the bite on 
Crowfeather’s shoulder. “Kestrelflight 
should have a look at that. You might 
need some burdock root.” 

“PII see him as soon as we get back 
to camp,” Crowfeather agreed. “Did you 
find anything?” he asked Harespring. 

The Clan deputy looked slightly 


embarrassed. “We got lost in the 
tunnels,” he admitted. “It took us a long 
time to find our way back to the 
entrance, and to be honest, once we did, 
we weren’t too keen on going back in. 
But we didn’t come across any animals 
—not even any ghost cats.” 

“I wonder what Nightcloud and 
Breezepelt found,’ Furzepelt mewed. 
“They should be back soon.” 

The cats waited as the sun went 
down and twilight fell over the moor. 
They were too alert to sleep, but they 
remained in watchful silence as the wind 
swept through the trees and stars burned 
brightly against the darkening sky. It was 
a long time before Harespring shifted his 
paws uneasily. “They should be back by 


now. Maybe they got lost like we did.” 

Anxiety prickled Crowfeather like a 
thorn as he remembered Breezepelt’s 
fear of the tunnels. J hope he didnt 
panic and do something stupid. 

Finally it was Heathertail who 
spoke, her blue eyes worried. “What if 
something has happened to them? What 
if they met the same creature that we 
did?” 

“They’re both experienced 
warriors.” Harespring was trying to 
reassure her, although it was obvious 
that he felt just as uneasy. “They should 
be able to cope.” 

“But they might—” Heathertail 
began, then broke off, flexing her claws 
and tearing at the springy moorland 


grass. 
Each moment seemed to drag out like 


a moon When he looked up, 
Crowfeather saw that all eyes were on 
him. He could not tell, though, if his 
Clanmates were waiting for him to 
suggest they should go after his son and 
former mate, or whether they expected 
him to go in by himself. 

“Maybe . . . ,” Crowfeather 
suggested at last, “maybe we should go 
and look for them. Heathertail, you could 
lead us—” 

A loud, terrified yowling interrupted 
him. Every cat spun around to stare at 
the tunnel entrance. A heartbeat later the 
yowl sounded again, and Breezepelt 
exploded into the open from another 


entrance a few tail-lengths farther along 
the bank. His eyes were wide with fear, 
and every hair on his pelt was bristling. 

Behind him Crowfeather saw what 
looked like some kind of white cloud 
surging from the tunnel entrance. But in 
the next heartbeat he realized the cloud 
was actually a pack of furious animals, 
snarling and hissing as they chased the 
fleeing Breezepelt. Their eyes glittered 
with malice as they poured out of the 
tunnel and up the slope after him. They 
weren’t ghosts or wayward kittypets. 
He’d never seen white ones before, but 
there was no mistaking the creatures that 
were about to overtake his son. 

“Stoats!”  Crowfeather gasped. 
Snow-white stoats! 





CHAPTER 4 
4 


~v 


Briefly Crowfeather stood frozen in 
confusion. He’d never seen a white stoat 
before. But a moment later he had to 
push his astonishment aside. The crowd 
of stoats split in two, like a river 
breaking on a rock in midstream. Some 
of them still raced after Breezepelt, 
while the rest flung themselves at 
Crowfeather and his Clanmates, who 
remained still, stupefied by what they 
were seeing. 

“Keep together!” Harespring’s yowl 
focused Crowfeather’s mind, and he 
tensed his body, ready to fight. 


The stoats were smaller than the 
cats, but they were fast and nimble, their 
long, wiry bodies easily dodging the 
blows the cats aimed at them. 
Crowfeather found himself fighting 
beside Harespring, trying to drive the 
brutes back into the tunnels. But there 
were too many of them; when 
Crowfeather lashed out at one stoat, two 
or three others would hurl themselves at 
him, trying to climb onto his back or 
knock him off his paws. He knew that if 
he lost his balance and fell, he would not 
get up ever again. He shuddered 
inwardly at the thought of those thorn- 
sharp teeth meeting in his throat. 

Now I know what it was that 
Heathertail and I fought in the tunnel! 


After a few moments, Crowfeather 
lost sight of Harespring, and he had no 
idea where the rest of his Clanmates 
were. Occasionally a screech rose 
above the snarling and chittering of the 
stoats, but he couldn’t tell if they were 
cries of pain or of defiance. Blood was 
dripping from a scratch on his forehead, 
so he could hardly see. 

At last he heard Harespring’s voice 
raised high above the clamor. “Retreat! 
Retreat!” 

At first Crowfeather thought he 
wouldn’t be able to obey. Too many 
stoats were pressing around him, the air 
now so full of their scent that it made 
him choke. He struck out with his 
forepaws at the white bodies that 


gleamed eerily in the gathering darkness, 
trying to force his way up the slope. 

What if we fail to escape them? 

Dazed with pain and exhaustion, 
Crowfeather thought it would be better 
to go down fighting than show these 
ferocious enemies the way to 
WindClan’s camp. 

Then he heard Heathertail’s voice, 
calling to him from close by. 
“Crowfeather! This way!” 

Blinking the blood from his eyes, 
Crowfeather turned his head to see 
Heathertail peering out from the bottom 
of a gorse thicket. He stumbled over to 
her, thrusting himself in among the 
thorns, clenching his jaws at the pain of 
the sharp points tearing at his pelt. 


At first he thought the stoats would 
simply follow him into the thicket. 
Relief surged through him as he realized 
they were drawing back. He crouched 
among the thorns, listening to the 
pattering paw steps and vicious snarling 
of the stoats outside the thicket, until 
gradually the sounds died away. 

Following Heathertail, Crowfeather 
wormed his way through the bushes until 
they emerged on the far side. He was 
even more relieved to see that his 
Clanmates had pushed their way through 
the thorns, too. They all looked battered, 
with clumps of fur missing and blood 
trickling from scratches along their 
sides, but they were alive and on their 
paws. 


“Well,” Heathertail mewed, “I guess 
we know what’s in the tunnels now. 
Stoats! I’m glad you brought enough for 
every cat, Breezepelt.” 

“It was horrible!” Breezepelt still 

looked terribly shaken, hardly able to 
stand upright. “Nightcloud and I were 
surrounded by the disgusting things. I 
thought we’d go to StarClan for sure. 
And then we found a way out, and just 
ran. ...” 
A murmur of apprehension greeted 
his words, but Crowfeather was silent, 
alarm striking him like lightning from a 
clear sky. He looked around. 

“Wait, he meowed. “Where is 
Nightcloud?” 


“What happened, exactly?” Onestar 
asked. 

Back on WindClan territory, the 
battered survivors of the patrol stood in 
the middle of the camp, surrounded by a 
crowd of their Clanmates. Crowfeather 
could hardly bear to meet their anxious 
gazes or see the urgency in Onestar’s 
face as he repeated his question. 

By now night had fallen, and an icy 
wind was sweeping over the moor, 
driving ragged clouds across the moon 
and probing deep into the cats’ fur. But 
no cats thought of returning to their den 
or settling into their nest. They were all 
too worried about the discovery of the 
white stoats in the tunnels, and the 
disappearance of Nightcloud. 


Breezepelt stood with his head 
lowered, staring at his paws, and 
seemed unable to look up at his Clan 
leader, much less answer his question. 
Crowfeather guessed that he was afraid 
of having to explain the disaster to a 
Clan that already didn’t trust him. 

“Breezepelt?” Onestar prompted 
him. “You have to tell us what happened. 
Where is Nightcloud?” 

“I don’t know!” Breezepelt flashed 
back at him, desperation in his voice. “It 
was more .. . more complicated than we 
expected. Once we got down the tunnel, 
there was a fresh scent—it was very 
strong, and different from anything Pd 
scented before. Then those . . . those 
creatures attacked us. It was too dark to 


see what they were, or even how many 
of them were there.” 

“What did you do?” Gorsetail asked, 
her blue eyes fixed intently on 
Breezepelt. 

“What could we do?” Breezepelt 
retorted. “We fought. One of the 
creatures injured Nightcloud, and I tried 
to help her and get her out. Finally we 
managed to escape, but the creatures 
followed us.” 

“Stoats,” Crowfeather put in. “We 
know now that they are stoats.” 

Breezepelt nodded, looking utterly 
wretched. “Nightcloud told me to run,” 
he continued, “so I did. I thought she was 
right behind me. But when I finally got 
out, she wasn’t there. We looked, but we 


couldn’t find her.” 

“And we couldn’t go back into the 
tunnels to search for her,” Harespring 
added, “because the stoats were 
guarding the entrances.” 

Breezepelt lowered his head again, 
his claws extended, digging into the 
ground. “Oh, StarClan!” he choked out 
miserably. “Please don’t let those things 
have killed her. They were so 
vicious .. . and she was so brave... .” 

Watching Breezepelt as he struggled 
with his grief, Crowfeather felt warm 
sympathy flow over him, like sunlight 
striking down through a gap in dark 
clouds. He hadn’t felt like that toward 
his son in a long time. Pangs of 
compassion and anxiety gripped him like 


two sets of claws. 

A dark pit seemed to open up in front 
of Crowfeather as a chilling thought 
went through his mind. 

Nightcloud is a tough warrior. If 
she thought the stoats were a threat to 
Breezepelt, she would have fought to 
defend him—to her last breath if she 
had to. And maybe she did. 

Crowfeather’s chest felt as if he had 
swallowed a thorny rose stem. It made 
sense that Nightcloud would have 
chosen to give her life to save her son’s, 
but the idea that she might have died 
alone in the dark made him ache with 
grief and regret. 

“I don’t like to say this,” Leaftail 
began, breaking the silence that had 


followed Breezepelt’s last words, “but, 
Breezepelt—why didn’t you make 
certain that Nightcloud was with you 
when you were fleeing from the stoats?” 

Breezepelt didn’t meet the tabby 
tom’s gaze. “I told you. . . I thought she 
was with me.” 

Leaftail let out a contemptuous snort. 
“You ‘thought.’ I see...” 

The rest of the Clan exchanged 
uncomfortable glances as Leaftail’s 
voice died away. Crowfeather realized 
that every cat was wondering whether 
Breezepelt hadn’t fought for his mother 
as valiantly as he should have. He felt 
his shoulder fur bristling in unexpected 
defense of his son. 

Breezepelt and Nightcloud have 


always had such a strong bond. I know 
Breezepelt would never have let any 
other animal hurt her. But a worm of 
doubt stirred and writhed within 
Crowfeather’s belly. Or would he... ? 

Breezepelt’s gaze slowly drifted 
over his staring Clanmates. Finally he 
glared at Leaftail. “What are you 
suggesting?” he asked. “That I would 
abandon my mother like that?” 

No cat answered. 

Breezepelt dug his claws into the 
earth. “I was convinced Nightcloud was 
behind me when we left the tunnels!” he 
protested, clearly desperate to be 
believed. “There was nothing I could 
have done.” 

Leaftail gave his whiskers a dubious 


twitch but said nothing more. 

Crowfeather was opening his jaws 
to speak up on Breezepelt’s behalf when 
Onestar forestalled him. 

“You needn’t defend yourself, 
Breezepelt,” the Clan leader meowed. “7 
believe you, because youre an 
honorable WindClan warrior.” His gaze 
raked commandingly over the assembled 
cats. “And I expect every one of you to 
believe him, too. We must unite, because 
we are in grave danger. There’s an 
infestation of stoats in the tunnels, which 
means they are closer to camp than I’m 
comfortable with.” 

Anxious murmurs broke out among 
the Clan as their leader spoke. Their 
attention momentarily shifted away from 


Breezepelt, who stood silently in their 
midst, head and tail drooping. It didn’t 
look as if Onestar’s faith in his loyalty 
had encouraged him in the slightest. 

“Onestar, do you think we should 
warn ThunderClan?” Harespring asked. 
“After all, they share the tunnels. The 
stoats could cause trouble in their 
territory, too.” 

“No,” Onestar responded, every 
cats gaze turning to him at the 
brusqueness of his tone. “We’ll keep this 
to ourselves for now. WindClan can 
solve this problem without involving 
ThunderClan, or their inexperienced 
new leader.” 

Harespring dipped his head in 
agreement, though Crowfeather thought 


that he still looked doubtful. 
Crowfeather understood his doubts—but 
he understood Onestar’s hesitation, too. 
Onestar had always bristled at Firestar’s 
attempts to involve himself in other 
Clans’ business. Maybe he was hoping 
for a new relationship with 
ThunderClan, now that Bramblestar was 
leader. 

“Its possible Nightcloud is trapped 
or being held prisoner by the stoats,” 
Onestar continued. “If so, we have to 
concentrate on rescuing her.” 

“Yes!” Hope suddenly sprang up in 
Crowfeather, like an unexpected sunrise. 
We’re acting as if Nightcloud is dead, 
but she could still be alive. If only we 
can get back there in time. .. . “We 


have to send a patrol out tomorrow— 
and I’ Il lead it this time.” 

Even if we can only make sure that 
she’s not left alone out there, prey for 
scavengers, he thought but did not say 
aloud. Or thrown on that pile of rotting 
crow-food. The idea almost made him 
retch, and he struggled for self-control. 

“Good,” Onestar responded with a 
nod of approval for Crowfeather. 

After a moments hesitation 
Crow feather suggested: “Maybe 
Heathertail should come, too.” 

Onestar tilted his head, as if 
wondering why Crowfeather was asking 
specifically for Heathertail. Crow feather 
wondered how he would explain it 
without giving away Heathertail’s 


history with the tunnels, but his leader 
just shrugged. “Sure. And P11 need two 
or three more cats to volunteer as well.” 

Crowfeather saw relief on 
Heathertail’s face, as Crouchfoot spoke 
up. “Id like to go,” he mewed, 
determination in his face. 

“And me,” Larkwing added eagerly. 
Crowfeather guessed she was trying to 
shake off her reputation as a Dark Forest 
cat. 

Many more cats raised their voices 
then, volunteering to help rescue their 
Clanmate. Crowfeather saw Onestar’s 
chest puff with pride at the courage of 
his warriors; then he shook his head as 
he called quickly for quiet. 

“We should keep the search party 


small,” he meowed. “A small group will 
have a better chance of going unnoticed 
by the stoats. And if our enemies 
somehow leave the tunnels and find their 
way to our camp, WindClan will be 
better defended if we have strong 
fighters here, ready to meet an attack.” 

“If any stoat tries to invade 
WindClan territory,” yowled Emberfoot, 
“itll be the last thing it ever does.” 

As the gathered cats spoke their 
agreement, warmth began to spread 
inside Crowfeather at the way the Clan 
was coming together. After the terrible 
battle against the Dark Forest, he knew 
that all the Clan cats felt protective of 
their Clanmates and their territory, ready 
to defend them from every threat. 


Especially if that threat is not a cat! 

Breezepelt raised his head, the light 
of resolve in his eyes. “I’m going too,” 
he stated, with a glare at Crowfeather as 
if daring him to tell him he couldn’t. 

But it was Crouchfoot who objected. 
“You don’t have to.” 

“I am going.” Breezepelt spat out 
each word. “Nightcloud is my mother.” 

“Of course you can go,” Onestar 
agreed before Crowfeather could 
respond. “You’re more familiar with 
these creatures’ scent than the rest of us.” 

Crowfeather gave his son a nod, and 
was rewarded by seeing a flicker of 
surprise in Breezepelt’s eyes, as if he 
had expected a refusal from his father. 
“We’ll leave at dawn,” he meowed. 


That night, Crowfeather found it hard 
to sleep. The moss and bracken in his 
nest felt as if they were full of thorns and 
spikes, the sharp prickles reminding him 
all too clearly of the claws of the stoats 
they had fought. If he closed his eyes, he 
could see their sinuous white bodies 
glowing in the dusk and their cold, 
malevolent eyes, and _ hear their 
chittering cries. Once or twice he half 
started up, convinced that the evil 
creatures were invading the camp, only 
to realize that the attack was all in his 
mind. 

At the same time, Crowfeather 
couldn’t stop worrying about 
Nightcloud. Making her his mate had 
been a huge mistake, and things were so 


bad between them now that they could 
hardly go out on the same patrol without 
snapping at each other—but that didn’t 
mean he no longer cared about her. He 
felt heaviness like a stone in his belly at 
the thought that he might never see her 
again, realizing that, despite everything, 
he would miss her. And he wasn’t the 
only one. 

WindClan needed her! Crowfeather 
might not have loved her the way he 
should have, but he knew she was an 
amazing cat: courageous, intelligent, and 
loyal. 

And what about Breezepelt? he 
added to himself. He needs 
Nightcloud . . . now more than ever, 
when there are so many questions about 


his loyalty. And if she were to die in the 
tunnels, would those questions ever 
really go away? 

There were so many other concerns, 
too. If his mother is no longer in the 
Clan, who will be the one to encourage 
Breezepelt and defend him to the 
others? 

As soon as Crowfeather asked 
himself the question, the answer came 
back, in the sharp tones of the black she- 
cat. 

Who do you think, flea-brain? 
You’re his father—you do it! 

Crowfeather was so shamed by the 
chiding he imagined she’d give him that 
he turned his face away as if avoiding 
her. Because this thought brought a 


question: Yes, he was _ Breezepelt’s 
father, but . . . how long would it take 
him to really fee/ as if that was true? 
Then he let out a long sigh, and 
waited impatiently for the dawn. 
I hope its soon. ... 





CHAPTER 5 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather drew his patrol to a halt 
outside the tunnel entrance where the 
stoats had appeared the day before. They 
had traveled across the hills in a gray, 
reluctant dawn, the moorland grass spiky 
with frost beneath their pads. A cold 
wind gusted down from the ridge, but the 
ice Crowfeather could feel inside 
himself, spreading from his ears to the 
tips of his claws, had nothing to do with 
the bitter weather of leaf-bare. 

“Listen, all of you,” he meowed, 
turning to his Clanmates. “This isn’t 
going to be easy. We’re going to face the 


stoats on their own territory, and—” 

“What do you mean?” Larkwing 
interrupted. “The tunnels are our 
territory!” 

Crouchfoot let out a snort. 
“ThunderClan might not agree with you 
there.” 

“Well, it’s our territory up to the 
underground river,” Larkwing retorted. 
“And one thing’s for sure—it doesn’t 
belong to these crow-food-eating 
stoats!” 

“Thats enough,” = Crowfeather 
snapped, raising his tail to put an end to 
the wrangling. He knew that his 
Clanmates were only arguing because 
they didn’t want to think about the 
danger they would soon be facing. 


Working themselves up into a rage 
would distract them from the dread they 
felt. “The point is, the stoats think it’s 
their territory. Remember that they didn’t 
follow us very far when they chased 
Breezepelt out of the tunnels last night. 
But inside the tunnels, they’ll be a lot 
more confident.” 

“Encourage us, why don’t you?” 
Crouchfoot muttered. 

Crowfeather ignored the comment. 
“Every cat needs to be very careful,” he 
continued. “We have to stick together, 
avoid the stoats if we can, and do 
whatever it takes to find Nightcloud.” 

But where is Nightcloud? he 
wondered Trapped in a stoat’s den? Or 
lying on one of those piles of rotting 


crow-food? He shuddered. Then another 
thought occurred to him, terrifying in its 
own way. What will we do if we cant 
find her? 

The tunnel gaped in front of them, 
seeming darker and eerier than ever 
before. Glancing at Breezepellt, 
Crowfeather could see fear in his son’s 
amber eyes, but instead of worrying he 
might panic, he felt a renewed pang of 
sympathy for him. 

It would be a weird cat who wasn’t 
unnerved, he thought. He couldn’t help 
but admire Breezepelt for his 
determination to be part of the patrol, 
even after his earlier encounter with the 
Stoats. 

Impulsively he turned to his son, 


meaning to tell him this, but Heathertail, 
who had padded right up to the entrance 
and stuck her head inside, interrupted 
before he could speak. 

“T think I can scent Nightcloud!” she 
exclaimed. 

Crowfeather hurried to join her, 
sniffing carefully at the air just inside the 
tunnel. The stench of stoat was 
overwhelming, and he could distinguish 
Breezepelt’s scent, reeking of his fear 
when he fled. But there was a faint trace 
of Nightcloud, too. 

Turning to the rest of the patrol, 
Crowfeather was about to discuss with 
them what the best approach would be, 
when he realized that Heathertail was 
simply walking into the tunnel. He 


caught a glimpse of her tail disappearing 
into the darkness. 

“Wait for us!” he called out with an 
exasperated lash of his tail. Just because 
the tabby she-cat knew the tunnels well 
didn’t mean that she should just stroll in 
there unprotected. What happened to 
“stick together” and “be careful”? he 
asked himself. Does she think she 5 a kit 
exploring her own camp? 

“Come on,” he added to the others. 
His muscles tensed with urgency as he 
imagined Heathertail pulled down by a 
crowd of bloodthirsty stoats. 

Just as the patrol was about to enter 
the tunnel, Crowfeather heard a strange 
scrabbling sound and stopped to listen. 
That doesnt sound like a cats paw 


steps. 

A faint gust of air floated out of the 
tunnel, making his nose and whiskers 
twitch. It was the scent of stoat—and it 
was fresh. 

“Heathertail!” Breezepelt exclaimed 
hoarsely. “She’s in danger!” He sprang 
forward, but Crowfeather was faster, 
leading the way into the passage. 
Breezepelt pressed up close behind him, 
with  Crouchfoot and  Larkwing 
following. 

Soon the last of the light died away, 
and the cats padded forward in darkness. 
Crowfeather kept his ears pricked, 
straining to hear what was ahead. He 
could still taste stoat scent in the air, 
mingled with Heathertail’s. Every 


instinct was telling him to call out to her, 
but he kept silent, in case his voice 
would draw more stoats toward them. 

Now we have two missing cats, he 
thought. And we have no idea where 
either of them might be. 

Crowfeather’s heart pounded harder 
with every paw step. He could hardly 
bear to think what Breezepelt must be 
feeling. But Crowfeather could detect no 
signs that his son was panicking; he 
could hear Breezepelt’s paw steps 
following steadily behind. If he had any 
impulse to bolt, he was doing a good job 
fighting it. 

Then a faint shimmer from 
somewhere above showed Crowfeather 
that the tunnel was widening out into a 


cavern. Looking up, he saw a thin ray of 
light striking down from a hole in the 
roof. The scrabbling sound came again, 
claws scraping on the stone floor of the 
tunnel. At the same moment Crowfeather 
heard a chittering cry and saw a flash of 
white in the dimness. Briefly he halted. 

They’re taunting us, trying to draw 
us farther in, he thought. Then they can 
pick us off at their leisure. 

“This is mouse-brained,” Crouchfoot 
meowed, padding up to stand beside 
Crowfeather. “We could be heading right 
into an ambush.” 

“But we have to go on,” Breezepelt 
protested. “We have to do whatever we 
can to save Nightcloud and Heathertail.” 

Crowfeather gave his son a nod of 


approval, pleased at how he was 
overcoming his fear. “Breezepelt is 
right,’ he declared, noticing his son 
sharply turning his head toward him, 
surprise in his eyes. “What choice do we 
have? Go back to camp with another cat 
missing when none of us has even seen a 
stoat yet?” But still an inner voice 
warned him: Cats might get hurt, or 
even killed, trying to save their 


Clanmates. . . . Oh, StarClan, help 
us.... Help us all make it back to camp 
today! 


Crowfeather shuddered. He 
wondered how StarClan could give them 
any help at all, down here in the earth 
where no stars had ever shone. 

“We keep going,” he mewed. 


Determinedly he padded on across 
the cavern with his Clanmates behind 
him, aware of flickering white shapes 
ahead of them and on either side. Their 
high-pitched cries came from all 
directions, as if the creatures were 
calling out to one another. Or taunting 
us, Crowfeather thought. 

Then one of the stoats darted out less 
than a fox-length in front of Crowfeather, 
appearing so quickly that he had no time 
to warn the others. It was almost a relief, 
after the long tension of waiting—the 
attack they had been expecting was 
finally about to start. 

Instinctively Crowfeather drew 
backward, only to collide with 
Breezepelt, feeling his son’s body rigid 


with tension and anger. For a moment 
neither of them could move, and in that 
brief hesitation the small, long-bodied 
creature leaped forward and fastened its 
teeth in Crowfeather’s side. 

Crow-food-eating mange-pelt! 
Crowfeather let out a screech of pain 
and batted the creature away with a 
fierce swipe of his paw. The stoat fell 
back, tearing out a chunk of 
Crowfeather’s fur as it went. 

Why are you such a pain in the tail? 
Normally, Crowfeather knew, an 
infestation of stoats would be easy for 
WindClan to deal with. But these stoats 
were so destructive! Peering through the 
weak light, Crowfeather saw that it was 
pure white, except for a black tip on its 


tail—exactly like the stoats that had 
come pouring out of the tunnels on the 
previous evening. A shiver of fear 
passed through him at the sight of it. 

They’re so eerie. .. . I’d rather face 
a fox or a badger. 

The stoat leaped at Crowfeather 
again, and Crouchfoot and Larkwing 
thrust their way forward, dragging it off 
as it sank its claws into Crowfeather’s 
shoulders. Crouchfoot raked his claws 
down its side and the stoat fled, 
whimpering, into the darkness. But as it 
vanished, more and more of the white 
shapes came skittering into the cavern, 
converging on the group of cats. The 
stoats’ malignant eyes glinted in the pale 
light, and their lips were drawn back to 


reveal their spiny fangs. 

So they’re showing themselves at 
last, Crowfeather thought grimly. That 
first one was just to get us in the mood 
for a battle! 

Breezepelt charged ahead with an 
earsplitting caterwaul, obviously ready 
to fight every single one of them. 
Crowfeather’s belly lurched with fear, 
and he sprang forward to put his own 
body between his son and their enemies. 
Larkwing helped him drag Breezepelt 
back down the passage, with Crouchfoot 
in the rear, slashing and raking his claws 
to drive the stoats back until they all 
burst out into the open. 

“But what about Heathertail?” 
Larkwing gasped. “I didn’t see her in 


there.” 

“PII find her!” Breezepelt yowled. 

Before Crowfeather could stop him, 
he whipped around and barreled back 
into the tunnel, slamming into the stoats 
and knocking them aside to force his 
way through them. 

“Breezepelt, no!” Crowfeather 
screeched after him. But his son paid no 
attention. The lithe, white-furred stoats 
closed around him as he fought his way 
through and vanished into the darkness. 
Soon the sound of skittering claws and 
pounding paw steps died away. 

For a heartbeat Crowfeather stood 
frozen, stunned by the speed of 
Breezepelt’s attack. Then, with a 
massive effort, he pulled himself 


together. “We have to go after him,” he 
meowed. 

Larkwing and Crouchfoot exchanged 
an anxious glance, then nodded and 
stood a little taller—as if, by pretending, 
they could make themselves feel more 
confident than they actually were. 
“We're with you,” Crouchfoot 
responded. 

Crowfeather braced himself to 
plunge back into the tunnel, into the 
deadly crowd of stoats, but before he 
could move, Larkwing yowled, “Wait!” 

Turning toward her, Crowfeather 
saw that she was pointing with her tail. 
Looking in that direction, Crowfeather 
spotted a light brown tabby she-cat 
stumbling out of another tunnel opening 


farther along the bank, with a black tom 
hard on her paws. Heathertail and 
Breezepelt . . . they’re alive! As soon as 
they emerged, Breezepelt spun around 
and dropped into a crouch, baring his 
teeth and sliding out his claws. 

“Come out if you dare, you filthy 
stoats!” he snarled. 

Crowfeather raced along the bank; 
he could hear the paw steps of 
Crouchfoot and Larkwing as they 
pounded along behind him. 

A few stoats were jostling one 
another in the entrance, snarling in 
response to Breezepelt’s challenge, but 
before any cat could attack, they crept 
backward and vanished into the 
darkness. 


As Crowfeather and the others 
reached him, Breezepelt rose to his 
paws, blinking in surprise. Crowfeather 
knew that Breezepelt had nearly 
drowned once in these tunnels. He 
guessed his son had never seen himself 
as brave enough to charge into them 
again like that, in search of Heathertail. 

He must really have wanted to 
prove himself. 

With the danger over for the time 
being, Crowfeather whirled around to 
confront Heathertail. “Are you 
completely mouse-brained?” he 
demanded. “If you don’t care about your 
own safety, what about your Clanmates’? 
We could have lost you and Breezepelt 
because you were such a stupid furball!” 


He got the impression that 
Heathertail was hardly listening. She 
was staring past him, and he realized 
that her blue gaze was fixed on his son. 

“Thanks, Breezepelt,” she 
murmured. “You were really brave.” 

Oh, for StarClan’s sake. Breezepelt 
had an admirer. I suppose theres a she- 
cat out there for every tom, 
Crowfeather reflected. No matter what 
a fuzz-brain he may be. 

Breezepelt gave the ground a couple 
of awkward scrapes with one forepaw. 
“Tt was nothing,” he mumbled. 

Breezepelt didnt just do that to 
prove himself, Crowfeather realized 
with a tingle of shock in his whiskers. 
He must really care about her. And it 


might not be one-sided. . . . 

He knew that Breezepelt had been 
padding after Heathertail ever since they 
were both apprentices. But back then, 
she had seemed more interested in 
Lionblaze, the ThunderClan tom. 
Crowfeather had been vastly relieved 
when that friendship fizzled out. 

No good can come out of 
relationships outside your own Clan. 
He suppressed a sigh. No cat knows that 
better than I do. 

Now Crowfeather blinked at his son 
with approval of the choice he had 
made. Even though he had just clawed 
Heathertail with his tongue, he couldn’t 
think of any she-cat he would rather see 
as his son’s mate. 


His anger fading, he turned back to 
Heathertail. “Are you all right?” he 
asked. 

“Tm fine,” Heathertail replied. “And 
Pm sorry for dashing off like that. I 
thought you would be right behind me.” 

“Sorry” catches no prey, 
Crowfeather thought, acknowledging her 
apology with a curt nod. “As long as 
you're okay.” 

Larkwing was already giving a 
careful sniff at Heathertail’s 
hindquarters. “No, she’s not okay,” she 
meowed. “Those  StarClan-cursed 
mange-pelts have torn out all her fur!” 

Crowfeather padded over to take a 
look. Huge clumps of Heathertail’s pelt 
had been wrenched out, and blood was 


trickling from so many wounds he 
couldn’t count them. He could also see 
two claws missing from one of her hind 
paws, and he remembered how she’d 
been stumbling as she came out of the 
tunnel. None of her injuries looked life- 
threatening, but the loss of blood alone 
was going to weaken her badly. 

Crowfeather realized that shock, or 
relief at being rescued, must have been 
keeping Heathertail on her paws. But 
pretty soon the rush would wear off and 
the worst of the pain would hit her, and 
then she would need poppy seed to help 
her sleep. 

Taking another look at the tabby she- 
cat’s injuries, he was surprised that she 
was still standing. Heathertail is one 


tough cat! 

“She really ought to go back to camp 
and see Kestrelflight,” Larkwing pointed 
out. “We should all go, and come back 
another day with more warriors 
enough of us to deal with those stoats.” 

“Are we sure they were stoats?” 
Crouchfoot asked. “They were all 
white!” 

“ve never seen white  stoats 
before,” Larkwing added. “Do you think 
they’re ghosts after all?” 

Crowfeather rolled his eyes. “Great 
StarClan, is every cat bee-brained?”’ he 
asked. “If they were ghosts—which 
they’re not—how could they touch us?” 

Larkwing and Crouchfoot just looked 
at each other; they didn’t argue, but 





Crowfeather didn’t think he had 
managed to convince them. But at least 
Crouchfoot was treating Larkwing just 
like any of his other Clanmates, as if she 
had never set paw in the Dark Forest. 

“Humph.” Crowfeather let out an 
annoyed grumble. J suppose we dont 
know what ghosts could do, but since 
our enemies aren’t ghosts, theres no 
point in worrying about it. 

“T think I know why they’re white,” 
Heathertail meowed. “Because we’re in 
leaf-bare, and once there’s snow on the 
ground the stoats will be practically 
invisible. Their white pelts will make it 
easier for them to stalk their prey. I don’t 
know why they have a dark tail, though,” 
she added as an afterthought. 


Crowfeather blinked at her, struck by 
the cleverness of her explanation. “I 
think you're probably right,” he 
responded. “Thank StarClan one cat has 
a bit of common sense. The rest of you 
go back to camp with Heathertail,” he 
added to the others. “Report to Onestar. 
But I can’t go with you. Not until I’ve 
found Nightcloud.” Dead or alive, he 
added silently to himself. 

With a pang of guilt, he remembered 
their argument about the way he treated 
Breezepelt, on the way to the tunnels the 
day before. Right after that, Nightcloud 
had disappeared. He couldn’t help 
wondering whether their argument had 
driven her into the paws of these strange 
stoats. She might have been so angry, or 


upset, that it made her reckless... 

His thoughts were interrupted by 
Breezepelt. “I'll stay, too,” he meowed. 

Heathertail cast him a worried 
glance, and Crowfeather thought she was 
about to protest. Then she gave her pelt a 
quick shake. “Just be careful when you 
go in there,” she warned them. “I scented 
water up ahead, which means some of 
the tunnels will be flooded.” 

Her gaze rested on Breezepelt, 
deeply serious now, and Crowfeather 
wondered if she was thinking the same 
as he was. Will Breezepelt panic if we 
go too deep into the tunnels? 

Crowfeather stood still, watching as 
Heathertail limped away, with 
Crouchfoot and Larkwing on either side 


of her, giving her a helping paw over the 
rough places. 

“Are you ready to go back in?” he 
asked Breezepelt, when the others had 
disappeared over the ridge. 

Breezepelt glanced at him, his amber 
eyes widening with nervous anticipation. 
For a moment he hesitated; then he gave 
a nod. “Let’s go,” he muttered. 

Crowfeather turned to face the dark 
holes gaping in the bank. “We’ll go this 
way,” he decided, heading for the 
entrance at the far end, the one the patrol 
had used the day before. “At least we 
won’t be walking straight back into the 
stoats’ paws.” 

In the first part of the tunnel, wider 
than most and lit from above, there was 


only a faint scent of stoat, and even that 
was Stale. Crowfeather could pick up the 
scents of the first patrol, too, including 
Nightcloud, though that wasn’t going to 
help them to find her now. 

“Which tunnel did you and 
Nightcloud take yesterday?” 
Crowfeather asked Breezepelt when they 
reached the cave where the tunnels 
branched off. 

“That one,” Breezepelt replied, 
pointing with his tail. 

“Lead on, then,’ Crowfeather 
meowed. 

Breezepelt gave a start of surprise at 
his father’s order, then padded 
cautiously into the tunnel he had 
indicated. Crowfeather watched him for 


a moment, to be sure that his courage 
would hold, that his nerves would not 
get the better of him. 

When he was sure that Breezepelt 
was not going to flee the tunnel, 
Crowfeather followed. He could sense 
fear in his son’s scent, but determination 
too, and his paw steps were steady. 

Within moments they were plunged 
into complete darkness, and Crowfeather 
could detect damp air rising from 
somewhere ahead of them. “Don’t forget 
that Heathertail warned us about 
flooding,” he reminded Breezepelt. 

He could sense his son shivering, 
and remembered once again the time 
Breezepelt had nearly drowned in the 
tunnels when he was an apprentice. 


“It’s best not to think about the past,” 
he advised Breezepelt. Somehow it was 
easier to talk to him in the thick darkness 
than when they could face each other in 
the searching light of day. “But if you 
must think about it, remember how you 
survived. The memory of the terrible 
thing that happened here should remind 
you of how strong and brave you are.” 

His son was silent for several 
heartbeats, just padding on steadily 
down the tunnel. It had been moons since 
Crowfeather had paid Breezepelt a 
compliment, and he wasn’t sure how he 
would take it. Maybe I should have kept 
my mouth shut. 

“Tm not afraid anymore,” Breezepelt 
responded at last. “I take after my 


mother, and she’s the bravest cat I’ve 
ever met. Thats how I know that 
Nightcloud is still alive.” 

Crowfeather had known plenty of 
brave cats who had met terrible ends, 
but he wasn’t about to say that to 
Breezepelt. He wondered, though, if he 
should advise his son not to get his 
hopes up too high. 

What if Nightcloud has drowned? 
Or maybe the stoats killed her. What if 
we're looking for her body? 

Crowfeather tried his best to push 
those thoughts away as he and 
Breezepelt moved on through the tunnels, 
the passages leading them farther and 
farther downward. Now and again 
Crowfeather picked up the scent of 


water, but they were able to avoid the 
flooded tunnels Heathertail had warned 
them about. By now the last traces of 
Nightcloud’s scent had faded— 
swamped, Crowfeather guessed, by the 
dampness in the air and on the slick 
stone floor. 

Finally Crowfeather became aware 
of a faint light filtering up from below. 
The scent of water grew stronger still, 
until the cats emerged into a huge cavern 
lit by a jagged hole in the roof, high 
above their heads. The floor was rippled 
stone, and across the center a river 
flowed, appearing from a dark hole at 
one side of the cave and disappearing 
again into another hole opposite. 

Crowfeather breathed in fresher air 


from the other side of the river, and with 
it another familiar scent. He exchanged a 
glance with Breezepelt. Oh, fox dung. 

“ThunderClan!” 

We dont want to get any closer to 
them, Crowfeather thought. After the 
Great Battle, its not going to take 
much to create new tension among the 
Clans. 

“Maybe we should turn back,” he 
told his son. 

Breezepelt glared at him. “Without 
finding Nightcloud?” 

Crowfeather flexed his claws 
uncomfortably on the damp stone of the 
cavern floor. “We haven’t picked up her 
scent since just after we entered the 
tunnels. “There’s no evidence that she 


ever came this way.” 

“But we have to try!” Breezepelt 
protested. “If she’s lying injured 
somewhere, time could be running out 
for her. She could bleed to death . . . or 
she could be defenseless against more 
stoats.” 

Crowfeather grimaced, unsure what 
to do. The last thing he wanted was to 
put his son in danger for no reason. But 
what if Breezepelt was right? Staying on 
good terms with ThunderClan was 
important, but would he ever be able to 
forgive himself if he gave up now and 
later discovered that he could have 
saved Nightcloud if they'd kept 
searching just a little bit longer? 

He nodded slowly. “Okay, we’ll 


keep going.” 

Padding alongside the river, 
Crowfeather came to a narrower place 
where the water roared along in a 
deeper gully. “We can cross here,” he 
murmured. 

Drawing back a few fox-lengths, he 
took a run up to the bank and pushed off 
in a massive leap. As he took off, he felt 
his paws slip on the wet rock, and for a 
moment he was afraid that he would fall 
short of the opposite bank. Then he felt 
his paws strike the rock, but so close to 
the edge that he stumbled and barely 
managed to stop himself from falling 
back into the current. Regaining his 
balance, he turned back in time to see 
Breezepelt make the leap and land neatly 


beside him with a smug twitch of his 
whiskers. 

“Follow me,” Crow feather 
murmured, ignoring his son’s triumphant 
look. “And step quietly. There might be 
ThunderClan cats lurking.” 

He chose a tunnel that led upward 
from the far side of the cave. Light died 
away behind them, and the tunnel rapidly 
grew narrower, until he could feel his 
pelt brushing the walls on either side. 
Now and again they passed tunnels 
leading off to the side, but the air down 
there smelled musty, and there was never 
any doubt about which tunnel led out into 
the open. 

Crowfeather kept on tasting the air, 
but there was still no sign of Nightcloud. 


However, the ThunderClan scent grew 
stronger and stronger: not just the Clan 
scent that clung to any territory, but fresh 
and complex, the mingled scent of 
several cats. 

There are three or four different 
cats up there, he thought. They must be 
a patrol. I hope they’re just passing, 
and not meaning to explore the tunnels. 

“Don’t make a sound,” he warned 
Breezepelt in a low murmur. 

A green light grew ahead of them, 
and soon Crowfeather could see the end 
of the tunnel, covered by an overhanging 
growth of fern. He could make out the 
shapes of cats moving around just 
outside. Crowfeather halted, crouching 
down to the tunnel floor. Glancing back 


at Breezepelt, he raised his tail to 
remind him to be silent. 

“Tm talking about the safety of all 
the Clans.” The voice came down the 
tunnel to where Crowfeather crouched 
concealed, the tone loud and 
argumentative. 

Crowfeather recognized the voice. 
Its that waste of fresh-kill Berrynose. 

“We should be making sure that the 
other Clans have been testing the cats 
who fought on behalf of the Dark 
Forest,” Berrynose went on. “As long as 
there are doubts about those cats’ 
loyalties, the forest might never be 
peaceful.” 

“But we—” Another voice, which 
Crowfeather couldn’t identify, tried to 


interrupt. 

“Yes, we have asked stern questions 
of our warriors.” Berrynose ignored the 
interruption. “But how do we know that 
the Dark Forest warriors in other Clans 
can really be trusted? If they can’t, they 
should be driven out.” 

Crowfeather could feel the roiling 
anger wafting off Breezepelt, as strong 
as the reek of fox scent. Glancing back, 
he saw his son’s shoulder fur bristling 
and his amber eyes glittering with fury. 
He was sure that in a couple of 
heartbeats Breezepelt would launch 
himself out of the tunnel and fling 
himself on Berrynose. 

And it’s not just Breezepelt, he told 
himself, thinking about the Clan deputy, 


Harespring; Whiskernose, who should 
be allowed to retire with honor to the 
elders’ den; and Furzepelt and Larkwing, 
both struggling as hard as they could to 
be seen as loyal WindClan cats. What 
right has that flea-brain Berrynose to 
talk about driving out any cat? 

Crowfeather began to ease his way 
carefully back down the tunnel, signaling 
to Breezepelt to do the same. 

“Lets get back to looking for 
Nightcloud,” he murmured when they 
had put several fox-lengths between 
themselves and the ThunderClan cats. 
“Nothing good will come of you 
listening to anything more that stupid 
furball has to say.” 

“Pd like to claw his pelt off,” 


Breezepelt growled. But to 
Crowfeather’s relief he didn’t try to 
argue. He simply rose to his paws and 
began to pad back the way they had 
come. 

But before he and Breezepelt had 
traveled more than a few fox-lengths, 
they heard the sound they had come to 
dread: the scratching of innumerable 
claws on the stone floor of the tunnel. 

“Run!” Crowfeather yowled. 

The word had hardly left his jaws 
before the scuttling noises were all 
around them, and glittering, malevolent 
eyes reflected the dim light of the tunnel. 
He choked on the reek of the scent that 
had become horribly familiar by now. 
Chittering calls broke out on all sides, 


and before the cats could flee, they were 
engulfed in a rising tide of white stoats. 





CHAPTER 6 
» 


~v 


Thrusting the stoats aside, Crowfeather 
struggled down the passage, casting a 
glance over his shoulder to make sure 
that Breezepelt was following. As he 
lashed out with his foreclaws, the stoats 
drew back, so he was able to run. With 
Breezepelt hard on his paws he raced 
down the passage toward the cavern 
where the river flowed, all the while 
hearing the scrabbling of the stoats’ 
paws as they gave chase. 

What if we meet more of them 
coming up? 

As the thought went through his 


mind, a stoat sprang at Crowfeather out 
of the darkness, fastening its teeth in his 
shoulder. Letting out a screech of pain, 
Crowfeather shook it off and veered 
away down a side passage. Too late he 
realized how stale the air was and how 
the tunnel floor suddenly became 
uneven, littered with loose stones and 
soil. The passage narrowed rapidly until 
the walls pressed in on him on either 
side, almost crushing his ribs, and his 
ears brushed the roof. 

This is a dead end! 

Crowfeather stumbled to a halt and 
felt Breezepelt crash into him from 
behind, driving him even farther into the 
tiny space. He could taste soil in his 
mouth, and the air was heavy with stoat 


scent; he could hardly breathe. 

“Go back!” he choked out. 

“Can’t—stoats!” Breezepelt gasped 
in reply. 

Crowfeather could feel Breezepelt’s 
weight on his hindquarters as he strained 
against the narrow walls, and could hear 
the chittering of the stoats as they 
approached, but he was too tightly stuck 
to get free and help his son. He braced 
himself, digging his claws into the 
ground, and felt with a shudder of horror 
the light trickle of earth falling from the 
roof onto his pelt like a dry rain. 

Oh, StarClan, get us out of this! 

Suddenly the pressure of 
Breezepelt’s body on his hindquarters 
eased and Crowfeather was able to start 


moving backward. At the same moment, 
the stoats’ shrill calls of defiance 
changed to sounds of alarm, and the 
scrabbling of their claws died away. 

What happened? Crowfeather asked 
himself, stunned. 

The stoat scent began to fade, too, 
and another, stronger scent rose up to 
take its place. A familiar voice spoke 
from somewhere behind him. 

“You can come out now. The stoats 
are gone.” 

Thats that mouse-brain Berrynose Ùs 
voice, Crowfeather realized. So much 
for not alerting ThunderClan that 
we’re here! 

Paw step by paw step Crowfeather 
backed out of the tight tunnel until he 


reached the main passage again. 
Breezepelt was waiting for him, along 
with four ThunderClan warriors. 

Every hair on Crowfeather’s pelt 
grew hot with shame at the thought of 
being rescued by another Clan. Could 
we have been any more undignified, 
creeping out with our tails and 
hindquarters in the lead? He was 
grateful that it was too dark to make out 
the ThunderClan cats; he was 
embarrassed enough without having to 
see the satisfied look in their eyes. 

“Thank you,” he meowed, the two 
words needing a massive effort. 

Berrynose spoke again, his tone 
brusque. “Follow us up the tunnel.” 

Crowfeather and Breezepelt had no 


choice but to comply; Berrynose took the 
lead with another ThunderClan cat 
behind him and the remaining two 
ThunderClan warriors bringing up the 
rear. Crowfeather almost felt as if he had 
been taken prisoner, and had to fight to 
stop a growl escaping his throat. The 
last thing he and Breezepelt needed was 
to start a fight when they were not only 
on another Clan’s territory, but also 
outnumbered. 

As they brushed past the hanging 
ferns into the open, Crowfeather 
recognized Spiderleg following 
Berrynose; Rosepetal and Cinderheart 
made up the rest of the patrol. 

No problem. Nothing to worry 
about here. Crowfeather gave his pelt a 


shake, raising his head and tail, and tried 
to look like a seasoned, competent 
warrior as he faced the ThunderClan 
cats. But when he caught sight of 
Breezepelt, his fur torn and clotted with 
earth, his eyes wide with the memory of 
terror, he realized that he probably 
didn’t look much better himself. 

“You're on ThunderClan territory,” 
Berrynose snapped. “What are you doing 
at our end of the tunnels?” 

“That’s none of your—” Breezepelt 
began defensively, but Berrynose paid 
no attention. 

“Don’t you know how it looks, 
WindClan cats lurking up here?” he 
demanded. “We haven’t forgotten the last 
time you tried launching an attack from 


the tunnels.” 

“We're not here to fight,” 
Crowfeather mewed, trying to sound 
peaceable. 

“Even so, you should know better,” 
Spiderleg pointed out, the tip of his tail 
twitching to and fro. “Suppose we’d 
been a group of more hotheaded cats? 
There could have been trouble.” 

Who are you to lecture me, you bee- 
brain? But before Crowfeather could 
respond, Breezepelt let out a furious 
hiss. “It sounds like ThunderClan is 
planning for trouble—trying to tell other 
Clans what to do about their Dark Forest 
warriors. Saying they should be driven 
out. We’re not the cats who are causing 
problems!” 


Crowfeather winced as a tense 
silence followed his sons words. 
Breezepelt, I may be angry too, but that 
was a really bad idea. The two 
ThunderClan she-cats exchanged an 
alarmed glance, while Spiderleg’s tail 
lashed even more furiously, and 
Berrynose slid out his claws and 
flattened his ears. 

“Were you eavesdropping?” he 
challenged Breezepelt. “Is that what you 
were up to? Is WindClan spying on us 
now?” 

Crowfeather could see Breezepelt’s 
muscles bunching beneath his pelt, and 
stepped forward quickly before his son 
could leap at Berrynose. Crowfeather 
realized he was in the strange position of 


trying to temper another cat’s anger. 
Usually he was the angry cat. But as 
much as he would have liked to claw 
Berrynose’s mangy pelt off and use it to 
line his nest . . . they were outnumbered 
here. And Onestar probably wouldn’t 
like it if they accidentally started a war 
with ThunderClan. 

“Breezepelt wasn’t up to anything,” 
Crowfeather assured them. “We were 
just in the tunnels . . .” He paused, 
wondering whether he ought to tell them 
about Nightcloud. Zf they know stoats 
possibly killed one of our warriors, 
they might try to interfere, because 
that’s what ThunderClan does. . . . “We 
werent spying, or trying to cause 
trouble,” he went on rapidly, before the 


ThunderClan warriors could get annoyed 
at his hesitation. “The stoats took us by 
surprise, and we didn’t realize we’d 
ended up close to ThunderClan until it 
was too late.” 

Spiderleg’s gaze flicked from 
Crowfeather to Breezepelt and back 
again. “I suppose you might have had 
your reasons,” he admitted grudgingly. 
“But given everything that’s happened, 
we really should take you to 
Bramblestar.” 

“Yes, just to make sure he knows 
exactly what’s going on,” Berrynose 
agreed. 

“You can try,” Breezepelt growled. 

Crowfeather fixed him with a glare. 
He sympathized with his son’s anger, but 


if he started a fight with the ThunderClan 
cats, there was no guarantee either one 
of them would come out of it alive. He 
urged him silently to keep quiet. 

“Hang on, Spiderleg,”’ Cinderheart 
meowed. “Aren’t you making too much 
of this? It’s not like we caught 
Crowfeather and Breezepelt stealing 
prey. Wouldn’t it be better just to escort 
them off our territory?” 

Finally, Crowfeather thought, A 
ThunderClan cat speaks reason. 

“And we can report this to 
Bramblestar without them,” Rosepetal 
added. 

“You bet we will,” Berrynose 
muttered. 

Flea-brain. 


He and Spiderleg exchanged a 
glance; then Berrynose shrugged. “I 
suppose they might be right.” 

At a nod from _ Spiderleg, 
Crowfeather stalked away from the 
tunnel entrance and headed for the 
stream that formed the border with 
ThunderClan. Breezepelt followed him, 
with the ThunderClan cats following ina 
ragged half circle. 

At first Crowfeather was relieved 
that the tension has passed and that he 
and Breezepelt were not going to be 
dragged into the fight that he was 
fearing. But then he remembered why 
they’d stepped into the tunnels, and his 
relief was replaced with a twinge of 
bitterness, a sick feeling in his throat, as 


if he had eaten crow-food. 

That went about as badly as it 
could have, he thought. And we still 
haven t found Nightcloud. 


“Don’t come back,” Berrynose 
snarled as Crowfeather and Breezepelt 
padded across the stepping stones to the 
WindClan side of the stream. “And stay 
out of the tunnels. Next time you get into 
danger, ThunderClan might not be 
around to save your tails.” 

Breezepelt opened his jaws to retort, 
but he closed them again when 
Crowfeather slapped him on the 
shoulder with his tail. Both WindClan 
cats watched in silence as the 
ThunderClan warriors turned and 


vanished into the undergrowth. 

Crowfeather’s fur was tingling with 
anger—partly at the arrogance of the 
ThunderClan cats, but mostly at his own 
son. 

“If you had just kept your jaws shut, 
we wouldn’t have had that argument. 
Whatever tension remains between 
ThunderClan and WindClan after the 
Great Battle, you’ve just made it 
worse.” 

“But they were talking about driving 
cats out,” Breezepelt responded. 
Crowfeather could see his own anger 
reflected in his son’s eyes. “It might start 
with the cats who fought for the Dark 
Forest, but who’s to say it will stop 
there? What if they decide it will make 


their whole Clan safer if they just drive 
the whole of WindClan away?” 

“Oh, be quiet!” Crowfeather 
snapped. “That’s ridiculous.” Inwardly, 
though, he conceded that Breezepelt 
might have a point. Bramblestar hadn’t 
been leader of ThunderClan for very 
long. How would he react if he felt 
WindClan was a threat? He might be 
quicker to start trouble than Firestar 
used to be. 

Crowfeather had lost track of time 
while he and Breezepelt had been 
searching the tunnels. Now he saw that 
the sun was going down, the short leaf- 
bare day drawing to a close. 

“We can worry about ThunderClan 
later,” he meowed to Breezepelt. “Right 


now, our main problem is that we 
haven’t found Nightcloud, and we can’t 
go on looking for her in the dark. We’ll 
have to try again in the morning. And I’m 
going to have to speak to Onestar about 
looking on the ThunderClan side of the 
tunnels. I think those are the only tunnels 
we haven’t checked yet.” 

Breezepelt’s only response was a 
grunt. Sadness rose up in Crowfeather 
like rain filling a pool. What he wasn’t 
saying—what he dreaded saying—was 
that if Nightcloud was alive, there had to 
be a reason she wasn’t coming home on 
her own. And if she was injured or 
confused, it would be easier to 
understand her staying lost on 
ThunderClan territory than being unable 


to find her way home from WindClan’s 
side of the tunnels. 

He glanced at Breezepelt, who 
stared at the ground as they walked. 
Down in the tunnels, he and his son had 
briefly grown closer to each other, but 
now that seemed to be over. For a 
moment he tried to find something to say, 
something that might help to heal the 
breach—but the words eluded him like 
wily prey. 

And now isnt the time to worry 
about that, he told himself. Not with 
Nightcloud still missing. Its been more 
than a day since the stoats’ attack. Do 
we still have time to help her, if shes 
injured? Or are we now just looking for 
a body? 





CHAPTER 7 
» 


~v 


“We're going to need a patrol,” 
Crowfeather told Onestar confidently the 
next morning, “but this time we should 
confine our search to the ThunderClan 
side of the tunnels. If Nightcloud made it 
out, that must be where she is. We’ve 
checked all the entrances on the 
WindClan side; we know she’s not 
here.” 

Onestar, who was resting outside his 
den, let out a sound that landed 
somewhere between a growl and a purr. 
He didn’t look pleased by this idea. 
“And you think ThunderClan will 


cooperate with this search?” he asked. 

If we ask the right cat, Crowfeather 
thought. He hadn’t forgotten Berrynose’s 
snarl when he’d dropped them off at the 
edge of WindClan territory. And he’d 
purposely approached Onestar without 
Breezepelt, so that the conversation 
wouldn’t shift to the confrontation with 
the ThunderClan warriors. “I think 
Bramblestar would,” he replied. 

Onestar twitched his whiskers. “Do 
you?” he asked. His expression was 
curious, and not entirely pleased. 

Crow feather hesitated before 
replying. He remembered his 
comradeship with Bramblestar on the 
journey to the sun-drown-place. The 
young leader had worked hard to throw 


off the dark shadow Tigerstar had cast 
over all his kin. Long before he became 
leader he had proved himself to be a 
brave and loyal warrior. 7 feel I can 
trust him, Crowfeather mused, whatever 
Onestar believes of him. 

“T haven’t spent much time with 
Bramblestar lately,’ he  meowed 
honestly, “but what I have seen makes 
me think that he is an honorable cat.” 

Onestar snorted and got to his feet. 
“Honorable cat or no, I don’t want him 
involved in WindClan business.” He 
avoided Crowfeather’s eyes, casting his 
gaze across the camp to where Oatpaw 
was cleaning out Whiskernose’s nest. 

But is it just WindClan business? 
Crowfeather wondered, remembering 


Kestrelflight’s vision. Whatever 5 
coming for us—the wind wasn t enough 
to drive it back alone. 

“Onestar,? he said, carefully 
choosing his words. Don't say “flea- 
brained”; dont say “flea-brained.”’ “It 
would be... foolish... of us to give up 
on finding Nightcloud just because we 
don’t want to involve ThunderClan.” 

“Who said we're giving up?” 
Onestar retorted, turning back with an 
irritated expression. “No, I don’t want to 
look on ThunderClan territory. But if you 
want to look elsewhere...” 

“But what if she’s on ThunderClan 
territory?” Crowfeather asked, 
struggling to hide his frustration. Jf you 
make Onestar mad, he’ll dismiss the 


patrol idea for sure. “It isn’t a matter of 
where we want to go. It’s a matter of 
where she is. We know there’s 
something wrong. Nightcloud must be 
injured, or confused. If she’d come up on 
the WindClan side of the tunnels, she 
would be home by now.” 

“Tt hasn’t been that long,” Onestar 
mewed calmly. “Don’t give up on her so 
easily. Nightcloud is a strong warrior. If 
she’s alive, she’ ll find her way home.” 

“Pm not giving up on her,” 
Crowfeather retorted, gritting his teeth. 
Why will no cat listen to reason in this 
bee-brained Clan? “Badgering you to 
find her is the opposite of giving up.” 

Onestar turned away now, in the 
direction of the fresh-kill pile. “No,” he 


said shortly. “I’ve heard you, but I won’t 
involve ThunderClan. Just be patient, 
Crowfeather. She’ll come home . . . if 
she’s alive.” 

As the leader strolled away, 
Crowfeather felt frustration gripping his 
heart like a rabbit ina trap. What if shes 
alive and can’t come to us? he thought 
miserably. 

And how am I going to explain this 
to Breezepelt? 

Later that morning, Breezepelt 
returned from the dawn patrol and 
strolled immediately up to Crowfeather. 
“When do we leave?” he asked. 

“Leave?” Crowfeather asked, caught 
off guard. He was finishing up a vole 
and preparing to take Hootpaw and 


Featherpaw on a hunt. With Nightcloud 
missing, Hootpaw was temporarily his 
second apprentice. The two apprentices 
tousled with each other in the grass, 
laughing and taunting each other. It 
reminded Crowfeather how close they 
were to still being kits. And how little 
sense they have. 

“To find Nightcloud,” Breezepelt 
explained. The irritated tone in his voice 
seemed to add “obviously.” “I was 
thinking of her when we passed the 
memorial stones this morning. WindClan 
lost so many warriors in the Great 
Battle. . . . Nightcloud must know we 
need her more than ever. If she were 
able to come back on her own, I know 
she’d be here.” He looked at 


Crowfeather urgently. 

“Ah.” Crowfeather swallowed the 
last of his vole and took a deep breath. 
“Well . . . I spoke to Onestar this 
morning.” 

“And?” Breezepelt asked. 

And he proved himself to be a 
furball, Crowfeather thought. But 1 
shouldnt think that of our leader. 
“He’s . . . reluctant to involve 
ThunderClan.” 

Breezepelt looked confused. “Okay. 
So?” 

“Like I said, we’ve already looked 
at all the WindClan — entrances,” 
Crowfeather explained. “And really, 
Nightcloud could find her way home 
from any of them, even if she were 


injured. Now I think—if she survived— 
she must have come out on ThunderClan 
territory.” 

Breezepelt looked blank for a 
moment, but then his eyes lit with 
understanding. “You think ThunderClan 
has her?” 

No, no, no! Crowfeather shook his 
head hard. The last thing we need is 
Breezepelt charging into ThunderClan, 
demanding his mother... . “No, but I 
think she may have come out on their 
territory and evaded their patrols. Or 
else she came out on their territory and 
wandered elsewhere, off any Clan’s 
territory.” 

Breezepelt nodded. “That makes 
sense. So what does Onestar want to do? 


Talk to Bramblestar? Sneak onto their 
territory?” 

Crowfeather looked away. He 
wasn’t sure how to tell Breezepelt the 
truth: that Onestar seemed to want to do 
nothing. 

“Crowfeather?” Breezepelt asked. 

Crowfeather’s eyes lit on Hootpaw 
and Featherpaw, whose roughhousing 
had gotten more intense. “You two there, 
cut it out! You’re not flea-brained kits 
anymore!” he yelled. 

The two apprentices disentangled, 
looking at Crowfeather with mingled 
embarrassment and amusement. 

“Sorry, Crowfeather,’ Featherpaw 
said. “Will we be leaving soon?” 

“Very,” Crowfeather replied. “Get 


ready.” 

“Leaving for where?” Breezepelt 
asked. When Crowfeather turned back to 
his son, he could read the 
disappointment in his eyes. And then his 
expression turned hard. ““We’re not going 
on any patrol, are we?” 

Crowfeather flicked his ear 
awkwardly. “Not today...” 

“When, then?” Breezepelt asked, 
taking a step toward Crowfeather, his 
expression challenging. “When exactly 
are we finding my mother? What did you 
and Onestar decide?” 

The tom’s voice was rising, 
attracting attention from the other 
warriors who were collected around the 
fresh-kill pile, chatting and relaxing as 


they ate their morning meal. Crowfeather 
saw Harespring look over at the two of 
them with dread in his eyes. Even 
Emberfoot, who’d defended Breezepelt 
in the past, looked concerned about the 
anger in his voice. 

They’re staring. Embarrassment 
prickled beneath Crowfeather’s pelt. 
And—as it often did—he felt that 
embarrassment turn into annoyance with 
Breezepelt. 

“We can’t just go traipsing over into 
ThunderClan’s territory,’ he meowed 
scornfully. “You know that, Breezepelt.” 
He lowered his voice. “Especially not 
when you practically start a battle with 
ThunderClan warriors the moment you 
catch sight of them! Don’t you think your 


spat with Berrynose and the others will 
come up the minute we ask for 
ThunderClan’s help?” 

“You think this is my fault?” 
Breezepelt exclaimed incredulously— 
and loudly. “I trusted you! I trusted you 
to speak with Onestar without me, and 
you bungled it all up! We’re losing 
time!” 

“I know,” Crowfeather hissed, his 
throat hot. “But we have—” 

Have to be careful, he’d meant to 
say. Or have to think of a way to 
convince Onestar. 

But it didn’t matter, because 
Breezepelt whirled away and stomped 
off before he even got past the first 
word. 


Watching him go, Crowfeather felt 
his embarrassment and anger fade into 
disappointment. He saw the other 
warriors watching Breezepelt too, 
disapproval in their eyes. 

But he’s not wrong, Crowfeather 
thought, turning back to collect the 
apprentices. We have to figure out a 
way to find Nightcloud—before its too 
late. 


The sun’s light was pure, blinding 
white, but the air was frigid, and 
Crowfeather’s, | Featherpaw’s, and 
Hootpaw’s paws crunched against the 
hardened snow that clung to some parts 
of the moor. The sky was pure blue, 
dotted with silver-gray clouds. 


“I can’t wait for newleaf,’” Hootpaw 
mewed as he and Featherpaw trailed 
Crowfeather. “Leaf-bare is the hardest 
season.” 

This  leaf-bare certainly is, 
Crow feather thought. And it has nothing 
to do with the cold or lack of prey. 
“Hard or not, a cat must know how to 
survive in all seasons,” Crowfeather 
replied. “So today we’ll focus on 
working together to catch prey.” 

He explained how changes in the 
terrain presented new challenges in leaf- 
bare. Snow that crunched beneath paws 
could serve as an alert system for the 
prey they chased—or, cats could use it 
to their advantage. 

“Lets try a new technique,” 


Crowfeather went on. “Hootpaw, I want 
you to wait behind this bush, where the 
snow is piled. When prey approaches 
the bush, you move your paws to crunch 
the snow—that will startle the prey, and 
itll run toward us. Then Featherpaw— 
it’s your job to surprise it and make the 
killing blow.” 

The apprentices eagerly agreed, and 
Hootpaw settled down, hidden behind 
the bush in the hardened snow. 
Crowfeather crawled into a small 
indentation in the ground to watch. All 
three cats grew silent. 

It seemed like a long time before a 
tiny brown mouse, fluffed up in the cold, 
darted into the bush from a nearby hole. 
Crowfeather watched, not making a 


sound, as Hootpaw’s eyes widened and 
then he scrambled to his paws, 
scrabbling them on the ground to make a 
satisfying crunch. Unfortunately, 
Hootpaw was so excited, or so cold, that 
he stood awkwardly and slid on the 
snow. As his paws went out from under 
him, Hootpaw fell on his back in the 
snow, making the expected crunch—but 
not in the intended way at all. 

The mouse was still startled, though, 
and began to dart back to the hole. 
Crowfeather turned expectantly to 
Featherpaw, only to find her doubled 
over with amusement, her eyes dancing 
as she stared at Hootpaw. 

As the mouse passed near 
Featherpaw, she made a halfhearted 


attempt to grab it, but her attention was 
still clearly on Hootpaw. 

“Pay attention!” Crowfeather 
snapped. 

The mouse slipped easily back into 
its hole. When it was gone, both 
Featherpaw and Hootpaw dissolved into 


laughter. 

“Pm sorry!” Featherpaw mewed. 
“Its just . . . Hootpaw looked so 
ridiculous!” 


Hootpaw, who was still lying on his 
back, shook his head. “It was an 
accident! The snow was _ so 
slippery. ...” 

Crowfeather got to his feet and 
stalked toward them, his neck fur ruffled 
with annoyance. “Do you think this is a 


game?” he asked. 

Both apprentices abruptly stopped 
laughing, looking up at him with regret. 

“No... mewed Hootpaw. “It’s 

just...” 
Crowfeather turned his attention to 
Featherpaw. “Do you think your 
Clanmates’ bellies will be filled with 
your amusement? Do you think a good 
warrior turns away from a hunt to 
entertain her friends?” 

Now Featherpaw really looked 
ashamed. “No, Crowfeather.” She cast 
her eyes at the ground. 

Crowfeather strode to a stop just in 
front of her. “You’re usually a good 
apprentice,’ he murmured. When he 
sensed Hootpaw shifting uncomfortably 


from where he stood, Crowfeather 
turned to him and added, “You usually 
are, too, Hootpaw. At least, I have every 
reason to believe that from Nightcloud.” 

Hootpaw swallowed and nodded, 
his eyes on the ground. 

Crowfeather let out a sigh. Am 1 
being too hard on them? Hootpaw lost 
Nightcloud, too. 

He nodded. “Right, then. Let’s try 
that again. Maybe we’re all just a little 
off today.” 

Or maybe it’s going to be hard to 
handle two apprentices at once, 
Crowfeather mused as he stalked back to 
the indentation in the ground, settling in 
and focusing his attention on the bush 
Hootpaw hid behind. 


Just one more reason we need 
Nightcloud back as soon as 
possible. ... 





CHAPTER 8 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather limped through the 
tunnels, lost in the darkness with no 
idea of where he was going. He couldn’t 
remember fighting against the stoats, but 
one of his paws was bleeding from a 
bite and several of his claws had been 
ripped out. He felt so exhausted that he 
could hardly force himself to put one 
paw in front of another. 

But I have to keep going. I have to 
find Nightcloud. 

Then Crowfeather saw movement 
ahead, though how he could see anything 
in this thick darkness was a mystery to 


him. At first he thought it must be more 
stoats, but after a moment he recognized 
that it was a cat’s tail, whisking around 
the bends in the tunnel, always just 
ahead of him. 

Nightcloud! 

But then he noticed that this cat’s tail 
was gray, not black. Then who... ? At 
last Crowfeather realized who the cat 
must be. “Ashfoot!” he called out, 
warmth spreading through his pelt in 
anticipation of seeing his mother again. 
“Ashfoot!” 

Summoning all his strength, 
Crowfeather put on a burst of speed and 
rounded the next corner. There she is! 
Ashfoot was sitting beside the tunnel 
wall where the passage widened out into 


a small cave. Her gray fur glimmered 
with a pale light, and her eyes shone as 
she gazed at Crowfeather. 

“Oh, Ashfoot,” Crowfeather 
whispered. Here in the tunnels, under his 
mother’s gentle gaze, he didn’t have to 
be the fierce, unapproachable warrior 
that his Clan knew. “I miss you so 
much. . . . But why are you here? Why 
aren’t you in StarClan?” 

“I can’t leave you yet,” his mother 
replied. “There are tasks you must do. 
You could lose everything.” 

Crowfeather scowled. “Do you mean 
Breezepelt?” he asked with a sigh. “Are 
you yet another cat telling me I have to 
work things out with him?” 

Ashfoot shook her head sadly and 


gestured with her tail toward the other 
side of the cave. Crowfeather turned and 
saw a pool of blood spreading out on the 
cave floor from a mound of black fur 
beside the wall. He glanced at Ashfoot, 
confused, but his mother said nothing. 
He turned and padded toward the black 
shape, carefully skirting the dark, sticky 
pool. His heart slammed into his throat 
as he realized he was looking at a dead 
cat. 
“Nightcloud!” 


Crowfeather woke with a gasp. He 
was lying in his own nest under the stars, 
his breathing fast and shallow and his 
heart pounding so hard he thought it 
would burst out of his chest. 


It was a dream... ., he told himself. 
Just a dream . . . It doesnt mean 
Nightcloud is really dead. It doesn’t. 

He lay still until his breathing settled 
and his heartbeat calmed, but he didn’t 
think he would get any more sleep that 
night. He felt too tense: He was 
worrying about Nightcloud, afraid that if 
she was dead they would never have the 
chance to settle their unfinished 
business. He wondered whether 
Kestrelflight’s vision of the flood could 
be related to Nightcloud’s 
disappearance. The clash with the 
ThunderClan warriors came back into 
his mind, too, and he imagined the whole 
of the Clan pouring out of the tunnels, 
just as Breezepelt had suggested, ready 


to attack WindClan. 

Across the den, he could hear a cat 
tossing and thrashing around. Breezepelt. 
His son hadn’t slept quietly in the short 
amount of time since they'd lost 
Nightcloud. Slowly, Crowfeather rose to 
his paws and gave his pelt a shake. 

The truth was, he couldn’t ignore the 
dream he’d just had. He was no 
medicine cat, but he knew it meant 
something. He also realized knew that 
Onestar was unlikely to approve another 
patrol for what he already felt was a lost 
cause—certainly not on ThunderClan 
territory, which was where Crowfeather 
meant to go. If any cat saw him leave, 
they’d likely stop him and tell him as 
much. Still, he couldn’t just lie around 


until morning, worrying himself into a 
froth. He had to do something. J have to 
go look for Nightcloud. And if he left 
now, he could survey the ThunderClan 
territory before the dawn patrol arrived. 

Crowfeather padded over to 
Breezepelt, avoiding the sleeping bodies 
of his Clanmates, keeping his head 
turned away from the empty nest of moss 
and bracken where Nightcloud used to 
sleep. His son wanted to find Nightcloud 
even more than he did. He’d want to go. 
But by the time Crowfeather reached his 
son’s nest, Breezepelt had settled down 
a little, and Crowfeather changed his 
mind. 

It would be unkind to wake him 
now. Besides, there will be less chance 


of getting caught if I go alone. 

Hesitantly he stretched out a paw 
and held it just above his son’s shoulder, 
not quite touching. He almost drew it 
back, but then he laid it on Breezepelt’s 
fur, murmuring, “It will be all right.” 

He was rewarded by seeing 
Breezepelt sink into a deeper sleep, 
though his ears twitched now and again, 
and he let out faint whimpers. 
Crowfeather left him and slipped away 
to the edge of the camp, waiting for the 
first light of dawn to touch the moor. 

As soon as he could make out the 
line of the ridge above the camp, and the 
memorial pile of stones, Crowfeather 
rose to his paws and slid silently out of 
the camp, stepping as lightly as if he 


were stalking a mouse. As soon as he 
was well clear, where no cat was likely 
to hear him, he picked up his pace and 
raced down the hill toward the tunnels. 

A strong drive to find Nightcloud 
gave strength and energy to 
Crowfeather’s limbs. He pushed away 
any thought of the risks he was taking, 
except to feel glad that he hadn’t taken 
Breezepelt with him. He didn’t want to 
expose his son to any more danger. He’d 
already been through enough. 

Am I worrying about finding 
Nightcloud because I want to protect 
Breezepelt? he asked himself. 
Nightcloud and I weren't on the best 
terms when she disappeared, but his 
life will surely be easier if I bring her 


back. .. . If nothing else, he won t have 
to beat himself up over losing her. 

He considered the question for a 
long time, but he wasn’t sure of his own 
intentions. He knew he owed Nightcloud 
a great debt, too. . . . Perhaps I need to 
repay her for the way things ended 
between us. Either way, he couldn’t 
leave her out here. He had to find her— 
dead or alive. At least then they’d know 
what happened to her. 

Crowfeather didn’t enter the tunnels 
on the WindClan side. Instead he skirted 
the steep bank and the dark, gaping holes 
as he followed his own scent trail back 
to the border stream. With every paw 
step he kept his ears pricked and his 
jaws parted to pick up the faintest sound 


or scent of the white stoats, but nothing 
disturbed the silence of the night. 

Every hair on his pelt prickled with 
apprehension as he bounded lightly 
across the stepping stones and onto 
ThunderClan territory. 

If the ThunderClan cats find me 
here, after what happened yesterday, he 
thought, then I’Il really be in trouble. 
Still, it would be worth it, if he could 
bring Nightcloud home. 

It was too early for the dawn patrol, 
but Crowfeather stayed alert in case 
there was a cat or two out for some night 
hunting. He slid furtively through the 
undergrowth, shivering as the frosty 
grass scraped along his pelt. He reached 
the tunnel entrance where he and 


Breezepelt had met the ThunderClan 
cats, but he couldn’t pick up even the 
faintest trace of Nightcloud there. 

His belly was churning as he moved 
on to where he thought he could find 
another entrance. He didn’t know this 
territory well, and every heartbeat that 
passed made him fear that an unexpected 
ThunderClan patrol would find him. 

The first birds were beginning to 
twitter as Crowfeather approached the 
next tunnel entrance, low down between 
a couple of rocks that jutted out of the 
forest floor. There he stopped, 
quivering. A tail-length from the nearest 
boulder he picked up a scent: faded and 
stale, but unmistakably Nightcloud’s. 

She was here. 


Hope sprang up inside Crowfeather 
at finding proof that Nightcloud had left 
the tunnels alive, that the stoats hadn’t 
killed her. Breezepelt was right. She is 
a fierce warrior. ... 

Then he saw a smear of blood on the 
rock. No! 

She was wounded, then... but how 
badly? If she escaped from the tunnels, 
why didnt she come home? For a 
moment Crowfeather wondered whether 
it had something to do with the way he 
and Nightcloud had argued, then gave his 
head a dismissive shake. 

Its not always about you, mouse- 
brain! he chided himself. Nightcloud is 
far too loyal to leave her Clan over an 
argument with you—she doesnt even 


like you. 

Forgetting all about possible 
ThunderClan patrols, Crowfeather put 
his nose to the ground and began to 
follow Nightcloud’s scent. It veered in 
the direction of the WindClan border, but 
from here she had a long way to go. With 
every paw step Crowfeather was afraid 
that he would find her body, but although 
he spotted more traces of blood, the 
scent trail did not disappear. 

Then Crowfeather came to a shallow 
dip in the ground, with a pool of water at 
the bottom surrounded by ferns. 
Nightcloud’s scent led down toward the 
water; flattened and broken grass stems 
suggested that she had fallen or slid 
down. He traced her path through the 


ferns, guessing that she must have been 
desperate for a drink of water. Maybe 
she was still there, waiting for her Clan 
to come find her! 

But as Crowfeather reached the 
water’s edge, his remaining hope 
vanished. A flattened patch among the 
plants that overhung the pool told him 
where Nightcloud must have lain down. 
Blood had soaked into the ground and 
was clotted on the fern fronds. And 
Nightcloud’s scent was almost drowned 
by the mingled smells around the pool: 
the faint, stale tang of dog and Twolegs, 
and the overwhelming reek of fox. 

Crowfeather shivered. Did the fox 
get her? Thats most likely. She would 
have already been injured, perhaps too 


exhausted to fight it off. He pictured the 
black she-cat, weak and wounded, her 
glossy fur matted with blood, turning on 
the fox with her teeth bared and her 
claws out, using the last of her strength 
in a desperate attempt to escape its cruel 
fangs. 

She was so brave... . She wouldn't 
be easy prey. 

Crowfeather bent his head to the 
flattened patch of plants and breathed in 
Nightcloud’s scent. He felt a sharp pain 
in his chest, as if every thorn in the 
forest were digging into him. She was a 
loyal WindClan warrior. We’re not too 
far into ThunderClan territory .. . she 
would have known where she was. If 
she were alive, she would have done 


whatever it took to get back to camp. 
Oh, Nightcloud.. . 

He realized that while he and 
Nightcloud had never loved each other 
as mates were meant to, he cared about 
her more than he had ever admitted. He 
admired her strength and her loyalty, and 
the way she had always protected 
Breezepelt. Crowfeather knew now that 
he had never appreciated what a good 
mother she had been. 

I wish I’d told her that... but now 
it’s too late. She 5 gone. 





CHAPTER 9 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather sat at the edge of the 
warriors’ den, forcing himself to choke 
down a vole. Memories of his terrible 
discovery earlier that morning—the 
blood-soaked nest in the ferns, and the 
stink of fox that tainted the air around the 
pool—took away the last traces of his 
appetite. But he made himself eat 
because he knew he would need all his 
strength for what he had to do now. 

Nightcloud is surely dead. .. . How 
am I going to tell Breezepelt? 

On his way back to camp, 
Crowfeather, still stunned by his 


discovery, had almost forgotten that he 
was trespassing on a rival Clan’s 
territory. Heading for the border stream, 
he had thrust his way through a bank of 
ferns and emerged into the open to see a 
ThunderClan patrol padding through the 
undergrowth a couple of fox-lengths 
away from him. Fox dung! 

Quickly he withdrew into the ferns 
and crouched there, peering out, 
convinced that at any moment his scent 
would give him away, and that this time 
he would be brought to Bramblestar. And 
Onestar will have my head. Then, to his 
relief, he noticed that all four cats were 
loaded with prey. Hardly daring to 
breathe, he prayed to StarClan that the 
scent of the fresh-kill would mask his 


own, just long enough for the patrol to 
pass him without realizing he was there. 

He was in luck—they walked by 
close enough that they ruffled the fern 
fronds where he was hiding, but didn’t 
spot him, didn’t scent him. Crowfeather 
had stayed there for many heartbeats, 
shaking from ears to tail-tip, until he felt 
fit to go on. 

When Crowfeather returned to camp, 
he was almost relieved that Breezepelt 
was nowhere to be found. For a few 
moments, at least, he could delay the 
inevitable. How am I going to tell him 
his mother is dead? Now Crowfeather 
spotted him stalking back into camp with 
a rabbit dangling from his jaws. 
Heathertail and Harespring were with 


him, also laden with prey. 

Crowfeather’s gaze followed 
Breezepelt as he padded across the 
camp and deposited his prey on the 
fresh-kill pile. His belly churned as he 
tried to decide what he would say to his 
son. 

I cant put it off any longer... . 

When Breezepelt had dropped his 
prey, he turned immediately to 
Heathertail. Crowfeather was close 
enough to overhear their conversation. 

“You have to help me,” Breezepelt 
meowed urgently. “I’m not asking you to 
go back into the tunnels, just show me 
how to figure out the layout. ’'m going 
down there again to find Nightcloud, and 
no cat is going to stop me!” 


“But, Breezepelt—’  Heathertail 
began. 

While Breezepelt was speaking, 
Crowfeather had bounded over to join 
the two younger cats, and now he 
interrupted whatever Heathertail had 
been about to say. 

“That wont be necessary,” he 
mewed gently in response to Breezepelt. 

Pain tore at him like a badger’s claw 
as he saw the hope flaring in his son’s 
eyes. 

“You mean you went? You found 
her?” Breezepelt asked. 

Crowfeather sought the right words, 
but for a moment all he could do was let 
his head droop, shaking it sadly. “I 
couldn’t sleep last night,” he began at 


last, “so I went out and looked for 
Nightcloud again at the ThunderClan end 
of the tunnels. But I didn’t find her. I 
caught her scent and followed it to a 
clearing with a pool. Her blood was on 
the ground, and there was a terrible reek 
of fox. I think . . . Breezepelt, I think a 
fox may have taken her.” 

Crowfeather had expected a furious 
denial, or perhaps a wail of despair 
from his son. Instead, as the hope died in 
Breezepelt’s eyes, the black tom seemed 
to shrink, drawing into himself. 
Crowfeather’s heart was wrenched at 
the change in him. 

“I don’t want you to blame yourself,” 
he meowed. “It wasn’t your fault.” 

Several heartbeats passed before 


Breezepelt responded. “No, I don’t 
blame myself. It’s their fault.” His voice 
was deadly quiet. “They killed her.” 
“Who?” Crowfeather asked, 
bewildered, unsure what Breezepelt was 
talking about. ThunderClan? Onestar? 
“The stoats. Those vicious mange- 
pelts in the tunnels.” There was a savage 
glare in Breezepelt’s eyes, and he tensed 
his muscles as if he could see his enemy 
in front of him. “Nightcloud was a great 
fighter, and so brave. The stoats must 
have hurt her badly, or she could have 
fought the fox, or run away.” 
“Breezepelt, Im so sorry,” 
Heathertail mewed, stroking the tip of 
her tail down his flank. 
Breezepelt seemed hardly aware of 


her. “We can’t put it off any longer,” he 
told Crowfeather. “We must kill every 
last stoat. After what they did to 
Nightcloud, they have to pay! I don’t 
care what it takes.” 

“Calm down,” Crowfeather told him 
sternly. “Yes, it’s terrible what the stoats 
have done, but they’re stupid, crow- 
food-eating creatures—hardly cold- 
blooded killers. We’ll get the stoats out, 
and prevent that horrible scene in 
Kestrelflight’s vision, but you mustn’t do 
anything rash.” 

His son gave him a glare as cold as 
the wind that swept across the moor in 
leaf-bare. “I dont care about 
Kestrelflight’s vision,” he hissed, “and I 
don’t care what you call them. I just 


want the stoats dead. Nightcloud was the 
only cat who really cared about me, and 
they murdered her. Pm going to make 
them regret ever laying their filthy paws 
on my mother.” 

For a moment Crowfeather was 
frozen into silence, stunned by the force 
of Breezepelt’s anger. He knew that he 
should reassure Breezepelt, tell him that 
he had a father who cared for him, too— 
but for some reason the words were 
stuck in his throat. 

Breezepelt was scaring him a little 
bit. Zs this how the rest of the Clan sees 
him? Angry and unpredictable? 

Before he could find what he needed 
to tell his son, Leaftail sidled up to them, 
a suspicious look in his amber eyes. 


“Did you just say you don’t care about 
Kestrelflight’s vision?” he asked. 

Oh, StarClan. 

Crowfeather wanted to tell Leaftail 
to leave Breezepelt alone, because he 
had just learned of his mother’s death. 
But before he could speak, Breezepelt 
turned on the tabby tom with a snarl of 
anger. 

“I dont care! I need to kill the 
animals in the tunnels. That’s the only 
thing that matters.” With a lash of his tail 
he strode off into the warriors’ den. 

By now more cats were gathering 
around, listening to the exchange in 
curious silence. 

“That proves it, then,’ Leaftail 
announced, his gaze raking across the 


crowd. “If Breezepelt were truly loyal to 
WindClan, he would respect his 
medicine cat. Every cat knows how 
important Kestrelflight’s vision was! 
How can we prevent the flood if we 
don’t work together?” 

A murmur of agreement rose from 
some of the other warriors, while the 
rest exchanged doubtful glances. 
Irritated, Crowfeather let his voice rise 
above the sound. 

“Don’t be such a sanctimonious 
cleanpaw. Of course Breezepelt cares 
about the vision,” he snarled. “But he 
just learned that Nightcloud is dead— 
that’s why he’s angry. How would any of 
you flea-brains feel if those animals had 
killed your mother? You think you’re so 


much better than him? Please! Give him 
time to deal with his grief.” 

For a moment the cats around were 
silent, exchanging shocked, incredulous 
glances. “Wait, Nightcloud is dead? 
How do you know?” Leaftail challenged 
Crowfeather. 

“I found signs she was gravely 
injured in the tunnels, and then she was 
attacked by a fox,” Crowfeather replied. 
“If she’d been healthy, the fox would 
have been no match for Nightcloud, but 
with her wounds . . . She must have been 
too weak. I just told Breezepelt, and he’s 
not taking it very well. You should all 
understand that.” 

Crouchfoot twitched his whiskers 
into a sneer. “Maybe Breezepelt is 


taking it so badly because he knows he 
could have done more to save his 
mother. After all, he was the only one 
with her in the tunnels.” 

Again Crowfeather could see that 
many of his Clanmates agreed with 
Crouchfoot, as they gazed after 
Breezepelt with unsympathetic eyes. But 
Heathertail’s shoulder fur bristled with 
indignation as she faced them. 

“I can’t believe you said that!” she 
spat at Crouchfoot. “Breezepelt is just as 
loyal to WindClan as any of you—maybe 
more. Like you said, he was with her in 
the tunnels, putting his life on the line for 
all of us—and where were you?” 

“I was on the second patrol!” 
Crouchfoot began indignantly, but 


Heathertail ignored him. 

Spinning around, she headed after 
Breezepelt, only to halt as Crowfeather 
stepped into her path. He felt a warm 
glow of appreciation at the way she had 
defended his son, but he knew 
Breezepelt well enough to see that he 
wouldn’t welcome any cat right now, not 
even Heathertail. “Give him some 
space,” he advised her. “He’s angry 
now. Don’t give him the opportunity to 
say things he doesn’t mean.” 

“Yeah, don’t bother,” Leaftail put in. 
“We’re all sorry Nightcloud’s dead, but 
Breezepelt can’t be trusted. There’s 
something dark inside him. He fought on 
the side of the Dark Forest, after all. 
Maybe he deserves all this bad stuff 


that’s happening to him.” 

Heathertail’s eyes widened in fury 
and disbelief. “You . . . you heartless 
flea-pelt!” she snarled. “How could you 
say that? He just lost his mother!” She 
gave a Single lash of her tail, then turned 
and ran up the side of the hollow and out 
of the camp. 

The rest of the cats watched her go, 
then turned to look at Crowfeather. 
Clearly, they were waiting to see what 
he would do. 

Crowfeather wanted to join 
Heathertail in speaking up for his son, 
but his Clanmates’ hatred of the Dark 
Forest cats hung in the air like the reek 
of fox beside the pool where Nightcloud 
died. He felt burning in the depths of his 


belly, and a lump in his throat that 
stopped him from speaking. 

Fighting on the side of the Dark 
Forest was wrong, but Breezepelt is 
still my son, even if we have never been 
close. How long can he be expected to 
go on paying for his past mistakes? 

He stood gazing at his paws, then 
gave his head a helpless shake. He knew 
that Breezepelt had been loyal to 
WindClan ever since the Great Battle, 
but it hadn’t done him any good. His 
Clanmates would always look at him 
with suspicion. Maybe he’s doomed to 
always be an outsider. 

Worry about Breezepelt threatened to 
overwhelm Crowfeather. His son had 
suffered more than any cat could be 


expected to take: the loss of his 
reputation, the attack by the stoats, and 
now the death of his mother. 7 don t want 
him to turn out even more angry and 
wounded than he already is. 

But Crowfeather had no idea how he 
could reach Breezepelt or comfort him. 
He realized that what he wanted was to 
go and discuss their son with 
Nightcloud. She would be able to 
comfort Breezepelt. But she’s gone now 
Breezepelt only has me... his father. 

A huge weight seemed to descend on 
Crowfeather’s shoulders as he admitted 
that he had no answers to offer 
Breezepelt, only more questions and 
doubt. And he had no answers to give 
his Clanmates, either. They were 


determined to distrust Breezepelt, and he 
wasn’t sure they entirely trusted him, 
either. Nothing he could say would 
change that. 

Slowly he turned and padded away 
in the opposite direction from 
Breezepelt. It was time to talk to 
Onestar, and tell him that Nightcloud 
was dead. 





CHAPTER 10 
» 


~v 


“Tonight, we will sit vigil for 
Nightcloud,” Onestar announced. “We 
will honor her as a brave warrior and a 
valued member of our Clan.” 

As soon as the sun had risen on the 
day after Crowfeather’s discovery of the 
place where Nightcloud had died, 
Onestar had called a Clan meeting. He 
hadn’t been thrilled to learn that 
Crowfeather had sneaked onto 
ThunderClan territory, but his anger had 
softened when he’d learned of 
Nightcloud’s death. She was a beloved 
WindClan warrior, and the leader was 


clearly sad to lose her. The loss felt 
even worse coming on the paws of so 
many Great Battle deaths. 

Every cat was subdued as they 
gathered around, and Crowfeather’s 
paws itched with restlessness. 

I want to be out there doing 
something, not standing here listening 
to our Clan leader. 

As saddened as he was by 
Nightcloud’s death, knowing that the 
stoats were still in the tunnels was 
worrying Crowfeather. He couldn’t 
forget Kestrelflight’s vision of the storm, 
suggesting that WindClan might almost 
be destroyed if they failed to deal with 
the threat. And he couldn’t stop thinking 
about how the wind hadn’t been enough 


to stop the flood. Does that mean we’ll 
have to involve other Clans? Is Onestar 
going about this all wrong? 

At dawn that morning, Breezepelt 
had tried to leave the camp, intent on 
taking revenge by entering the tunnels 
alone and killing every stoat he found 
there. It had taken five cats to hold him 
back, and finally MHeathertail had 
convinced him to wait. She’d told him 
they would take on the stoats, but to do 
that, they needed him at his full strength. 
He needed rest. He argued for a while, 
but eventually he gave in, and now 
Heathertail watched over him as he 
slept. 

But what happens when he wakes 
up? Crowfeather asked himself 


gloomily. How do I help him deal with 
his grief, without running foolishly into 
an ambush of stoats? He had no idea. 
He hadn’t even spoken to Breezepelt 
since he announced that Nightcloud was 
dead, and he doubted that his son wanted 
his support. 

“Now there’s one more task for me 
to do,” Onestar continued. “Hootpaw, 
Nightcloud was a good mentor to you, 
but she is gone, and you will need 
another cat to guide you through the rest 
of your apprenticeship. Gorsetail, you 
are a loyal and intelligent cat. I know 
you will pass these qualities on to 
Hootpaw.” 

A look of pleased surprise spread 
over Gorsetail’s face. “Ill do my best, 


Onestar,” she responded. 

Crowfeather blinked at the gray-and- 
white she-cat, not sure how he felt about 
this. On the one paw, he was relieved to 
be back to one apprentice—training 
Featherpaw would be easier now. But 
on the other, Crowfeather couldn’t forget 
that Gorsetail had openly mocked 
Breezepelt and said he couldn’t be 
trusted. It seemed wrong, in a way, for 
her to take over Nightcloud’s apprentice. 

Hootpaw was standing in the circle 
of cats, his head and tail drooping in 
dejection. Crowfeather knew he was 
grieving for his lost mentor. But when 
Onestar mentioned his name he looked 
up and gave his pelt a shake. As he 
padded over to Gorsetail and touched 


noses with her, he was clearly 
determined to do his best. 

Even though training two apprentices 
had been a challenge, Crowfeather liked 
the sturdy, enthusiastic young apprentice. 
Gorsetail isnt my favorite cat, but I’m 
sure she’ll try to be a good mentor for 
Hootpaw. And I’ll keep an eye on him, 
too—its the least I can do for 
Nightcloud. 

“Harespring, it’s time to send out 
hunting patrols,’ Onestar meowed, 
angling his ears toward his deputy. “But 
no cat is to hunt near the tunnels for the 
time being.” 

A murmur of disapproval greeted the 
Clan leader’s announcement. Crouchfoot 
called out, “Are we just leaving that part 


of our territory to the stoats?” 

“Certainly not,’ Onestar responded 
with an irritated flick of his tail. “But 
we've lost Nightcloud, and some of our 
warriors are still bearing wounds from 
the last skirmish. I intend to wait until 
every cat is healed and strong again and 
we've had time to figure out what to do 
next. Meanwhile, I don’t want the 
creatures provoked. If they think that cats 
aren’t coming back to fight them, they 
might get lazy and careless—which 
means they will be easier for us to deal 
with.” 

Crouchfoot shrugged and muttered 
something inaudible but didn’t protest 
again. 

Onestar declared that the meeting 


was over, and Harespring began to 
organize the hunting patrols. 

“Please, Harespring, can Hootpaw 
and I hunt together?” Featherpaw asked 
as the deputy padded over toward her 
and Crowfeather, who gave his 
apprentice a stern look. “That’s not for 
you to decide,” he scolded. 

Featherpaw didn’t seem bothered by 
his rebuke; she kept a hopeful gaze fixed 
on Harespring. 

“I don’t see why not,” Harespring 
mewed kindly. “Pll go and tell 
Gorsetail, and find a couple of other cats 
to go with you.” 

Crowfeather was just about to tell 
Featherpaw that an apprentice’s job was 
to do as she was told and keep her mouth 


shut, but he heard a low-voiced murmur 
from behind him. 

“T still think it’s really suspicious, 
how Nightcloud went missing in the 
tunnels. I mean, no cat was there to see 
what happened... . Well, no cat except 
Breezepelt.” 

Crowfeather felt his muscles tense 
and every hair on his pelt start to rise. 
He had recognized Weaselfur’s voice, 
and he flicked an ear back to hear more 
clearly. 

“Yeah, all that yowling and wailing 
this morning.” That was Leaftail’s voice. 
“Tt felt like he was just pretending. 
That’s suspicious, all right!” 

Shifting slightly, Crowfeather 
managed to steal a glance at the two cats 


without letting them see that he could 
overhear them. Weaselfur and Leaftail 
were standing with their heads together, 
surrounded by a few of their Clanmates, 
who were waiting to be assigned to a 
patrol. 

“Why is Breezepelt so sure 
Nightcloud is even dead?” Weaselfur 
continued. “After all, we only have 
Breezepelt’s word for it, and he was one 
of the cats who fought for the Dark 
Forest. Maybe he’s sure because he 
killed her, and he’s beside himself with 
guilt. How much can we trust him, or any 
of the Dark Forest cats?” 

Is he serious? How many times do I 
have to say it—Breezepelt would never 
hurt Nightcloud! It was all Crowfeather 


could do not to leap out at Weaselfur and 
confront him, but he forced himself to 
stand still and listen to what else the 
ginger tom might have to say. 

“Oh, come on, now,” Emberfoot 
protested loudly at  Weaselfur’s 
accusation. 

“Ridiculous,” Sedgewhisker agreed. 
“Hasn’t Breezepelt been punished 
enough, losing his mother? Must you 
now make these silly accusations?” 
When the other cats ignored them, the 
two of them turned away and padded off. 

Leaftail watched them go, then 
nodded in agreement with Weaselfur. “I 
don’t know why Onestar doesn’t just 
drive out the cats who trained with the 
Dark Forest. Wouldn’t that be the wise 


thing to do? Better safe than sorry.” 

Crowfeather slid out his claws, 
digging them into the ground. Why are 
these cats turning against Breezepelt? 
He 5 just lost his mother! And they must 
know that he would never have hurt 
her. Whatever problems Breezepelt has 
had with his Clanmates, he has always 
loved Nightcloud. 

Guilt gripped deep inside 
Crowfeather when he thought about his 
own recent distrust of his son. It seemed 
as mouse-brained now as these theories 
that Breezepelt had hurt Nightcloud. He 
foresaw, too, that more cats turning 
against Breezepelt could mean trouble 
for the entire Clan. If Onestar defended 
him, as Crowfeather expected, cats 


would end up taking sides, which meant 
that soon there would be a split in the 
Clan that would be almost impossible to 
repair. 

“I agree. Onestar should just exile 
the Dark Forest cats. I mean, I know they 
swore an oath of loyalty, but they’ve 
broken oaths before. Why take the 
chance and keep them around?” 

Crowfeather started at the sound of 
Featherpaw’s voice just behind him. He 
hadn’t realized that she had been close 
enough to overhear what Weaselfur and 
Leaftail had been saying. He was 
shocked that the rumors were spreading 
among the impressionable apprentices; it 
was bad enough that the warriors were 
saying such things. 


Before Crowfeather could speak, the 
reply came from Gorsetail, who padded 
up with Hootpaw at her side. “Because 
we are one Clan,” she growled, “and we 
forgive our Clanmates—even when 
they’ve made terrible mistakes. Now 
lets get on with this hunt. Larkwing is 
going to join us, too.” 

Crowfeather shot a grateful look at 
Gorsetail as together they chivvied the 
apprentices away from Weaselfur and 
Leaftail and up the slope to the edge of 
the camp, where Larkwing was waiting. 
He was glad to see that Gorsetail had 
chosen her; it seemed as if the gray-and- 
white she-cat had changed her mind 
about the Dark Forest cats—or most of 
them, at least. Maybe the responsibility 


of being a mentor again would do her 
good. 

Hootpaw and Featherpaw were 
padding along side by side. Crowfeather 
could see their fur bristling with 
excitement at the thought of hunting, and 
was glad that Hootpaw had something to 
distract him from missing his mentor. 

But it wont last long, for either of 
us, he thought sadly. Tonight they would 
sit vigil for Nightcloud, and there would 
be nothing left to do but face their grief. 


The sun had gone down, though a 
few streaks of daylight still stained the 
sky. Above the moor the first warriors of 
StarClan had begun to appear. 
Crowfeather raised his head and gazed 


up at them. 

Are you looking down at us, 
Nightcloud? Or are you still searching 
for the path that leads to StarClan? 

Cats padded past him where he 
stood at the edge of the warriors’ den, 
making for the center of the camp. 
Onestar was already there, waiting to 
begin the vigil for Nightcloud. 

Crowfeather glanced toward the 
dark shape of Breezepelt curled up in his 
nest. To Crowfeather’s relief he hadn’t 
made another attempt to head for the 
tunnels to attack the stoats. Crowfeather 
felt that he should try to talk to him, but 
he didn’t know how. 

Hesitantly, Crowfeather slipped 
between the empty nests of other 


warriors until he reached Breezepelt’s 
side. His son was awake, but he didn’t 
get up as Crowfeather approached, only 
looked up at him with dull, incurious 
eyes. 

“Do you want to walk over to the 
vigil with me?” Crowfeather asked, half 
expecting Breezepelt to snap at him and 
say he didn’t need an escort as if he was 
an apprentice. 

But Breezepelt’s actual response 
surprised his father even more. “No. I 
don’t need an escort, because I’m not 
going.” 

“Why not?” 

Breezepelt’s claws extended briefly, 
and he growled through clenched teeth. 
“None of these cats trust me.” His voice 


was bitter. “I’ve heard them whispering 
about what I might have done to 
Nightcloud.” 

So the rumors have reached 
Breezepelt, Crowfeather thought, 
swallowing his fury as if it were a tough 
piece of fresh-kill. 

“Not every cat,’ he meowed, 
remembering that several of his 
Clanmates had protested at Weaselfur’s 
accusations. “Heathertail stood up for 
you.” 

A pleased, grateful expression 
flickered across Breezepelt’s face. “She 
did? Really?” 

“Really. And I know it’s hard to hear 
your Clanmates spread rumors, 
Breezepelt, but the best thing you can do 


is hold your head high. You and I both 
know you haven’t done anything wrong.” 

Breezepelt blinked up at him, as if he 
was surprised at his father’s sympathy 
and support. For a moment Crowfeather 
thought he might rise to his paws and 
accompany him to the vigil. Then 
Breezepelt let out a long sigh. “I’m still 
not going. I just... can’t.” 

“Okay. I understand,” Crowfeather 
responded, though he wasn’t sure he 
really did. And a small part of him 
worried that Breezepelt’s absence 
would give more fuel for gossip. Cats 
like Weaselfur would assume the worst: 
that Breezepelt wouldnt go to 
Nightcloud’s vigil because of guilt over 
her death. 


Well, so be it. Those flea-pelts can 
think what they want. I won't force 
Breezepelt if he doesnt feel ready to 
face the Clan and the vigil. The Clan 
will just have to get over it. 

“PII speak for you,” Crowfeather 
continued to Breezepelt. “Pll tell every 
cat how much you loved her—and what 
a good mother she was to you.” 

“Thank you,” Breezepelt mewed. He 
closed his eyes, laid his head on his 
paws, and wrapped his tail over his 
nose as if he was trying to shut out the 
world. 

Crowfeather briefly touched his nose 
to Breezepelt’s forehead, then turned and 
headed for the center of the camp, where 
his Clanmates were already gathered in 





a ragged circle around Onestar. The 
empty space beside the Clan leader, 
where Nightcloud’s body should have 
lain, was like a yawning gap at the heart 
of the Clan. 

Onestar dipped his head solemnly to 
Crowfeather as he took his place, 
acknowledging his arrival. Crowfeather 
caught some furtive looks from the other 
cats, and he could hear them whispering 
among themselves. Some of them 
seemed angry, while others simply 
looked wary, as if they found it hard to 
meet his gaze. He realized they had been 
waiting for him to arrive before they 
could begin. 

Well, tough. Checking on Breezepelt 
was important. 


For a moment Onestar still hesitated, 
perhaps expecting Breezepelt to arrive. 
He shot a questioning look at 
Crowfeather, as if asking whether they 
should wait. Crowfeather shook his 
head, trying not to let his frustration and 
disappointment show. 

Onestar took a breath and began to 
speak. “Nightcloud was a strong 
warrior, and an important part of 
WindClan,” he meowed. “She will be 
truly missed by every cat.” 

Thats true, Crowfeather thought. He 
knew he missed Nightcloud as the 
mother of his son, and he was worried 
about how her death was affecting 
Breezepelt. But now he realized that he 
felt more than that. He would miss 


Nightcloud as a friend, too. He knew he 
hadn’t treated her well when she was 
alive, but he had always thought he 
would have the chance to work it out 
later. 

I guess it’s too late for that now. 

Crowfeather listened in silence 
while other cats spoke about Nightcloud 
and how much she meant to them all. 

“She’s one of the bravest cats in the 
Clan.” 

“And a great hunter. No rabbit can— 
I mean could—outrun her!” 

Crowfeather noticed that some of 
them were finding it hard to refer to her 
as if she was really gone. They're 
having trouble paying tribute to her 
heroic death when no cat knows exactly 


how she died. 

“She showed her courage when she 
went into the tunnels to attack the 
stoats,” Crouchfoot declared. “And 
when she was abandoned there—” 

Abandoned? 

“Hold on. Stop,” Crowfeather 
interrupted. Were some of his Clanmates 
really about to use the vigil to attack 
Breezepelt? He wouldn’t have it. He 
hadn’t planned to challenge any cat at 
Nightcloud’s vigil, but now that 
Crouchfoot had brought it up, he couldn’t 
just keep silent. That would make it 
seem as if he agreed. Its time to bring 
this into the open—especially now, 
while Breezepelt isn t here. 

“Are you accusing Breezepelt of 


something?” he demanded. 

“If we are, we have good reason,” 
Crouchfoot replied. “Why would 
Breezepelt leave the tunnel without his 
mother? How could he have left her 
behind?” 

“Yes, no warrior would do that,” 
Leaftail added. “Unless Breezepelt had 
something to do with her 
disappearance.” 

“That’s enough!” Onestar’s voice 
rang out commandingly and his eyes 
were glittering with anger. “I have told 
all of you, many times, that I trust 
Breezepelt, but you choose to question 
my decision—and at a vigil, of all 
places?” 

Murmurs of disagreement rose from 


some of the warriors. Crowfeather felt a 
prickle of uneasiness beneath his pelt. 
He appreciated that his leader was 
supporting Breezepelt, but would 
Onestar’s trust end in splitting the Clan? 

He remembered, again, how the 
wind in the medicine cat’s vision hadn’t 
been enough to drive back the flood. 
Maybe Kestrelflight’s vision was a sign 
of a threat from within the Clan. 

But Crowfeather had no time to think 
that through now. “All of you flea-brains 
are wrong!” he meowed, turning on his 
accusing Clanmates. “Breezepelt can be 
prickly, and I’ve had my problems with 
him, too, but I’ve never questioned his 
love for his mother. When she and I 
argued, Breezepelt always took her side. 


He supported her in any way he could. 
The two of them always took care of 
each other. He would never hurt 
Nightcloud,” he asserted. 

As he spoke, he realized that Onestar 
was staring at him with a mixture of 
surprise and approval. Fine, he thought. 
You told me to support Breezepelt, and 
now you ve got what you wanted. 

“Then why isn’t Breezepelt here?” 
Weaselfur challenged him. 

“Because he’s grieving, you mouse- 
brain!” Crowfeather snapped. “Think 
about it. Because he thinks he has no 
support from the cats in this Clan, and 
he’s right—you’re all accusing him of 
things he would never do.” 

“Not all of us!” Heathertail called 


out. “I agree that Breezepelt would 
never hurt his mother—or any WindClan 
cat. He’s a protector—he saved me 
when the stoats attacked me in the 
tunnels. I’ve seen how hurt he is about 
what happened to Nightcloud. You 
should all be ashamed of yourselves for 
spreading these rabbit-brained ideas!” 

She glared at Crouchfoot as she 
spoke, and Crouchfoot let out a snarl in 
return, his shoulder fur bristling up. 
“You only say that because you like 
him!” he cried. “And Crowfeather is his 
father. Of course you don’t want to see 
him as a bad cat—but that doesn’t mean 
he isn’t bad!” Several other cats let out 
yowls of agreement. 

Onestar raised his tail for silence. 


“Enough! We need to remember,” he 
began, “that whatever happened in the 
past, we are all WindClan cats now. Our 
unity 1s more important than anything 
else. I have forgiven Breezepelt for his 
part in the Great Battle, and I don’t want 
to hear another word of accusation 
against him. This is a vigil, and we are 
here to honor one of our own. It is not a 
time for arguing.” 

Every cat—even Weaselfur and 
Leaftail—seemed chastened by their 
leader’s words. An awkward silence 
followed, most cats staring at the ground 
or their own paws. Gradually the 
outward signs of hostility faded, but 
Crowfeather could see that beneath the 
surface the tension was still there. 


Suddenly he was glad that 
Breezepelt hadn’t attended the vigil. 
Even if the cats hadn’t accused him to 
his face, he would have felt their distrust 
and ill will in every hair on his pelt. 
Hes right to feel as though he doesn't 
belong, Crowfeather thought. 7 dont 
know what it would take to prove his 
loyalty to some of these cats. Maybe it 
isn t even possible. 

As the time for him to speak drew 
closer, Crowfeather struggled to find the 
right words. How do I honor 
Nightcloud? Perhaps these cats suspect 
my motives as well, he thought. They ’re 
all watching to see if IL mourn the 
death of a mate I never truly loved, or 
defend a son I barely know. 


But when Crowfeather’s turn came, 
the words were there. “We will miss 
Nightcloud,” he mewed simply, “and 
Breezepelt will always love her.” 





CHAPTER 11 
» 


~v 


It was a few days after Nightcloud’s 
vigil, and every one of Crowfeather’s 
muscles ached with tension as he padded 
across the tree-bridge to the Gathering 
island. He swore he could hear hostile 
voices in the lapping of the black water 
a tail-length beneath his paws, and the 
silver glitter of moonlight on the lake 
seemed to mock the darkness in his 
heart. 

This is far worse than going to 
Nightcloud 5 vigil. 

He wished that Onestar hadn’t 
chosen him to attend the Gathering, and 


even more that he hadn’t chosen 
Breezepelt to come with him. He isn't 
ready. Breezepelt had stopped using his 
every waking breath to declare war on 
the stoats, but he was still clearly 
grieving. He barely ate anything, and he 
seemed morose, unable to talk much to 
any cat—even  Heathertail. Now 
Crowfeather’s son was trailing along 
behind his Clanmates, enveloped in a 
fog of misery. When they thrust their way 
through the bushes into the central 
clearing, he stayed at the back in the 
shadow of a holly bush, looking down at 
his paws with a sullen expression on his 
face. Crowfeather wondered whether he 
should go and stand beside him, but then 
he remembered that Onestar would be 


announcing the circumstances of 
Nightcloud’s death at the Gathering. 

I shouldnt draw more attention to 
Breezepelt right now. I just hope he 
understands why. I dont want him to 
feel any more rejected. 

Besides, Crowfeather was still 
mulling over his dream of the might 
before, when he had met Ashfoot again, 
then followed her pale gray shape 
through the tunnels until he’d caught up 
with her on the banks of the dark 
underground river. 

“Are you. ..a ghost?” he had asked 
her. 

“I never thought you were a stupid 
cat, Crowfeather,” his mother mewed, 
dismissing his question with an irritated 


flick of her tail. “I’m what you see in 
front of you, and I can’t continue to 
StarClan until lve given you a 
message.” 

Crowfeather’s heart raced with 
anticipation. Can she really tell me 
something that will put this whole mess 
right? Can she tell us what to do about 
the stoats, or how to settle our 
differences with ThunderClan? Then he 
remembered what he really wanted— 
more than peace within the Clan, more 
than peace with the stoats, more than 
anything. 

Can she tell me how to help 
Breezepelt? 

“What message?” he asked urgently. 

But his mother’s response was only 


a single word. “Love.” 

“Love what?” Crowfeather spat out, 
hugely disappointed. Has death made 
her mouse-brained? How can she 
possibly think that love can help me? 
“Love is no friend of mine. I loved you; I 
loved Feathertail; I loved Leafpool. Do 
you see a pattern here? Every cat I’ve 
loved, I lost.” 

Ashfoot blinked at him, undaunted. 
There was tenderness and understanding 
in her gaze. “That shouldn’t have made 
you close your heart,” she murmured. “I 
wish I'd said more to you while I was 
alive, but this is my last chance... . 
Love.” 

“Love who?” Crowfeather yowled 
in desperation, but already the dream 


was fading, Ashfoot’s form blurring until 
all he could see was her gaze fixed on 
him, bright with affection. “Nightcloud 
is dead, and Breezepelt—” 

The brilliant light of a sunny leaf- 
bare morning had pulled Crowfeather 
out of his slumber, and once awake he’d 
wondered what he had meant to say in 
his dream. Breezepelt is beyond my 
love? Breezepelt wont be helped by my 
love? 

He’d closed his eyes again and tried 
to concentrate, to cling to the last 
remnants of his dream, but they'd 
slipped away from him like mist through 
his claws. His pelt was bristling with 
frustration as he gave up at last and rose 
from his nest. 


Now, sitting with his Clanmates 
beneath the branches of the Great Oak, 
Crowfeather felt his pelt grew hot with 
embarrassment at the memory of his 
dream. I’m glad no cat can see into my 
mind. They’d think I’m going soft. I’m 
not a medicine cat—that means my 
dreams are just fluff and nonsense, like 
any cats. But at the same time, 
Crowfeather couldn’t entirely dismiss 
what his mother had told him in the 
dream. It had to be significant, that he 
kept dreaming of her, when she hadn’t 
been seen in StarClan. .. . Could it be a 
vision? Could it mean something? 

As Onestar headed toward the Great 
Oak to take his place with the rest of the 
Clan leaders, Crowfeather glanced 


around at the other Clans. RiverClan and 
ShadowClan still looked wary after the 
tensions that had followed the Great 
Battle, while the ThunderClan cats were 
stiff and bristling, glaring across the 
clearing at the WindClan warriors. It 
made Crowfeather glad of the Gathering 
truce: StarClan had forbidden fighting 
under the full moon. 

When all four Clan leaders had taken 
their places in the branches of the Great 
Oak, Mistystar’s voice rang out across 
the clearing. “Cats of all Clans, 
welcome to the Gathering!” As the 
voices of gossiping cats faded into 
silence, she added to the leaders, 
“Which of you will speak first?” 

Blackstar shifted on his branch, and 


then announced, “Before we begin, let us 
remember the fallen.” 

Crowfeather caught Larkwing’s eye 
and could see the pale brown tabby she- 
cat was thinking the same thing as he 
was. Was any warrior keen to dwell on 
the terrible battle with the Dark Forest 
cats? 

But as the ShadowClan leader reeled 
off | names—“From ShadowClan: 
Redwillow, Shredtail, Toadfoot”’— 
Crowfeather could not deny he felt a 
strange sense of calm fall over the 
Gathering. It suddenly felt right that all 
the fallen Clanmates were remembered, 
their shared sacrifice honored. 

It took a horribly long time for 
Blackstar to get through all the names, 


but when he had finished, Onestar rose 
to his paws. “Thank you, Blackstar. I’m 
afraid I must continue this Gathering by 
sharing some sad news with the Clans.” 
He paused before continuing, meeting 
Crowfeather’s gaze for a heartbeat and 
casting a sympathetic glance toward 
Breezepelt. “Nightcloud is dead.” 

Yowls of shock rose from the crowd 
of cats in the clearing. Another twinge of 
grief for his former mate pierced 
Crowfeather; then his tension eased 
slightly as he realized that the other 
Clans felt grief for her too. Nightcloud’s 
prickly nature meant that she had never 
exactly been popular, but every cat was 
aware of her courage and loyalty. 

“How did it happen?” Mistystar 


asked gently, concern in her blue eyes. 

“She fought so well in the Great 
Battle.” Blackstar spoke before Onestar 
could reply. “It’s hard to lose her now, 
after she survived that.” 

“Stoats have come to live in the 
tunnels between WindClan and 
ThunderClan,’ | Onestar explained, 
dipping his head in acknowledgement of 
the ShadowClan  leader’s words. 
“Nightcloud—” 

“And of course it never occurred to 
you to warn ThunderClan about the 
stoats,” Bramblestar interrupted, a 
sarcastic edge to his voice. 

Mouse-brain, Crowfeather thought. 
You’ve known about the stoats at least 
since Berrynose’s patrol caught me and 


Breezepelt in the tunnels. Are you 
trying to make trouble? 

“I understood that ThunderClan 
already knew about them,” Onestar 
responded with a curt dip of his head. “I 
trust you’ ve been able to cope?” 

“We're coping very well,” 
Bramblestar replied, his shoulder fur 
beginning to rise. “We’ve doubled the 
patrols in that area, and—” 

“Bramblestar, this isn’t the time,” 
Mistystar pointed out with a whisk of 
her plumy tail. “Onestar was speaking.” 

Crowfeather saw with satisfaction 
that the ThunderClan leader looked 
discomfited as he subsided, digging his 
claws into his branch. /ts challenging 
to be a leader, isnt it, Bramblestar? 


“As I said,” Onestar continued, 
“stoats are living in the tunnels, and 
Nightcloud was part of a patrol that tried 
to clear them out. She never came 
home.” 

Very clever, Crowfeather thought. 
Onestar had told the exact truth, and yet 
he had managed not to mention any 
possible involvement by Breezepelt. 
That was something that WindClan 
would keep to itself. 

At least that was what would have 
happened if Weaselfur hadn’t sprung to 
his paws and meowed loudly, “Yeah, ask 
Breezepelt why not!” 

Crowfeather’s belly cramped with 
renewed tension. Must we do this at the 
Gathering? Murmurs of confusion arose 


from the other Clans. Harespring, sitting 
on the roots of the Great Oak with the 
other deputies, called out, “Weaselfur, 
keep your mouth shut!” 

“Why should I?” Weaselfur 
challenged him. “We all know that 
Breezepelt was with Nightcloud in the 
tunnels when the stoats attacked. Why 
was he the only one who got out alive?” 

Up in the branches of the Great Oak, 
Onestar was looking furious. 
Crowfeather knew how unhappy his 
leader would be at WindClan business 
being tossed around like a piece of prey 
in front of all the other Clans. They were 
at a Gathering! WindClan’s warriors 
needed to show that their Clan was 
united, not start spitting accusations at 


each other. 

Weaselfur, I wouldnt want to be you 
when we get back to camp! 

But it was too late for Onestar to do 
anything now. Cats of all the other Clans 
were turning their heads to shoot 
accusing looks at Breezepelt. Berrynose 
gave him a particularly intense stare, and 
Lionblaze was eyeing him with 
suspicion in his gaze. 

Spiderleg leaned over to talk to 
Graystripe, who was sitting beside him, 
and Crowfeather was close enough to 
hear his whisper. “So she was left 
behind while her son ran to safety. So 
much for loyalty...” 

Graystripe gave Spiderleg an 
irritated shove. “Shh, that’s enough. We 


don’t want to make more trouble.” 

Too late. Crowfeather craned his 
neck to find his son, hoping that 
Breezepelt hadn’t overheard that or 
anything like it from where he sat at the 
back of the crowd. But when he saw that 
Breezepelt had raised his head and was 
glowering at the cats sitting near him, 
Crowfeather felt as if he had been 
drenched in icy water. 

Of course he heard them. . . . He 
wished Breezepelt weren’t here. He 
knew it must be hard enough for him to 
put up with the scorn of his own 
Clanmates while he was grieving for his 
mother. What would it be like to suffer 
the scorn of all four Clans? 

Spiderleg exchanged a glance with 


Berrynose before rising to his paws. 
Crowfeather noticed that flecks of gray 
had appeared around his muzzle, making 
him look like a cranky elder, though he 
was still a relatively young cat. He 
raised his voice to carry beyond his first 
sneering whisper. 

“Our wounds from the Great Battle 
are still healing,” he began, “and not all 
of those wounds are in our flesh. It’s not 
unreasonable for cats to wonder about 
those who were treacherous. Some 
reparations have been made, but . . .” He 
shrugged. 

If I were Spiderleg’s Clan leader, 1 
would shut him up, Crowfeather thought. 
Ordinary warriors didn’t have the right 
to make speeches at a Gathering without 


permission. Had the Great Battle 
changed things so much, that even 
Gatherings were chaotic these days? 

But whether Bramblestar was too 
inexperienced to know what to do, or 
whether he wanted to hear what 
Spiderleg had to say, he didn’t interrupt, 
only listening from his branch of the 
Great Oak with an unreadable 
expression on his face. 

“After all,” Spiderleg went on, “I 
think most cats would agree that before 
the battle they wouldn’t have believed 
that any cat could betray the Clans as 
they did. But it happened. Who’s to say 
it won’t happen again?” 

“Thats right,’ Berrynose put in. 
“After we suffered so much betrayal 


from Dark Forest cats, nothing at all 
would surprise me.” 

While Berrynose was speaking, 
Crowfeather spotted Larkwing sitting 
alone in the crowd with her gaze fixed 
firmly on her forepaws. He felt another 
twinge of compassion for her; she must 
be finding it hard, too, to listen to these 
warriors who refused to trust the cats 
who had trained in the Dark Forest. 

Then Crowfeather became aware of 
movement behind him, distracting him 
from Larkwing, and glanced over his 
shoulder to see Breezepelt rising to his 
paws. Other cats were turning their 
heads to look at him as he leaped 
forward and charged straight at 
Spiderleg. Some of the cats instinctively 


darted aside, and those who stayed in 
Breezepelt’s way were thrust aside with 
powerful strokes of his paws. 
Crowfeather sprang up to intercept him, 
terrified that he was going to attack 
Spiderleg and break the Gathering truce. 

But instead Breezepelt halted in the 
middle of the crowd, a tail-length away 
from the black ThunderClan tom. The 
cats nearby turned around to stare, 
shaking their ruffled pelts. 

“If so many cats have a problem with 
me,” Breezepelt snarled, “they should 
say so directly, not prowl around it like 
little mouse-hearts!” 

Onestar gazed down at him from the 
Great Oak, lashing his tail in frustration 
and anger. “Breezepelt, stop now!” he 


commanded. 

But Crowfeather could see that his 
son wasn’t looking at their leader, either 
unaware that he had spoken or 
determined to ignore him. 

“I know very well what you might 
think about me,” Breezepelt continued. 
“But in my opinion, some warriors in 
other Clans are just looking for a reason 
to fight. Doesn’t that make them just as 
much of a threat to our day-to-day lives 
as the cats who once trained with—or 
even fought for—the Dark Forest?” 

“Oh, you'd like to pass the blame on 
elsewhere?” Berrynose sneered. He 
paused to lick one cream-colored paw 
and draw it over his ear. “The difference 
is, Breezepelt, that even after you found 


out what the Dark Forest was up to, you 
stayed with them. You were prepared to 
kill Lionblaze—prepared to kill your 
own kin! How can we just accept your 
word if you tell us that you’d never hurt 
Nightcloud?” 

“Because Nightcloud was the only 
cat who ever cared about me!” 
Breezepelt flashed back at him. 

Crowfeather knew his son’s answer 
was too honest and came too quickly to 
be a lie. He could see the hurt in his 
eyes, and his instant regret at revealing 
such a vulnerable part of himself to 
hostile cats without meaning to. 

At Breezepelt’s pain, Crowfeather 
felt a piercing within his own heart. / 
should have cared, he thought 


helplessly. J should have tried to 
understand earlier. Instead I let 
Nightcloud handle it all... . 

“There’s no way I'd ever want my 
mother to come to harm,” Breezepelt 
continued. “I was there, you weren’t, 
and I know what really happened. It 
wasn’t my fault that Nightcloud 
disappeared. It was the fault of the 
StarClan-cursed stoats that have taken 
over the tunnels! Why is no cat doing 
anything about them? Because it’s easier 
to sit here and accuse me? Well, fox 
dung to that!” 

He began to back away, then turned 
and headed for the bushes that 
surrounded the clearing. 

“Breezepelt! Where are you going?” 


Crowfeather asked. 

Breezepelt halted and glanced over 
his shoulder, giving his father one 
scathing look. “Back into the tunnels to 
kill stoats,” he snapped. “Since no other 
cat is doing it!” 

Spiderleg twitched his whiskers. “Is 
that so? Or are you going to eavesdrop 
on ThunderClan some more?’ he 
mewed. 

Breezepelt whirled to face the 
ThunderClan warrior, his muscles tensed 
and his claws extending. “How dare 
you, you man 7 

Crowfeather’s belly lurched as he 
saw that once again the Gathering truce 
was within heartbeats of being broken. 
Quickly he stepped between the two 





hostile warriors, breaking their furious 
glare. 
“Calm down,” he began. “This isn’t 


99 


Berrynose interrupted him, his voice 
ringing out clearly. “No, that’s a good 
idea. Why not let Breezepelt go into the 
tunnels and take on the stoats by himself? 
If he succeeds, he’ll have helped us all 
and proven his loyalty. And if he 
doesn’t, the stoats will make him pay for 
his treachery. Maybe StarClan is nudging 
us that way.” 

Crowfeather remembered hearing the 
cream-colored tom suggest that all the 
Dark Forest cats should be tested, to 
prove that their loyalties lay with the 
Clans. J used to think he might have a 


point... . But could that really be what 
StarClan wants? For the Dark Forest 
cats to risk their lives to show their 
loyalty? 

“Are you still meowing on about 
testing the Dark Forest cats?” he 
growled, reluctant to agree, even partly, 
with Berrynose in public. 

Berrynose faced him, undeterred by 
his aggressive tone. “That could be the 
only way to make sure of their loyalty,” 
he responded. “I haven’t changed my 
mind since the day we caught you 
WindClan cats spying.” 

“Great  StarClan!” Crowfeather 
wished they werent having this 
confrontation at a Gathering. If we were 
anywhere else, I could claw that smug 


look off his silly face! But I’d start a 
war if I did that here. “You dense 
furball! How many more times do I have 
to say this?” he meowed, twitching his 
whiskers irritably. “We were not spying 
on ThunderClan! We were looking for 
Nightcloud.” 

Berrynose shrugged, disbelief 
evident in every hair on his pelt. 
“WindClan promises don’t mean much to 
me.” Mutterings of suspicion came from 
many of the other cats around, while yet 
others remained silent, merely looking 
bewildered. 

Jayfeather, the blind ThunderClan 
medicine cat, was one of those who 
looked unconvinced by Crowfeather’s 
claim. Crowfeather wondered whether 


he really believed they had been spying, 
or whether it was all part of his usual 
hostility toward his father and his half 
brother in another Clan. As Crowfeather 
understood it, Jayfeather could even be 
hostile to the cats he liked, so it was 
hard to tease out what he was actually 
feeling. 

Where does he get that from? 

Now Jayfeather spoke up. “Spying 
or not, why did Nightcloud and 
Breezepelt go into the tunnels in the first 
place?” 

“I can answer that,” Onestar replied, 
to Crowfeather’s relief. 

Glancing across the clearing, he 
could see Leafpool standing beside 
Jayfeather, and for a moment 


Crowfeather’s gaze locked with hers. It 
was clear from the look in her eyes that 
she too was concerned about the rising 
tension between their two Clans. 

Even though its been moons and 
moons since we were together, I can 
still tell what Leafpool is thinking. 

“It was because of the  stoats,” 
Onestar continued. “And because 
Kestrelflight had a vision. Kestrel flight, 
tell them about it.” 

The gaze of every cat turned toward 
the young WindClan medicine cat. 
Kestrelflight rose to his paws, looking 
slightly nervous at the prospect of 
addressing the whole Gathering. “I 
saw ..., he began. His voice croaked 
as 1f he had a piece of fresh-kill lodged 


in his throat, and he cleared it before he 
continued. “I saw a great wave of 
water,” he mewed. “It swept out of the 
tunnels and drowned WindClan’s 
territory. Clearly it was a warning.” 

For a moment an uneasy silence fell 
on all the Clans, the cats exchanging 
dismayed glances. From the surprise 
apparent in their eyes, Crowfeather 
could tell that Kestrelflight hadn’t even 
shared his vision with the other 
medicine cats. Perhaps thats good, he 
considered. Onestar is so suspicious of 
the other Clans and their motives right 
now. 

Then Bramblestar rose to his paws 
and padded along his branch until he 
was visible to every cat in the clearing. 


His amber gaze was fixed on Onestar. 
“Does WindClan intend to share any 
information with ThunderClan?” he 
demanded. “This vision wasn’t just a 
warning for you. It affects ThunderClan, 
too, because some of the tunnels lead 
into our territory. Why wasn’t I told 
about this?” 

Onestar drew his lips back in the 
beginning of a snarl. “It was a WindClan 
vision to warn WindClan,” he snapped. 
“Does ThunderClan need to stick its 
nose into everything?” 

‘Pm not trying to meddle,” 
Bramblestar responded, obviously 
struggling hard to hold on to his 
patience. “But we need to work together 
to take care of the threat before any more 


cats get hurt. It seems to me that the 
vision referred to the stoats that killed 
Nightcloud,” he added. “Is that what you 
believe?” 

Onestar responded with no more 
than an annoyed lash of his tail, but 
Kestrelflight spoke up, with a respectful 
dip of his head to the ThunderClan 
leader. “Yes, that’s what we think.” 

“And you needn’t WOITy, 
Bramblestar,” Onestar meowed, 
contempt in his voice. “WindClan is 
putting together a plan to drive the stoats 
out.” 

“I am worried,’ Bramblestar 
retorted. “We’d noticed that prey had 
been getting scarce around the tunnel 
entrances, but we knew nothing about the 


stoats until Berrynose’s patrol rescued 
your cats from them. Sharing information 
would have been friendly, don’t you 
think?” When Onestar didn’t reply to his 
provocation, he went on, “I believe 
ThunderClan and WindClan should work 
together. Two Clans are stronger than 
one.” 

Crowfeather remembered his 
thoughts about the vision . . . how he, 
too, had wondered whether it implied 
that the Clans should be working 
together. It felt strange to agree with the 
ThunderClan leader over his own, but he 
couldn’t help it. He spotted Leafpool 
nodding in agreement, but a moment later 
Lionblaze rose to his paws. “How can 
we work with WindClan when I was 


nearly killed in the Dark Forest by a 
WindClan cat?” he demanded. 

Onestar gazed down at the golden- 
furred warrior. “WindClan has received 
Breezepelt back as a loyal WindClan 


warrior,’ he told Lionblaze. “I 
understand that you might have trouble 
accepting that.” 


“He’s only loyal to WindClan,” 
Lionblaze snorted, turning to glare at 
Breezepelt. “That doesn’t mean he 
follows the rest of the warrior code. If 
we work together, what’s to stop him 
attacking me again—or any other Clan 
cat who gets under his fur? He’s a 
menace!” 

Crowfeather had to admit to himself 
that not long ago he would have agreed 


with Lionblaze. But now he was 
beginning to see things from 
Breezepelt’s point of view. He felt as if 
claws inside him were trying to rip their 
way out through his belly fur. Sorrow 
weighed on his heart to see his sons 
facing each other with hostile glares, and 
he surprised himself by feeling a 
protectiveness toward Lionblaze, the son 
he never saw grow up. 

He had always told himself that 
Lionblaze and Jayfeather—and _ their 
sister, Hollyleaf, who died in the Great 
Battle—were not his kits, because he 
never raised them. But now .. . he just 
knew that he didn’t want to see 
Breezepelt and Lionblaze in conflict like 
this. 


Every hair on Crowfeather’s pelt 
was rising, telling him that this was 
wrong. Even though the two toms were 
not Clanmates, Crowfeather reflected, 
they were kin. Yet fate has made them 
enemies. 

Breezepelt’s eyes narrowed with 
fury as he stared at Lionblaze. “You’re 
right, but I’m not the cat I was then,” he 
responded to his half  brother’s 
accusation. Turning to address the rest of 
the Clans, he continued, “You can all 
believe whatever you want. I don’t need 
any cat’s help. As soon as I get the 
chance, I’m going back into the tunnels 
to kill all the stoats and avenge my 
mother—even if I have to do it alone.” 

Spinning around, he stalked back to 


the edge of the clearing and slid through 
the bushes. Crowfeather called after 
him, but Breezepelt ignored him. He left 
an uncomfortable silence behind him. 

Mistystar was the first cat to speak, 
giving RiverClan’s news in an attempt to 
continue the Gathering in the usual way, 
as if a skirmish hadn’t almost broken 
out. 

“Twolegs came tramping over our 
territory with a dog,” she informed the 
assembled warriors. “Reedwhisker and 
Mintfur tracked them, and they went 
away without causing any trouble.” 

But no cat was paying much 
attention, their heads together as they 
gossiped eagerly about Breezepelt’s 
declaration, and after quick reports from 


Blackstar and Bramblestar, the 
Gathering broke up. The air still 
vibrated with tension as each Clan in 
turn crossed the tree-bridge and headed 
off separately into the darkness. 

Crowfeather padded along the edge 
of the lake with Onestar and the rest of 
his Clanmates. Every time he thought 
about Breezepelt and Nightcloud, his 
anxiety swelled. He knew that if 
Nightcloud had been here, she would 
have been able to calm Breezepelt 
down. But now its up to me, and I have 
no idea what to do. His chest felt so 
tight that he could hardly breathe. 

Will this feeling ever go away? 


Back in the WindClan camp, 


Crowfeather was heading for the 
warriors’ den when he spotted 
Heathertail talking to Breezepelt, clearly 
trying to comfort him. His son’s claws 
were tearing at the ground in a fit of 
anger, as though Heathertail’s efforts 
weren’ t having much effect. 

Crowfeather veered aside to talk to 
them, when he heard Onestar calling to 
Breezepelt from just outside his den. 

“I need a word with you,” the Clan 
leader meowed, beckoning Breezepelt 
with his tail. “Come here for a moment.” 

Breezepelt hesitated, obviously 
reluctant. Come on, Crowfeather urged 
him silently. Don t make this any worse. 
To his relief, Breezepelt headed toward 
Onestar after a couple of heartbeats, and 


Heathertail padded after him 
Crowfeather followed, too, not joining 
the others but halting a few tail-lengths 
away so that he could hear their 
conversation where they clustered 
together outside the leader’s den. 

“I don’t think going into the tunnels 
alone is a good idea, Breezepelt,” 
Onestar began. “I told you, we’ll mount 
a proper attack once every warrior is 
recovered from the last skirmish.” 

Breezepelt, looking mutinous, was 
about to retort, but Heathertail stepped 
forward before he could speak. “He 
won’t be alone. P11 be with him.” 

Breezepelt’s head whipped around 
and he gazed at the brown tabby she-cat 
with a mixture of surprise and gratitude. 


“But your wounds from last time aren’t 
healed yet,” he protested. 

“They’re healed enough,” 
Heathertail told him. “And if I can’t talk 
you out of going, then you’re not going 
without me.” 

“But I need to do this alone,” 
Breezepelt protested. “If you go in with 
me and something happens to you... PH 
never forgive myself. And neither will 
the Clan. I want you to be safe.” 

At his words, Crowfeather felt his 
paws tingle with a mixture of pity and 
affection. It was an unfamiliar emotion, 
and it made him feel that he wanted to go 
back into the tunnels and fight on 
Breezepelt’s behalf. 

“Neither of you is going unless I say 


you can,” Onestar pointed out. His voice 
was sharp, but his gaze was sympathetic 
as he looked at Breezepelt. “I can’t 
approve one—or even two—of my 
warriors charging into those dark tunnels 
by themselves. I won’t send you there to 
fight, but—” 

“I need to do this!” Breezepelt 
interrupted. 

“Listen.” Onestar gave his tail-tip a 
single twitch. “I won’t send you to fight, 
but going to check on the stoats and find 
out where they’re living—and what their 
weaknesses might be—wouldn’t be a 
bad idea. It would help both WindClan 
and ThunderClan.” 

“Pd be good at that,’ Heathertail 
mewed eagerly. 


But Onestar had no idea how much 
time Heathertail had spent underground. 
“No, I don’t mean for you to go inside 
the tunnels,” he told her. “That will only 
provoke the stoats, and we’re not ready 
for that yet. Keep watch from outside, 
and see what you can learn.” 

Heathertail’s tail-tip twitched, but 
she didn’t object aloud. 

“You could go when it’s dark,” 
Onestar continued. “Tonight, in fact, if 
you have the energy.” 

Crowfeather gazed at his son, 
wondering if Breezepelt would accept 
Onestar’s suggestion, when back at the 
Gathering he had been so eager to 
slaughter stoats. He wasn’t sure that the 
black tom would be able to control his 


emotions. And how will Onestar react if 
he can t? 

Breezepelt and Heathertail 
exchanged a glance, then nodded. “We 
can do it,” Breezepelt replied. 

“The stoats should be out hunting,” 
Onestar continued. “But if there are any 
remaining near the tunnel entrances, you 
must not attack them on your own. It’s 
too dangerous.” 

Crow feather wondered again 
whether Breezepelt would object, but 
now his son just seemed relieved to 
have something active he could do. 
“Okay, we won’t,” he promised. 

Onestar nodded approvingly. “I’m 
not sure you two should go by 
yourselves, though,” he mused. “Perhaps 


you need one more cat. . . . Hey, 
Weasel fur!” 

The ginger tom, who had been 
heading for the warriors’ den, halted and 
turned toward his Clan leader. 

Once again, Onestar beckoned him 
over with his tail. 

Weaselfur padded up and dipped his 
head respectfully to his Clan leader. “Is 
everything all right, Onestar?” he asked, 
with an unfriendly glance at Breezepelt. 

“Breezepelt and Heathertail are 
going to keep watch outside the tunnels 
to find out what they can about the 
stoats,” Onestar replied. There was a 
gleam in his eyes as he spoke to 
Weaselfur, and Crowfeather realized that 
he was enjoying himself. “You can go 


with them.” 

Weaselfur gaped. “What? Go with 
him?” 

“Do you have a problem with 
obeying your Clan leader?” Onestar 
asked, his eyes narrowing. 

“No, but—” 

“Perhaps this will make you change 
your mind about making unkind 
comments during a _ vigil,” Onestar 
interrupted. “Not to mention blurting out 
information at a Gathering that should 
have been kept within this Clan. I had 
thought about giving you a moon of dawn 
patrols, but this will be better. And by 
the time you return to camp, I expect you 
to have learned that there are times when 
you should keep your mouth shut.” 


Weaselfur hung his head, his tail 
drooping. “Yes, Onestar,” he mumbled. 

“And since you seem to have a 
problem with Breezepelt,” Onestar went 
on, “perhaps it will help you to spend 
time with him, and work together on a 
WindClan task. In fact, Weaselfur, it had 
better.” 

Weasel fur nodded, looking 
completely crushed. 

“Don’t worry, Weasel fur,” 
Heathertail meowed cheerfully. “We 
won’t let the nasty stoats get you.” 

“Its not the stoats Pm worried 
about,” Weaselfur retorted in a low hiss. 
Fortunately for him, it didn’t reach 
Onestar’s ears as the Clan leader turned 
away and entered his den. 


Breezepelt didn’t look particularly 
pleased at having Weaselfur as a 
companion, but Crowfeather was glad to 
see that he had the sense to say nothing. 
He also needs to learn that there are 
times when a cat should hold his 
tongue. 

Crowfeather watched as the three 
cats turned and headed out of the camp. 
He could feel nervous flutterings in his 
belly, as if a nestful of blackbirds were 
trying out their wings inside him. His 
paws itched to join his Clanmates, but 
then he reflected that he couldn’t look 
after Breezepelt all the time. He had 
accused Nightcloud of being 
overprotective, and now it was 
important for Breezepelt to take 


responsibility for himself. 

Whatever they find at the tunnels, 
he thought, Z just hope it brings 
Breezepelt a little peace. 





CHAPTER 12 
» 


~v 


The yowls and screeches of battle rose 
all around Crowfeather. The air was 
thick with the stench of blood. As far as 
he could see in all directions, the ground 
was covered in tussling cats, and beside 
Crowfeather lay the body of his 
daughter, Hollyleaf, her black fur soaked 
in her own blood. Recognition tingled 
through his pads. 

This is the Great Battle! 
Crowfeather thought, realizing that he 
was dreaming. /ts exactly as I 
remember it. 

The memory grew sharper, even 


more painful, as he saw Breezepelt leap 
onto Lionblaze, catching him off-balance 
and taking him to the ground and raking 
his claws along his cheek. “You’re not 
as strong as I expected,” Breezepelt 
gloated. 

Crowfeather charged forward, 
hearing Ivypool pleading with 
Breezepelt not to destroy the Clans. 

“Lionblaze should never have been 
born,” Breezepelt told her. “None of 
them should . . .” 

Then his tail flicked triumphantly, 
spitefully, toward Hollyleaf’s body. 
“She’s dead; now it’s your turn, 
Lionblaze.” And then he bit into 
Lionblaze’s neck. 

Finally reaching his sons, 


Crowfeather gripped _ Breezepelt’s 
shoulders with his claws. “This has to 
stop!” he yowled as he dragged him off 
his other son. 

But then the dream changed. As 
Crowfeather released Breezepelt, and 
Lionblaze dived back into the battle, 
Breezepelt took a step forward, then 
turned to face Crowfeather, whose neck 
fur rose at the look in his son’s eyes. 
Before he could react, Breezepelt raised 
a paw and slashed his claws down 
Crowfeather’s face. 

Dazzling light, unimaginable pain, 
exploded inside Crowfeather’s head and 
faded, leaving him in darkness. I’m 
blind! Breezepelt blinded me. . . . Does 
he hate me that much? 


For a moment Crowfeather was too 
stunned to do more than crouch close to 
the ground, feeling a pelt sticky with 
blood pressing against his side. That 
must be Hollyleaf s body, he thought. He 
knew this wasn’t what had happened in 
the waking world. 

“Now you've got what you 
deserve!” Breezepelt taunted him. His 
voice sounded unnaturally loud, as if it 
was echoing inside Crowfeather’s mind. 
“For never loving your WindClan mate, 
and for choosing your ThunderClan kits 
over me. Why did you do that, 
Crowfeather?” 

Feeling blood trickle from his ruined 
eyes, Crowfeather couldn’t answer his 
son’s. challenge. J hardly know 


Lionblaze and Jayfeather . . . but I 
couldn't let Breezepelt kill my other 
son. Could I? There would have been 
no way back for Breezepelt if he had 
killed Lionblaze. But if Breezepelt can't 
see that, can there ever be any help for 
him? 

Dizziness swept over Crowfeather, 
and he felt the scene shift around him. 
The shrieks of battle faded, though he 
could sense that some cat was still close 
by. Maybe more than one, he thought, 
peering around uselessly through the 
black fog of his blindness. 

Then, gradually, the darkness 
Breezepelt’s claws had created began to 
lift. The forest swam into Crowfeather’s 
vision, lit by a gray, weak dawn. 


Standing in front of him was a muscular 
dark tabby tom. Even before his sight 
had cleared completely, Crowfeather 
recognized him by his powerful shape 
and brown tabby pelt, and at last by his 
piercing ice-blue eyes. 

Hawkfrost! 

This was the treacherous cat from 
RiverClan, the cat who had supported 
Mudclaw when the former WindClan 
deputy had tried to oust Onestar from the 
leadership of his Clan. The cat who had 
given Hollyleaf her fatal wounds. 

Rage surged through Crowfeather, 
driving out the pain in his eyes. /ts 
because of you, you piece of fox dung, 
that I’ll never know my daughter! 

Summoning every scrap of his 


strength, Crowfeather launched himself 
at Hawkfrost, but the sleek tabby tom 
simply darted aside, his scarred muzzle 
curling in contempt. 

Crowfeather charged again, and 
again Hawkfrost nimbly stepped aside. 
“Pm too quick for you, rabbit-chaser,” 
he sneered. “Give it up, before you make 
me angry.” 

Crowfeather knew his vision was 
still too blurred for him to fight 
effectively. Jt s a dream, he told himself. 
I cant really take vengeance for 
Hollyleaf s death. But his grief and fury 
propelled him forward to attack 
Hawkfrost one more time. 

Hawkfrost slipped aside with a 
disdainful twitch of his tail-tip. As 


Crowfeather landed from his leap, he 
felt his body slam into another cat. He 
lost his balance and fell, paws flailing, 
and looked up into the face of his son 
Breezepelt. 

Breezepelt stood over him, fixing 
him with an amber glare, pinning him 
down with his forepaws. “Why are you 
fighting for your ThunderClan kin?” he 
hissed. “What about your WindClan 
son?” 

Crowfeather tried to reply, but no 
sound came out of his mouth. Breezepelt 
drew back, raising one paw as if he was 
about to strike again. 


Crowfeather jerked awake. Darkness 
surrounded him; the moon had set, 


though he could see the top of the moor 
and the pile of memorial stones outlined 
against a sky that showed the first pale 
traces of dawn. Around him he could 
make out the curled-up bodies of his 
sleeping Clanmates and hear their faint 
snores and snuffles. 

After his terrible dream, 
Crowfeather’s mind felt heavy and yet 
restless. He was sure that he wouldn’t 
sleep again, and he couldn’t bear to go 
on lying still in his nest. His whole body 
demanded movement, but if he paced up 
and down in camp he would just wake 
his Clanmates. Instead he crept out of the 
warriors’ den and up the slope to the 
edge of the camp, with a nod to 
Larkwing, who was on watch. 


Outside the camp, padding to and fro 
on the frosty grass, Crowfeather could at 
last be alone with his troubling thoughts. 

He was missing Nightcloud more 
than he’d ever thought he could. And he 
couldn’t work out what he felt about 
Breezepelt. Sometimes he annoys me 
out of my fur, but at other times its as 
if—almost as if—I’m starting to love 
him. 

Crowfeather remembered too the 
curious sadness he had felt at the 
Gathering when he’d seen the animosity 
between Lionblaze and Breezepelt. 
They’re both my sons, even though 
neither of them probably wants me for 
a father. And I don't even know whats 
going on with Jayfeather. 


He sent his thoughts out across the 
moor to the tunnels, where Breezepelt, 
Heathertail, and Weaselfur would be 
still investigating the stoats. / hope 
they're all okay—even  Weaselfur. 
Crowfeather wanted to believe that 
Breezepelt genuinely meant to prove 
himself, though he couldn’t entirely 
banish the nagging fear that his son 
wasn’t the loyal WindClan cat he 
pretended to be. That one day his 
emotions would get the better of him and 
lead him into reckless behavior—or 
worse, down a dark path from which 
there would be no return. 

And thats what my dream was 
about, Crowfeather realized. Deep 
down, I still don’t trust my own son. I 


dont trust that he wont fall prey to 
some snake-tongued cat who can 
encourage him to give way to his bad 
instincts. If that happens, what 
difficulties could it cause for WindClan 
—or even for all the Clans? 

The thought knotted Crowfeather’s 
muscles and made him dig his claws 
deep into the earth. Why does everything 
have to be so difficult? For StarClans 
sake, we fought off the Dark Forest 
cats. So why do disagreements within 
the Clan seem to matter so much? 

Crowfeather was beginning to 
realize that outside threats like the Dark 
Forest could destroy a Clan, but it was 
emotion that would destroy a single 
warrior from within. 7 want things to be 


simpler, he thought. All this messy 
emotion only weakens a cat. I’d rather 
live my life without it. 

A paw step behind him distracted 
Crowfeather from his musing. He 
whirled, his claws at the ready, then 
relaxed as he saw that the newcomer 
was Kestrel flight. 

“Are you okay?” the medicine cat 
asked. 

“Fine,” Crowfeather responded, 
retracting his claws. “You startled me, 
that’s all. Pm sorry if I woke you up.” 

“No, it wasn’t your fault,” 
Kestrelflight told him. “T ve been awake 
for a while—and it looks like you have, 
too.” 

Crowfeather nodded. “I had a 


dream... ,” he began. He was reluctant 
to reveal the details, but a heartbeat later 
he found himself pouring out the story of 
how he had found himself back in the 
Great Battle, how Breezepelt had 
blinded him, and how he had tried in 
vain to fight with Hawkfrost. 

“Pm pretty sure it wasn’t an actual 
prophecy,” he finished. “But I can’t help 
feeling it means something. Maybe my 
mind is dwelling on cats like Hawkfrost, 
and that horror Mapleshade, because 
its... warning me?” 

“Warning you about what?” 
Kestrelflight asked. 

Crowfeather was reluctant to 
answer. He knew that many of his 
Clanmates didn’t trust Breezepelt, and if 


he—Breezepelt’s own father— 
expressed his doubts, he might make 
everything worse. 

But if I cant trust our own 
medicine cat, who can I trust? 

“About Breezepelt,” Crowfeather 
confessed at last. “ve been feeling 
better about him lately, and at the 
Gathering he vowed to get rid of the 
stoats, but I still can’t shake off the 
worry that he can’t be trusted.” 

Kestrelflight let out an amused purr. 
“I’m the medicine cat,” he pointed out. 
“Its usually me who gets the visions.” 

His words reminded Crowfeather of 
Kestrelflight’s latest vision: water 
pouring out of the tunnels, the wind 
driving it back, then fading away, 


allowing the surge of water to engulf 
everything. 

“When you had your vision at the 
medicine cats’ meeting,” he meowed 
thoughtfully, “StarClan must have been 
warning us about the stoats in the 
tunnels, but . . . surely the vision seems 
more complicated than that? Do you 
think there could be more to it? That the 
stoats are just the first problem we’ll 
face?” 

Kestrelflight let out a weary sigh. 
“ve been wondering the same thing, 
ever since it happened,” he replied. 
“The stoats could have crept onto our 
territory at any time while we were 
recovering after the Great Battle, but 
even so, they’re the sort of enemy that 


the Clan should have been able to deal 
with easily.” 

Crowfeather nodded. “That’s true. 
That skirmish shouldn’t have gone so 
badly. We should never have lost 
Nightcloud.” 

“That’s what makes me wonder what 
the vision of water means,” Kestrel flight 
continued. “At first I thought that the way 
the wind drove back the water meant that 
WindClan would win a victory, but there 
was a second surge, and no wind to 
defeat that. Does that mean WindClan 
will be defeated? And what will that 
mean for the other Clans? Will we have 
to face the teeth and claws of another 
enemy, whether that’s the stoats or some 
other hostile force lurking in the 


darkness?” 

“Pve wondered the same,” 
Crowfeather admitted. “Well, what the 
second surge means—and if it implies 
we should be working with the other 
Clans.” A chill ran through Crowfeather 
from ears to tail-tip as he considered the 
medicine cat’s words. He asked himself 
whether this hostile force in the darkness 
could be Breezepelt’s rage and 
bitterness, lurking within him. 

But the wind in Kestrelflight’s dream 
did have an effect on the first flood that 
threatened to drown their camp. Maybe 
that meant there was a chance of victory. 

And a breeze is a type of wind... . 
Hope and excitement warred with 
disbelief inside Crowfeather, swelling 


just as the dawn light grew in the sky 
above the moor. What if the wind in 
Kestrelflight’s vision didn’t mean the 
whole of WindClan, but just referred to 
Breezepelt? A breeze is a soft, weak 
wind, for sure, but . . . what if 
Breezepelt is to play a role in saving 
us? 

Could there be a better redemption? 





CHAPTER 13 
» 


~v 


J 


“Rear up on your hind paws,’ 
Crowfeather instructed, demonstrating 
the move as he spoke. “Then you can get 
in two blows at your enemy—one with 
each forepaw—before you land and dart 
away.” 

“That’s cool!” Hootpaw exclaimed. 

The sun was rising over the moor, 
though the grass was still white-furred 
with frost, and the air was crisp and 
cold. Crowfeather found the heaviness 
of the night before vanishing as he 
focused on the training session. He had 
agreed to take Hootpaw along with his 


own apprentice, Featherpaw, since 
Hootpaw’s mentor, Gorsetail, was 
leading the patrol that climbed the moor 
daily to visit the pile of memorial 
stones. So far, the session was going 
much better than the last time 
Crowfeather had tried to train the 
apprentices together. 

“Both of you try it,” Crowfeather 
meowed after he had demonstrated the 
move for a second time. “For now, just 
imagine your opponent.” 

While he watched the two 
apprentices trying to copy what he had 
shown them, Crowfeather reflected that 
a major onslaught against the stoats 
couldn’t be far off. Breezepelt and 
Heathertail were still checking on the 


tunnels. 7 hope they're all right. But 
Crowfeather knew that the rest of the 
Clan must be prepared for the next step. 
The apprentices wouldn’t be chosen for 
the first attack, but no cat knew what 
might happen after that. 

I want them to be ready. 

“Thats very good, Hootpaw,” 
Crowfeather = meowed, pleasantly 
surprised at how quickly the young cat 
had picked up the new move. He 
balanced well on his hind paws, and 
there was real strength behind his blows. 
“Go on like that, and you’ ll scare the fur 
off the stoats!” 

Hootpaw ducked his head in 
embarrassment. “I had a great mentor,” 
he reminded Crowfeather. “Nightcloud 


was smart and strong, and she taught me 
a lot about strategy.” 

Crowfeather hadn’t expected to hear 
such praise of his former mate, though of 
course Hootpaw, as her apprentice, 
would have been closer to her than 
almost any other cat, except for 
Breezepelt. Crowfeather had always 
known that Nightcloud was a capable 
warrior, but he wondered whether he 
had ever given her the due she deserved. 
There was probably a lot about her that 
I never knew. He stifled a sigh. And now 
I never will. 

“You're doing well too, 
Featherpaw,” Crowfeather continued to 
his own apprentice. “Just remember that 


99 


He broke off at the sound of 
distressed yowling from the edge of the 
camp, and recognized Heathertail’s 
voice. Turning swiftly, he saw 
Heathertail and Weaselfur at the top of 
the slope, carrying the limp, black-furred 
body of a cat between them. 

Breezepelt! No! 

Why wasn’t Breezepelt moving? 
Crowfeather’s belly lurched in terror. 

Why would he be hurt? Onestar 
made clear they werent supposed to 
engage the stoats. . . . But seeing 
Breezepelt’s limp form, Crowfeather 
knew that there would be plenty of time 
for explanations later. Great StarClan, 
he begged, please tell me he isnt 
dead. ... I don't think I could bear it. 


His mind flashed back to seeing 
Hollyleaf’s bloodstained body in his 
dream. Is that why I had the dream? 
Was something trying to prepare me for 
this? 

Crowfeather raced up the slope 
toward the returning warriors, spotting 
as he did that Weaselfur’s white paws 
were stained red with blood. 

Shock pulsed through Crowfeather’s 
body from his ears to his claws. Where 
did that come from? Did Weaselfur kill 
my son? 

Crowfeather stormed to a halt in 
front of the group of cats, his pelt 
bristling all along his spine. Breezepelt 
hung motionless between them, 
supported on their shoulders, a wound 


gaping open all along his side. 

“What happened?” Crowfeather 
demanded. Turning on Weaselfur, he 
added, “Did you do this to him?” 

For the first time Crowfeather 
noticed that Weaselfur was carrying 
something limp and bloody in his jaws. 
As he dropped it, Crowfeather could see 
that it was the body of a stoat, its white 
fur completely covered in drying blood. 

“Of course I didn’t!” Weaselfur 
snapped, his eyes narrowed in fury. “I 
don’t think I could cause this much 
damage if I tried.” 

“Please, Crowfeather,” Heathertail 
meowed, “leave Weaselfur alone and 
help us get Breezepelt to Kestrelflight’s 
den.” 


He 5 not dead! 

Relief flooded so strongly through 
Crowfeather that he had nothing more to 
say. He rushed to support Breezepelt’s 
hindquarters, and he and the others 
struggled across the camp to the 
medicine-cat den. 

“We were doing as Onestar said and 
watching the tunnels from outside,” 
Weaselfur explained on the way, “but 
when we saw so many of them leave to 
go hunting, we thought it would be a 
good chance to explore. We found the 
stoats’ dens and their prey-piles, and the 
entrances and exits they’re using. 
Everything was quiet in there, and we 
were on our way out before we scented 
stoats. We worked out they were in a den 


off the main tunnel.” 

“We wanted to sneak past, avoiding 
danger like Onestar told us to,” 
Heathertail continued. “But 
Breezepelt . . .” Her voice choked. 

“Breezepelt dived in there and 
attacked them,’ Weaselfur meowed, 
taking up the story again. “He killed one 
easily.” He jerked his head back to the 
edge of the camp, where he had left the 
body of the stoat. “But the other was 
fiercer, and fought back. It slashed 
Breezepelt’s side. He would have gone 
on fighting, but Heathertail and I forced 
him to retreat. He was losing blood, and 
finally he lost consciousness. So we 
carried him out and headed back to 


camp.” 


Crowfeather glanced at Heathertail, 
who nodded in confirmation of what 
Weaselfur had told him. “We both tried 
to stop Breezepelt,” she mewed. “But he 
was too intent on killing the stoats.” 

As she spoke, Crowfeather could see 
the worry in her eyes. Shivers were 
passing through her pelt, and she kept 
turning her head to lick Breezepelt’s 
wounded side. She must really care 
about him. 

More cats were gathering around as 
Crowfeather and the others approached 
Kestrelflight’s den. Shock mingled with 
gleams of interest in their faces. 
Crowfeather could hear muttering among 
them, though he couldn’t make out the 
words. 7 imagine most of them are 


hoping Breezepelt is dead. That would 
solve a lot of their problems! But its 
not going to happen yet, flea-pelts. 

Featherpaw had raced over to the 
medicine-cat den to alert Kestrel flight, 
and now the mottled gray tom emerged 
from the cleft in the rock and padded up 
to meet them. 

“Great StarClan!” he breathed out at 
the sight of Breezepelt’s injury. 

Crowfeather’s pelt prickled with 
apprehension. /t has to be bad when a 
medicine cat reacts like that! 

At once Kestrelflight pulled himself 
together and added more briskly, “Quick 
—bring him inside.” 

Crowfeather helped the others carry 
Breezepelt into the den and lay him 


down on a nest of springy moss. As he 
watched Kestrelflight examine his son, 
Crowfeather felt a new feeling flowing 
through him, warming him from ears to 
tail-tip. At first he couldn’t identify it, 
until at last he realized that it was pride. 
Breezepelt must have had bees in 
his brain to go into that stoats’ nest, he 
thought. But still, that was very brave. 
Breezepelt had been afraid of the tunnels 
since he was an apprentice, and 
Nightcloud’s death couldn’t have helped. 
It would have taken real courage to face 
his fears and attack the stoats. 
Kestrelflight rose from where he had 
been crouching beside  Breezepelt, 
licking his wound clean, and turned to 
Crowfeather. “His injuries are serious,” 


he reported, “but you can see that 
already. He’ll need watching carefully.” 

Crowfeather’s belly roiled at the 
medicine cat’s words. Surely I’m not 
going to lose my son just as I’m 
beginning to understand him? 

“I can stay with him,” Heathertail 
offered immediately. 

Crowfeather shook his head. 
“Thanks, Heathertail,’” he meowed, “but 
I want to watch over my son—at least 
for now. Will you go and tell Onestar 
what happened, and take the stoat to 
show him?” 

Heathertail hesitated, casting an 
uncertain glance at  Breezepelt. 
Crowfeather could tell that she wanted 
to stay with him. 


“PII call you when he wakes,” he 
promised the young she-cat. “But for 
now it’s important for Onestar to know 
what we’ re up against.” 

“I understand.” Giving her pelt a 
shake, Heathertail left the den. 

While Kestrelflight headed to his 
herb store at the back of the den, 
Crowfeather found himself standing 
beside Weaselfur. The ginger tom’s head 
was lowered, his expression hard to 
read. Crowfeather’s pelt prickled with 
the awkwardness of the moment, 
remembering what he had said when 
Weaselfur first appeared. “I’m sorry I 
accused you of attacking Breezepelt,” he 
muttered after a moment. 

“Its okay,” Weaselfur responded, his 


lack of anger surprising Crowfeather. 
“You had your reasons, after everything I 
said about your son. But when I saw 
how brave he was, going after those 
stoats, I knew there was no way he could 
have had anything to do with 
Nightcloud’s death. Pm sorry I said 
that.” 

Crowfeather felt even more 
awkward, giving his shoulder an 
embarrassed lick. “You should 
apologize to Breezepelt when he wakes 
up,” he mewed. 

Weaselfur nodded. “Ill do that. Pm 
still not entirely sure Onestar should 
have let Breezepelt back into the Clan 
after the Great Battle, but—about this—I 
can give him the benefit of the doubt. He 


really did fight for us today.” 

Crowfeather was disappointed to 
hear that Weaselfur still did not entirely 
trust his son. But at least he’s willing to 
give Breezepelt a chance, Crowfeather 
thought. Thats a start. 

“Thanks for bringing him home,” he 
meowed. 

“It was the least I could do,” 
Weaselfur responded, then headed off 
toward the warriors’ den with a nod of 
farewell. 

Crowfeather stepped back while 
Kestrelflight chewed horsetail into a 
poultice and plastered it over 
Breezepelt’s wound, fastening it in place 
with a thick wad of cobweb. 

“That should help,” the medicine cat 


mewed, gazing thoughtfully down at 
Breezepelt. “At least the bleeding seems 
to have stopped. Can you watch him for 
a while? I need to report to Onestar.” 

When Kestrelflight was gone, 
Crowfeather settled down beside 
Breezepelt, listening to his labored 
breathing. He could smell the tang of 
dried blood still matted in his son’s fur. 
For a few moments he felt as if he were 
back beside the sun-drown-water and a 
huge wave was crashing over him, 
overwhelming him with its power. 

But it wasn’t a wave that was doing 
this to Crowfeather. It was seeing 
Breezepelt injured, and knowing that 
Nightcloud was already dead. 

Crowfeather leaned toward him, but 


before he could get close enough to 
whisper in his ear, Breezepelt’s eyelids 
slowly eased open. Crowfeather felt a 
rush of relief that he had regained 
consciousness, but when he looked into 
his son’s eyes, all he could see was 
pain. 

Breezepelt blinked a few times, then 
focused his gaze on Crowfeather. “I 
killed the stoat, and Nightcloud is still 
dead,’ he whispered miserably. 
Crowfeather’s heart almost broke with 
sadness as his son added, “I should 
never have left her in the tunnels in the 
first place.” 

“Don’t talk now,” Crowfeather told 
him gently. “You need to rest. I’m sorry 
about what you’ve been through, but we 


will avenge your mother, I promise you.” 
When Breezepelt looked unconvinced, 
he added, “If there’s a battle ahead, 
WindClan will need a warrior as bold 
and strong as you.” 

Breezepelt’s eyes widened, and he 
fixed Crowfeather with an incredulous 
amber gaze. He remained silent, but that 
look seemed to be asking, /s it really my 
father, Crowfeather, telling me this? 

Crowfeather cleared his throat, 
embarrassed. “Ill fetch you some prey 
to help you regain your strength,” he 
meowed. “I'll be right back.” 

Outside the medicine-cat den, 
Crowfeather found Heathertail hovering 
with Featherpaw and Hootpaw. 

“How is Breezepelt?” Heathertail 


asked anxiously. 

“He’s awake,” Crowfeather replied, 
seeing Heathertail’s blue eyes grow 
brilliant with relief. “But he needs to 
rest. In the meantime, all the Clan should 
get ready.” 

“Ready for what?” Hootpaw asked, 
flicking his tail straight up in the air. 

“To fight,” Crowfeather meowed. 





CHAPTER 14 
» 


~v 


“Certainly not,” Harespring meowed, 
with a stern look at all four apprentices. 
“Onestar has ordered that no apprentices 
are going to be in the battle with the 
stoats.” 

“But WindClan needs every cat!” 
Hootpaw protested, looking up at the 
Clan deputy with pleading eyes. 

“WindClan needs every warrior,” 
Harespring corrected him. 

“Not fair,” Slightpaw muttered. 

Crowfeather gave an irritated twitch 
of his whiskers. They were already 
wasting valuable practice time while the 


apprentices argued that they should be 
allowed to take part in the battle. 

“We could let them join in the 
training,” he suggested to Harespring. 
Maybe that will shut them up. “After 
all, it’s possible the stoats will attack the 
camp. The apprentices should be able to 
defend themselves and the elders, and 
any cats who might be in the medicine 
cat den.” 

Featherpaw bounced gently on her 
paws with a gleam of excitement in her 
eyes. “Oh, yes, please, Harespring!” 

The Clan deputy hesitated for a 
moment, then nodded. “I suppose it 
won’t do any harm,” he decided. “You 
can be responsible for them, 
Crowfeather.” 


Thanks a bunch. 

But Crowfeather had to admit to 
himself that he didn’t mind working with 
the apprentices. They were all shaping 
up to be fine warriors. Especially 
Hootpaw, he thought as he paired them 
up to practice the battle move he had 
taught Hootpaw and Featherpaw a few 
days before. Nightcloud taught him 
well, Crowfeather thought, with a 
renewed pang at how much he missed 
her, and now Gorsetail is doing a good 
job, too. She’ll have an easier time 
because Nightcloud started Hootpaw 
off so well. 

Thinking about Hootpaw made 
Crowfeather pay more attention to his 
own apprentice. Featherpaw had learned 


the move well; she had good balance 
while she stood on her hind paws and 
attacked her opponent with her 
forepaws. But she was slightly hesitant, 
as if she was afraid of hurting her 
Clanmate, while the rest of the 
apprentices piled in enthusiastically. 

“Be bold!” Crowfeather advised her. 
“And strike out faster. In a real battle, 
your enemy won’t wait for you.” 

Featherpaw nodded vigorously, then 
returned to her practice with Oatpaw. 
Crowfeather watched with approval as 
she put more speed and strength into her 
blows, knocking Oatpaw to the ground 
and then leaping on top of him with a 
yowl of triumph. 

“Well done!” Crowfeather praised 


her. 

Almost the whole of WindClan had 
assembled on a flat stretch of moorland 
near the camp, for a training session to 
prepare for battle. Using the information 
Breezepelt, Heathertail, and Weaselfur 
had brought back, Onestar and 
Harespring had made a plan: Some cats 
were to go into the tunnels and drive the 
stoats toward the entrances, while others 
would wait in ambush to attack when the 
stoats appeared. Prey would be left near 
the entrances to lure the stoats into the 
open. 

It should work, Crowfeather thought. 
And maybe we'll be able to get rid of 
these StarClan-cursed creatures for 
good! 


“Okay,” Crowfeather meowed to the 
apprentices when they had all practiced 
the move for some time, “‘you’ve gotten 
in a couple of good blows, yow’ ve 
darted back out of range, so what are 
you going to do now? Sit and sniff the 
flowers?” 

“Attack again!” Hootpaw yowled, 
while Featherpaw curled her tail up in 
amusement. 

“Right,” Crowfeather responded. 
“But your enemy won’t be sniffing the 
flowers, either. They'll be coming for 
you, so you need to do something 
unexpected. Any ideas?” 

“Claw their throat out!” Slightpaw 
snarled, raising one forepaw with claws 
extended. 


“You could try,” Crowfeather 
agreed, privately reflecting that it wasn’t 
as easy as that. “Anything else?” 

“Attack from behind?” Featherpaw 
suggested. 

“Good idea,” Crowfeather 
responded, pleased by his apprentice’s 
intelligence. “Let’s try that. Practice the 
first move, then follow it up by attacking 
your opponent’s hindquarters. And 
remember, Featherpaw, be bold!” 

“But remember too how dangerous 
your enemy is.” Breezepelt’s voice came 
from just behind Crowfeather. ““You need 
to be careful.” 

Crowfeather realized that Breezepelt 
had padded up beside him. In the few 
days since his expedition into the 


tunnels, he had mostly recovered from 
his injuries, but Crowfeather felt that the 
fire inside him had gone out. He 5 finally 
realized that his mother is gone forever. 
Seeing the sadness in his son’s eyes, 
Crowfeather firmly stifled his annoyance 
that Breezepelt had interrupted his 
training session. He was determined not 
to start any more arguments with him. 
“That’s right,” he agreed. “In a real 
battle, no unnecessary risks.” 
Crowfeather was aware of 
Breezepelt standing beside him as the 
apprentices began practicing again. He 
hadn’t joined in the training session; 
instead he had limped along the edge of 
the practice area, his gait slow and 
careful, his tail trailing along the ground. 


Now they were standing so close that 
they must have seemed comfortable with 
each other, though Crowfeather knew 
that wasn’t true. He could hardly bring 
himself to look at his son and see his 
dull, lifeless eyes. 

Crowfeather believed that most of 
the Clan was feeling sorry for 
Breezepelt, as he was. Then he spotted 
Leaftail and Gorsetail with their heads 
together a couple of tail-lengths away. 
Leaftail’s eyes sparkled with mockery. 

“He’s supposed to be some scary 
Dark Forest warrior,” he whispered to 
Gorsetail. Clearly, he had been 
eavesdropping on Breezepelt’s advice to 
the apprentices to be careful. “Sounds 
more like a mouse-hearted cat to me.” 


Crowfeather saw Breezepelt freeze 
as he overheard the snarky comment. His 
eyes lit with fury, as if he would have 
liked to fight both cats at the same time. 

“It’s great that you have time to 
gossip,” Crowfeather hissed, glaring at 
Leaftail. “And that you’re not worried 
about these stoats that were foretold to 
destroy the whole Clan. Now shut up 
and get back to work.” 

Leaftail opened his jaws as if he was 
going to make a rude retort, but 
Gorsetail gave him a nudge, and both 
cats bounded away. Crowfeather kept an 
eye on them until he saw them beginning 
to practice the leap-and-roll battle 
move. 

“Ignore what they're saying,” he 


mewed softly to Breezepelt. “They have 
no idea what you went through. They 
don’t know what a great warrior you can 
be.” 

Breezepelt had a grim, determined 
look on his face. “Well, they’re going to 
find out,’ he meowed. “I’m going to 
prove it in the battle today.” 

Crowfeather was startled. “You’re 
not back to battle fitness yet!” he blurted 
out. 

“Fox dung to that,’ Breezepelt 
growled. 

Crowfeather wanted to talk 
Breezepelt out of joining in the attack on 
the tunnels, but Breezepelt’s expression, 
the intense tone of his voice, told him 
there would be no point in trying. 


At least this time IIl be there to 
watch his back, Crowfeather thought. 
And this time I don't intend to let him 
down. 


Sunhigh was still some way off when 
the WindClan cats set out for the tunnels. 
Harespring was in the lead, with 
Crowfeather and Weaselfur, while the 
rest of the warriors streamed across the 
moor behind them. Breezepelt lagged at 
the rear, still limping from his injuries, 
but managing to keep up. Crowfeather 
had tried keeping an eye on him, until 
Breezepelt had realized it and fixed him 
with an irritated glare. 

“Are you sure about this?” 
Crowfeather heard Heathertail asking 


Breezepelt, padding at his side. 

“Yeah, you know how tough the 
stoats are,” Emberfoot added. 

“I’m quite sure,” Breezepelt retorted 
through clenched teeth. 

Before they set out, Heathertail had 
talked to the apprentices about what had 
happened in the tunnels, making it clear 
that the coming battle was beyond their 
skills. Crowfeather suspected that 
Breezepelt had asked her to do it. After 
her talk, the apprentices seemed to have 
gained new respect for the enemy their 
Clan was about to face. 

“How big do you think they are?” 
Hootpaw had asked his denmates, 
fluffing up his fur to increase his own 
size. “As big as this?” 


“Much bigger!’ Slightpaw had 
responded, wide-eyed. 

“And I bet they have really long 
claws and teeth,’ Featherpaw had 
added. “Breezepelt was so brave to fight 
them all by himself.” 

Crowfeather, listening with 
amusement to their speculations, had 
given a nod of approval. Finally! 

Now, as the Clan came within sight 
of the steep bank where the tunnel 
entrances gaped open, Harespring called 
a halt and gathered his Clanmates around 
him. 

“Pll just remind you about what 
we're going to do,” he began. “III enter 
the tunnels with Heathertail and 
Weasel fur.” 


Crowfeather shifted his paws 
impatiently. He had volunteered to join 
the group that was to go underground, 
but Harespring had assigned him to lead 
the ambush outside instead. At least he 
hasn't chosen Breezepelt to go back in 
there. There had been anger in 
Breezepelt’s eyes when he learned he 
wouldn’t be at the forefront of the battle, 
but he remained beside Crowfeather 
without complaining. 

“Larkwing and Gorsetail will put the 
rabbits in place,” Harespring continued. 
“We hope the scent of prey will lure the 
stoats out so we can fight them on our 
own ground.” 

Yes, we know all this, Crowfeather 
thought. His claws tore at the grass in his 


impatience to sink them into  stoats, 
turning their white fur red. Stop 
meowing and let's get started. 

“The rest of you, hide in the bushes.” 
Harespring waved his tail toward the 
gorse thicket, a few fox-lengths away 
from the tunnel entrances. “Any 
questions? No? Then let’s go!” 

Harespring led the way into the 
tunnels with Heathertail and Weaselfur 
padding warily after him. Crowfeather 
watched while Larkwing and Gorsetail 
put two rabbits in position outside the 
entrances, dragging them over the grass 
to spread their scent. Then the two she- 
cats headed for the thicket where the rest 
of the Clan was hiding. 

Now there was nothing to do but 


wait. 

Moons seemed to pass before 
Harespring shot out of the nearest tunnel, 
with his two companions hard on his 
paws. They raced across the open 
ground and joined their Clanmates in the 
bushes. 

“They're coming,’ Harespring 
mewed tensely. 

Several heartbeats later a few stoats 
peeked their heads out of the tunnel, 
sniffing the air and darting their gazes 
around as if they expected trouble. 

Come on, Crowfeather urged them 
silently. His legs were aching with the 
effort of holding back when all his 
instincts were to leap forward and fight. 
Don t you want some of that nice juicy 


rabbit? 

Then a voice spoke behind him. 
“Those are the dangerous enemies in the 
tunnel that every cat’s warned us about?” 

Slightpaw! Crowfeather whirled, 
tearing his pelt on the gorse spines. 
“What are you apprentices doing here?” 
he demanded. 

All four apprentices were crouched 
in front of him, smug looks of 
satisfaction on their faces. His throat 
choked on mingled anger and fear, so 
that for a few heartbeats he couldn’t 
speak. 

“You told us to be bold,” 
Featherpaw mewed, “so we’ve come to 
help fight.” 

“Yeah, Harespring isn’t going to 


keep us away from all the excitement,” 
Hootpaw declared, sliding his claws out 
and scraping them along the ground. 

“Tt doesn’t even look as if it'll be 
that hard,” Oatpaw added as he peered 
out at the stoats. “They’re kind of... 
cute!” 

“I can’t believe we were so scared!” 
Hootpaw exclaimed. “Come on, let’s get 
them!” 

“No!” Crowfeather yowled. “Get 
back to camp!” 

By now the stoats had emerged from 
the tunnels and were sniffing around the 
prey. Wild with enthusiasm, the 
apprentices ignored Crowfeather. With 
Hootpaw in the lead they thrust their 
way out of the bushes and hurled 


themselves at their enemies. 

The stoats whipped around to face 
the four young cats charging at them. As 
Crowfeather raced to catch up, they let 
out their weird chittering cries and flung 
themselves into the attack. 

“Get back!” Crowfeather yowled 
again. Fear shook him like a leaf in the 
wind as he realized that he was too late. 





CHAPTER 15 
è 


~v 


Stoats poured out of the tunnels in an 
unending stream. There are too many of 
them! Crowfeather realized, his chest 
tightening with fear. Soon the four 
apprentices were surrounded. The stoats 
were smaller than badgers, but they 
were fast and wily, and Crowfeather 
knew from the previous skirmish that 
their teeth were sharper than eagle 
talons. And in the bright sunlight, their 
pure white pelts were unnerving. 

Its like being attacked by a 
blizzard. 

Before he could move, the stoats had 


the apprentices trapped. Oatpaw 
nervously struck out with one of their 
battle moves, but the stoats were too fast 
and too vicious—and there were too 
many of them. 

Crowfeather charged toward the 
apprentices, with Breezepelt and 
Gorsetail following. When he was just 
tail-lengths away, Crowfeather cast one 
glance over his shoulder to make sure 
that the rest of his Clanmates were 
following—they were. Then he hurled 
himself into the fray. 

They disobeyed, and theres no way 
of getting them out unscathed, he 
thought desperately. Z hope they're 
ready to fight! 

“Remember your training!” he 


yowled. “Be bold and strike out!” 

In an effort to obey him, Featherpaw 
pounced on a stoat at the mouth of the 
nearest tunnel. Crowfeather batted aside 
one stoat and had another stoat pinned to 
the ground, digging his claws into its 
shoulders, but he caught sight of his 
apprentice as she rose on her hind paws 
and gave her opponent two sharp blows 
around its ears. 

The stoat shrieked in pain and fled. 
Featherpaw let out a screech of triumph, 
but at the same moment more stoats 
appeared in the tunnel behind her and 
leaped on top of her, tearing at her pelt. 
Featherpaw disappeared under the tide 
of white bodies. 

“No!” Crowfeather yowled. /’ve lost 


too many cats lately! His heart lurched 
at the thought of the apprentice he cared 
for dying under the claws of these filthy 
invaders. 

Tossing his stoat aside, he dived into 
the tunnel entrance after Featherpaw, 
lashing out with both forepaws to pull 
the creatures off her. The young she-cat 
was crouching on the floor of the tunnel, 
letting out whimpering cries. Blood was 
already seeping from her wounds, 
matting her gray tabby fur. 

Crowfeather snarled with fury as he 
drove the stoats back into the tunnel. He 
paused, listening, wanting to make sure 
he had enough time to pull the apprentice 
to safety. As their chittering cries faded 
away, he lifted Featherpaw gently by her 


scruff and dragged her out into the open. 
Her body was covered with scratches, 
and there was a particularly deep wound 
on her back. One of her hind paws was 
dangling awkwardly. 

For a moment Crowfeather’s mind 
flew back to Feathertail’s death, the 
sickening crunch as her body hit the 
floor of the cave. J couldnt save her, 
but I will save Featherpaw, he thought 
grimly. 

Battle raged around him as his 
fellow WindClan warriors clashed with 
the stoats. He could see several of the 
white bodies stretched out on the ground, 
but his Clanmates were still on their 
paws. 

Glancing around, Crowfeather 


spotted Breezepelt and Heathertail 
fighting side by side, with Hootpaw 
close to them. To his relief, none of them 
seemed to be badly injured. 

“Over here!” he called out to them. 
“Featherpaw is hurt—we have to protect 
her!” 

Breezepelt and Heathertail dashed 
across to him, while Hootpaw scurried 
after them, all three gasping in horror as 
they saw the blood welling from their 
young Clanmate’s wounds. Together the 
four cats formed a barrier around 
Featherpaw, who was feebly trying to 
rise to her paws. 

“Stay still,’ Crowfeather ordered. 
“The stoats aren’t finished. Let us handle 
this.” 


But the tumult of battle was dying 
down. Crowfeather could hear the 
scurrying of paws through the tough 
moorland grass. The fierceness of the 
stoats’ attack had faded, and they were 
beginning to retreat into the tunnels. The 
other WindClan warriors drove them 
back: Gorsetail and Crouchfoot were in 
the lead, clawing at the stoats’ black- 
tipped tails until the last of the white- 
pelted creatures had disappeared into 
the darkness. 

“Yeah! We won!” Oatpaw yowled. 
The pale brown tabby was leaping up 
and down with excitement. His only 
wounds, Crowfeather was grateful to 
see, were a couple of scratches on one 
shoulder. 


“It’s over for now,’ he mewed 
angrily to Oatpaw. “But the stoats will 
be regrouping down there, and there may 
be many more of them. We need to 
retreat and get Featherpaw to the 
medicine-cat den.” 

“Pm okay,” Featherpaw murmured. 
“I can stay and fight. I did well, didn’t 
I?” she added, gazing up at Crowfeather. 
“T struck out swiftly, just like you said.” 

Her voice faded and her eyelids 
fluttered closed as she lost 
consciousness. 

“You have less sense than a newborn 
rabbit,’ Crowfeather told her, even 
though he wasn’t sure she could hear 
him. “But you were so brave—and so 
reckless.” 


Breezepelt joined him to help lift 
Featherpaw. Guilt washed over 
Crowfeather like a tide of blood as he 
saw the young she-cat’s body hanging 
limply between them; only her shallow 
breathing showed that she was still 
alive. 

“That’s a bad wound on her back, 
and if her paw isn’t seen to right away, it 
won't heal right,” he mewed miserably. 
I'll never forgive myself if she doesn't 
recover. 

Breezepelt was silent as they began 
to carry Featherpaw across the moor; 
Crowfeather was aware of his son’s 
gaze fixed on him, a look that 
Crowfeather couldn’t interpret. But he 
said nothing, and Crowfeather had too 


much on his mind to bother challenging 
him. 

The WindClan camp was in sight 
before Breezepelt spoke. “You don’t 
have to worry about Featherpaw’s paw,” 
he meowed abruptly. “As long as 
Kestrelflight wraps it with a good clump 
of comfrey leaves and cobweb, it should 
be fine.” 

Crowfeather gave his son a curious 
look. “How do you know that?” he 
asked. “You never trained as a medicine 
cat.” 

“No,” Breezepelt responded. “But I 
had the same injury when I was an 
apprentice, and that’s how Barkface 
treated me. I was up and walking again 
in just a few days.” 


Crowfeather was about to say that he 
didn’t remember Breezepelt being 
injured back then, but stopped himself. 
When he thought about it, he did 
remember the injury—or, more 
accurately, he remembered Nightcloud’s 
worrying over it. Busy with his duties as 
Heathertail’s mentor, he had just 
assumed that Nightcloud was being 
overprotective as usual. 

Now ~ Crowfeather understood 
Breezepelt’s strange look. He was 
envious that his father had praised 
Featherpaw and was worried about her 
injuries. 

It wasnt just my kits from 
ThunderClan that I wasn t there for, he 
realized, shock striking him like a 


lightning bolt. J paid so little attention 
to my WindClan son that I hardly 
remembered that he suffered a major 
injury. Have I really cared more for my 
apprentices than my own son? 
Crowfeather had a horrible feeling 
that he knew the answer—or what would 
have been the answer, until recently. But 
Crowfeather hoped that however lacking 
he had been as a father, he could make 
up for that now. In fact, he had to, now 
that Nightcloud was gone. He had to 
accept that he’d been a different cat back 
then, just as Breezepelt was no longer 
the cat whose loyalties lay elsewhere. 
Now Crowfeather had become the 
kind of warrior who could pass his 
experience on to younger cats. He 


suppressed a wistful sigh. Jf only my 
kits had been born later . . . I could be 
a better father now, but is it too late for 
Breezepelt? 


As he and Breezepelt struggled into 
Kestrelflight’s den with Featherpaw, 
Crowfeather saw the young medicine 
cat’s eyes stretch wide with alarm. But a 
moment later he recovered his air of 
efficiency. 

“Bring her over here,” he meowed, 
pointing with his tail to a nest of soft 
moss. “I’ve got all the herbs ready to 
treat injuries from the battle.” 

But no cat expected the worst- 
injured cat to be one of the youngest, 
Crowfeather thought. He could read as 


much in Kestrelflight’s eyes. It doesn t 
seem fair. 

The young medicine cat was too 
kindhearted to scold Crowfeather for not 
taking better care of his apprentice. In 
any case, he couldn’t have blamed 
Crowfeather any more than Crowfeather 
was blaming himself. 

Crowfeather and Breezepelt laid 
Featherpaw down, settling her 
comfortably in the nest, and Kestrelflight 
crouched over her, licking the blood 
from the wound on her back to clean it 
up. 

“What happened out there?” he 
asked between licks. 

“When we left, the stoats had been 
driven back into the tunnels,” 


Crowfeather replied, a worm of 
uneasiness stirring in his belly. “I just 
wonder why none of the other warriors 
have made it back.” 

He found the answer to his question 
a few moments later, when Heathertail 
stuck her head into the entrance to 
Kestrelflight’s den. 

“What’s wrong?” Breezepelt asked 
urgently. “Are you okay?” 

“Pm fine,” Heathertail replied. To 
Kestrelflight she added, “We drove the 
stoats into the tunnels and thought it was 
all over. But then more of them came 
pouring out, and we had to retreat. We 
killed a few of them, but we’re still 
vastly outnumbered.” 

So what do we do now? Crowfeather 


asked himself, a dark cloud of 
disappointment descending on him at the 
news that they hadn’t won even a minor 
victory. They had already assured 
ThunderClan that they had the stoat 
problem under control. But that wasn’t 
true. What 5 going to happen if we cant 
handle this ourselves? 

Then he pushed the thought away. 
There were more important things to 
deal with. 

“Heathertail, can you fetch 
Featherpaw’s parents?” 

Heathertail gave a swift nod. 
“Emberfoot might not be back yet, but I 
saw Sedgewhisker just now. Ill go get 
her.” She disappeared, and her hurrying 
paw steps faded away. 


Kestrelflight was chewing up 
marigold leaves for a poultice when 
both Emberfoot and Sedgewhisker 
arrived, their eyes full of anxiety. 
Crowfeather could taste their fear-scent. 

“How did Featherpaw get hurt?” 
Emberfoot demanded, while 
Sedgewhisker crouched down beside 
her unconscious kit and began to lick her 
ears. “She wasn’t supposed to be in the 
battle!” 

“She and the other apprentices 
followed us and joined in without 
permission,” Crowfeather explained. 

Emberfoot and Sedgewhisker 
exchanged a shocked glance. “It must 
have been those others, encouraging 
her!” Sedgewhisker meowed. 


“Featherpaw would never have done 
such a thing by herself.” 

“So what happened?” Emberfoot 
demanded. 

“Featherpaw was ambushed by a 
group of stoats,” Crowfeather replied, 
“and that’s how she was injured.” 

“She’s lost a lot of blood, and her 
paw is broken,” Kestrelflight added. 

“But she will be all right?” 
Sedgewhisker asked, looking up at him 
with pleading eyes. 

Kestrelflight hesitated. “I can’t be 
certain,” he admitted at last. “P11 set her 
paw and treat the wound on her back, but 
we'll have to wait until she wakes up to 
know for sure if she’ ll recover.” 

Emberfoot and Sedgewhisker 


exchanged a glance of mingled grief and 
fury. Crouching down beside her kit, 
Sedgewhisker began to lick the clotted 
blood from Featherpaw’s fur, while 
Emberfoot stroked her shoulder with the 
tip of his tail. 

“You’re her mentor, Crowfeather,” 
he snarled. “You should have made sure 
that she didn’t end up on such a 
dangerous mission!” 

“The apprentices were ordered not 
to take part in the battle,” Crowfeather 
insisted, seeing Breezepelt looking at 
him uncertainly. “But I did tell her to be 
bold,” he admitted, feeling his throat 
tighten with guilt. “I suppose she took it 
the wrong way. She’s so brave . . . she 
already has all the makings of a warrior. 


When I said to be bold, I never meant for 
her to join in battles far too dangerous 
for an apprentice.” 

“So it was you who gave her the 
idea to do this?” Emberfoot’s shoulder 
fur began to bristle, and his voice was a 
deep, threatening growl. “Why? She’s 
just an apprentice!” 

“I wanted to inspire her, 
Crowfeather replied, “but—” 

“Whats wrong with you lately?” 
Sedgewhisker interrupted. “Ever since 
the Great Battle, it’s like you’re barely 
here! I know you’ve suffered some 
losses, but still . . . if it weren’t for you, 
Featherpaw wouldn’t be lying here now, 
and we don’t even know if she’ll 
survive!” 


99 


Crowfeather wanted to tell the 
distraught cats that it was a mentor’s job 
to inspire their apprentice, and that 
Featherpaw would still be fine if she 
had done what Harespring had told her 
and stayed in camp. But he knew what 
their reaction would be, and it wasn’t an 
outpouring of understanding. Even 
Hootpaw, who had slipped inside and 
was sitting next to Featherpaw, couldn’t 
meet Crowfeather’s gaze. 

Does he blame me as well? 
Crowfeather asked himself, heat rising 
beneath his pelt. Jf he does, he’s right 
to. They all are. Onestar, too, when he 
told me why he didnt choose me as 
deputy. I have been barely here lately. 
And it’s cost WindClan so much. 


“Pm so sorry,’ he meowed to 
Sedgewhisker and Emberfoot. “I feel 
terrible about this. I know I haven’t been 
the greatest of mentors.” Just like 1 
haven t been the best of fathers. 

“I wish I could disagree,” Emberfoot 
meowed coldly. “I used to trust you 
completely, Crowfeather. I was pleased 
when Onestar chose you to mentor 
Featherpaw. But now—now I wonder if 
your carelessness contributed to 
Breezepelt’s foolishness. I thought his 
problems were being overblown by 
some cats, but now I look at you 
differently. Pm not sure either of us will 
ever trust you again. You could’ ve gotten 
Featherpaw killed!” 

Crowfeather met Breezepelt’s gaze, 


unsure of what he was hoping to find 
there. Support? Maybe sympathy? Or 
does he agree with the others? Hes 
never been shy about letting me know 
how frustrated he is with me. 

But Breezepelt showed nothing of 
what he was thinking, lowering his head 
to look at the ground while he scuffled 
his forepaws on the earth floor of the 
den. 

“My den isn’t the right place for this 
argument,” Kestrelflight declared. While 
the others had been talking, he had 
poulticed the wound on Featherpaw’s 
back and plastered cobweb all over it to 
hold the herbs in place. “I want you all 
to leave and give Featherpaw some 
peace and quiet.” 


“No—I want to stay with her!” 
Sedgewhisker objected. 

“But she needs to rest,” Kestrelflight 
pointed out. “If you stay, she’ll only try 
to get up and prove what a brave 
warrior she is.” 

“He’s right,” Emberfoot meowed, 
padding up to Sedgewhisker and nudging 
her to her paws. “Come on. Kestrelflight 
will let us know as soon as Featherpaw 
wakes up.” 

“Of course I will,” Kestrelflight 
promised. 

Reluctantly Sedgewhisker allowed 
her mate to coax her out of the den. 
Breezepelt and Hootpaw followed. 
Crowfeather brought up the rear after 
one last long look at Featherpaw’s inert 


form. 

Outside the den, Harespring had 
returned with the rest of the warriors. He 
was assembling the wounded, picking 
out the ones with the worst injuries for 
Kestrelflight to see first. 

“How is Featherpaw?” Gorsetail 
asked. 

Crowfeather shook his head. “Not 
good,” he admitted. 

“And why was she even there?” 
Crouchfoot added. “I thought the 
apprentices were forbidden from taking 
part in the battle.” 

“They were. They disobeyed,” 
Crowfeather responded. “But I did tell 
Featherpaw to be assertive,” he added 
reluctantly. 


Shocked exclamations rose from the 
crowd of warriors; Leaftail’s voice rose 
above the rest. “I can’t believe you'd 
say that to an apprentice right before a 
battle! You couldn’t have encouraged 
them more if you'd sharpened their 
claws yourself.” 

Crowfeather felt the accusing 
glances of his Clanmates like a whole 
gorse bush full of thorns driving into his 
pelt. 

They’re right. I made the wrong 
decisions at nearly every turn. But 
there's one thing I wasn’t wrong about. 
The threat in the tunnels cant be 
ignored. 

“There’s something I want to say,” 
he announced, raising his voice to be 


heard above the murmurs and pain-filled 
mews of the crowd of cats. 

Harespring turned toward him. “Go 
on, say it, then,” he ordered curtly. 

“Maybe I expressed it wrong,” 
Crowfeather meowed. “But I wasn’t 
wrong that the apprentices—and all of 
us—need to be brave and assertive. 
Have you all forgotten Kestrelflight’s 
vision? The dark water that emerged 
from the tunnels, whipped by the wind, 
fierce enough to swamp WindClan and 
ThunderClan—maybe ShadowClan and 
RiverClan too? Suppose that we don’t 
manage to deal with this stoat problem, 
and something else follows them? What 
if the Clans are so tired and wounded 
from fighting with the stoats that we 


don’t have the strength to handle another 
threat?” 

Hootpaw’s fur bushed out as he 
stood in front of Crowfeather with alarm 
in his eyes. “What are you saying?” he 
demanded, seeming to forget that he was 
an apprentice talking to a senior warrior. 
“That there’s going to be another battle? 
That the Dark Forest cats will return?” 

“No, Pm not saying that,” 
Crowfeather responded, trying to 
reassure Hootpaw. “Because I don’t 
know for sure. But there must be a 
reason Kestrelflight had that dream. And 
what worries me is that a new conflict— 
maybe a threat from outside, maybe 
trouble within the Clan—is going to fall 
over us like the shadows in the tunnels, 


and maybe wash us away like a great 
flood.” 

Some cat in the crowd muttered, 
“He’s got bees in his brain,’ but 
Crowfeather ignored the insult. 

The idea he needed was in 
Crowfeather’s mind like an elusive 
piece of prey. So close, but always just 
out of reach . . . “I know there’s an 
answer there,” he mewed. “I can feel it.” 

The cats gathered around 
Crowfeather were exchanging dubious 
glances, as if none of them believed 
what he was trying to tell them. To 
Crowfeather’s surprise, Breezepelt was 
the first to speak. 

“I think you could be right,” he 
began. It surprised Crowfeather even 


more that Breezepelt, of all cats, was on 
his side. “After all, there were two 
waves in the vision. The wind defeated 
the first one, but the second one 
overwhelmed everything. So do you 
think getting rid of the stoats will ward 
off this bigger threat?” His tone was 
thoughtful, as if he was taking his 
father’s worries seriously. “How do you 
think we can do that? There were so 
many of them in the battle, and there 
must be more of them lurking in the 
tunnels. We’ll be outnumbered, and they 
know the tunnels much better than we do. 
It’s not easy to lure them out into the 
open.” 

Crowfeather nodded. “That’s true.” 
He paused for a moment, uncertain of 


how to respond to his son, though the 
idea he needed to capture was still 
lurking at the back of his mind. Maybe 1 
should treat it like cunning prey, he 
thought. Pretend to ignore it, and trick 
it into overconfidence .. . 

Then, like a stoat peering out of the 
shadows, the thought emerged into the 
light. And like the stoats, what I have to 
say wont be welcome. He took a deep 
breath. “If we’re going to succeed in 
wiping out the stoats and clearing the 
tunnels,” he meowed, “we’re going to 
need help. We’re going to need 
ThunderClan.” 

Murmurs of dismay arose from the 
cats clustered around him. One voice 
rang out above them, from somewhere 


behind Crowfeather. “Absolutely not!” 

Turning, Crowfeather saw that 
Onestar had padded up to join his 
warriors, and was glaring at him with 
cold disapproval. 

“Crowfeather, I can’t believe you 
would even suggest we turn to 
ThunderClan,” he growled. “WindClan 
can handle itself. What’s happened here 
is none of ThunderClan’s business. 
There’s no way I’m going to allow the 
other Clans to find out that we’re 
vulnerable right now. Firestar was 
always meddling in our business,” he 
added. “I don’t want to set that 
precedent with Bramblestar, or soon 
ThunderClan will be sticking their noses 
into all our problems.” 


“And especially if we can’t even 
trust all the cats in our own Clan,” 
Leaftail mewed, with a nasty look at 
Breezepelt. 

Even before Leaftail had finished 
speaking, Heathertail whipped around to 
glare at her Clanmate. “How dare you 
say that!” she hissed. “Breezepelt was 
the first to kill one of the stoats. You 
should be grateful.” 

Leaftail’s only response was a 
disdainful flick of his tail. 

“I don’t need you to defend me,” 
Breezepelt informed Heathertail, fur 
rising all along his spine. “In fact,” he 
added, his cold stare raking across his 
Clanmates, “I don’t need any of you.” 

Heathertail’s eyes widened in shock 


and hurt at Breezepelt’s response. 
Crowfeather was surprised, too, when 
Heathertail had done nothing but defend 
his son. He knew that Breezepelt was 
just lashing out in anger and frustration, 
but he guessed that when he calmed 
down, he would regret snapping at 
Heathertail. She was one of the only true 
friends he had in the Clan. 

“Traitor!” Crouchfoot yowled as the 
clamor continued. 

More yowls rose from the assembled 
cats, most of them accusing Breezepelt, 
though a few tried to make themselves 
heard in his defense. With bristling pelts 
and claws sliding out, the cats were 
heartbeats away from attacking one 
another. Weaselfur pushed past 


Crowfeather, almost knocking him off 
his paws, as he squared up to Leaftail, 
his lips drawn back in a snarl. 

Crowfeather could do nothing but 
stand in dismay as he watched his 
beloved Clan falling apart before his 
eyes. 

“That’s enough!” Onestar’s 
caterwaul rose above the outcry. 
“Sheathe your claws!” As the warriors 
turned toward him, he added, “Don’t you 
think the stoats would enjoy seeing us 
fight among ourselves?” 

Crowfeather crept off into the 
medicine-cat den. The sounds of 
argument faded away as Onestar got 
control of his Clan and, with 
Harespring’s help, sent the uninjured 


warriors out on hunting patrols. 
Crowfeather didn’t want to be chosen. 

I’m sure every cat would rather 
chew off their own tail than patrol with 
me. 

“Do you mind if I stay in here for a 
while?” he asked Kestrelflight. “I could 
help you watch Featherpaw.” 

To Crowfeather’s surprise, 
Kestrelflight gave him a sympathetic 
glance. He must be the only cat who 
doesn t think I’m a waste of space. 

“That would be a real help,” 
Kestrelflight replied. “I’ve been sorting 
out the herbs I need to treat the other 
injuries, but I don’t want to leave 
Featherpaw alone. Can you stay with her 
until I get back?” 


“Sure.” 

Kestrelflight padded out of the den 
with a leaf wrap of herbs in his jaws. 
Left alone with Featherpaw, 
Crowfeather settled down beside her 
nest and lowered his head to give her a 
sniff. Though she was still unconscious, 
the clean tang of comfrey and marigold 
was stronger than the scent of blood, and 
her breathing seemed to be deeper and 
steadier than before. 

Crowfeather wanted to speak to her, 
but guilt made the words stick in his 
throat. I’ve failed her, just like I failed 
Breezepelt. 

“Featherpaw, Pm so sorry I 
encouraged you to go into danger,” he 
mewed at last. “I should have been more 


careful with what I said to you, and as 
soon as I saw you out there by the 
tunnels, I should have sent you straight 
back to camp. But I never thought 
everything would go so wrong, so 
quickly.” 

His mind drifted back to his sense 
that some greater threat was looming 
over the Clans, and that the only way to 
deal with the stoats was to involve 
ThunderClan. But Onestar won t hear of 
it, he thought resentfully. He’d hoped 
that, after the Great Battle, the Clans 
would realize they needed one another 
more than ever. Instead it felt like they 
were even more divided. 

And what about WindClan? he 
wondered. Theres not only fighting 


between the Clans . . . theres fighting 
within, too. Was WindClan doomed to 
tear itself apart with arguments? Could 
they ever work together when so few 
cats trusted Breezepelt? 

“And then there’s Breezepelt 
himself,” he murmured aloud. “What’s 
going to happen to him?” 

He wondered if Breezepelt could 
ever get over his anger and hurt at the 
events of the Great Battle. Will the 
Great Battle haunt us always? 

Crouched in the quiet of the 
medicine-cat den, Crowfeather felt sleep 
stealing up on him. The stress of the 
battle, Featherpaw’s injuries, and the 
quarrels among the Clan had sapped his 
strength. His own wounds, even though 


they were minor compared to 
Featherpaw’s, stung as if a whole swarm 
of bees were attacking him. Crowfeather 
struggled against sleep for a while, then 
curled up even closer to Featherpaw so 
that if she moved she would rouse him, 
and let himself slip into darkness. 

Instantly Crowfeather found himself 
running through the tunnels, faster and 
more confidently than he ever had in the 
waking world. A pale gray light just 
ahead of him told him that Ashfoot was 
there, though at first he couldn’t see her. 

“Wait for me!” he called out to her. 
“Why do you keep doing this?” 

Then an even brighter light shone in 
front of Crowfeather. He burst out into 
the open and saw that he had reached a 


forest clearing. A full moon was 
overhead, shedding a silver light over 
the trees and bushes, and stars blazed 
down through gaps in the branches. A 
small pool in the center of the clearing 
looked as if it was made of liquid 
starlight. 

Fear and wonder shivered through 
Crowfeather until he felt as if his blood 
were turning to ice. Where am I? he 
asked himself. The full moon alone told 
him that this wasn’t the world he lived in 
when he was awake. Yet he knew that 
only medicine cats were allowed to 
enter StarClan before they died. 

“Crowfeather?” His mother’s voice 
startled him out of his thoughts. “Why 
are you standing there gaping as if you 


expect prey to come and fly into your 
jaws?” 

Now Crowfeather spotted Ashfoot 
sitting in the shadow of an arching clump 
of ferns. He padded over to her, hardly 
feeling as if his paws were his own. 

“What is this place?” he asked 
hoarsely. 

Ashfoot gave an impatient twitch of 
her whiskers. “It’s your dream, mouse- 
brain,” she responded. 

“Then why have you brought me 
here?” 

“Pm still trying to make you see 
sense,” Ashfoot told him. “And since 
you won’t listen to me, I’ve brought a 
friend.” 

A rustling came from the bushes 


behind Crowfeather. He spun around, his 
pelt prickling with apprehension. He 
stared as the undergrowth parted and a 
silver tabby she-cat stepped into the 
open. Her plumy tail was raised high, 
and her blue eyes glowed with love for 
him. 

“Greetings, | Crowfeather,” she 
mewed. 

“Feathertail!” Crowfeather breathed 
out. Astonishment and disbelief gripped 
him like giant claws, and the ache of 
loss awoke again in his heart. “Is it 
really you?” 

The last time he had seen the 
beautiful RiverClan she-cat had been in 
the mountains, in the cave where the 
Tribe lived. There she had leaped to the 


cave roof and gripped a pointed stone 
until it had given way and plummeted 
downward to drive into the heart of 
Sharptooth, the ferocious lion-cat. But 
Feathertail had fallen with it; her 
courageous action had cost her her life. 

She saved the Tribe, and she saved 
me. Oh, Feathertail . . . I loved you so 
much! 

Crowfeather stood still, stunned by 
shock, while Feathertail padded 
forward, twined her tail with his, and 
nuzzled him affectionately. He could feel 
the warmth of her pelt and taste her 
sweet scent as it wreathed around him. 
He could hardly believe that this was 
only a dream. 

“I’ve missed you,” he choked out. 


“Pve missed you, too.” Feathertail 
took a pace back and looked deeply into 
Crowfeather’s eyes. “But you’re not 
quite the same cat that I knew back 
then.” 

“What do you mean?” Crowfeather 
asked. 

“You remember that Pm in both 
StarClan and the Tribe of Endless 
Hunting,” Feathertail meowed. “The 
Tribe has given me permission to come 
and speak to you. I’ve been watching 
you, and I’m troubled by what I’ve 
seen.” 

“What do you mean?” Crowfeather 
asked. 

“ve seen how you are with 
Breezepelt,” Feathertail replied. “The 


Crowfeather I knew had so much love to 
give. Why have you been withholding 
love from your own son?” 

Crowfeather turned his head sharply 
to gaze at Ashfoot. “Are you ganging up 
on me now?” 

Ashfoot shrugged. “I had to make 
you see .. . and I knew she was the one 
cat you would always listen to.” 

With a long sigh, Crowfeather turned 
back to Feathertail. “What you say is 
true,” he admitted. “I’ve tried to set 
things right with Breezepelt, but I’m 
worried that it’s too late. Everything 
went wrong between us because of what 
I did—or didn’t do—when Breezepelt 
was just an apprentice, and I can’t go 
back in time, however much I might want 


to. Now Breezepelt is still troubled. 
What more can I do?” 

Feathertail blinked at him 
affectionately. “You can accept 
Breezepelt for who he is.” 

“PIL try,” Crowfeather promised. 
“But right now, keeping the Clan safe is 
the most important task for every cat. I 
know we need ThunderClan’s help to 
clear the stoats out of the tunnels, but 
Onestar just won’t see that.” 

Feathertail’s blue eyes sparkled with 
sympathy. “Then there’s only one thing 
you can do,” she mewed. “Be true to 
yourself.” 

Crowfeather’s whiskers twitched in 
surprise. “If I were being true to 
myself . . . I suppose I would go to 


Leafpool,” he murmured. But would 
Feathertail really suggest going to the 
only cat he had loved after her—and 
disobeying his Clan leader to do it? 
“Should I go behind Onestar’s back?” he 
asked. 

Feathertail stared at him intensely. 
“Crowfeather ... ,” she began, but her 
voice trailed off. 

“Leafpool would be able to 
persuade Bramblestar that it’s for the 
good of ThunderClan to help me,” 
Crowfeather went on as the pieces came 
together in his mind. “And once I get rid 
of the threat, Onestar won’t care how I 
did it.” 

Ashfoot leaned forward. 
“Crowfeather . . . the Clan is what 


matters. You must put the good of the 
Clan above everything else.” 

Her voice faded on the last few 
words, and the brilliant moonlight in the 
clearing began to fade too. Before 
darkness fell, the last things Crowfeather 
saw were Feathertail’s eyes, as warm 
and blue as the sky in greenleaf. 

Crowfeather blinked awake in the 
dim light of the medicine-cat den. 
Featherpaw was still unconscious 
beside him, and Feathertail and Ashfoot 
were gone, but their words remained 
fresh in his thoughts. He rose to his paws 
and arched his back in a good long 
stretch. 

Sedgewhisker was right, he thought. 
I havent really been present since the 


Great Battle, not for my Clan. Even 
though I’m not deputy, I seem to be the 
only cat who can see reason. It’ time 
for me to put my Clan first. 

Now Crowfeather knew what he had 
to do. 





CHAPTER 16 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather slipped through the 
undergrowth in the wooded area at the 
edge of WindClan territory. He didn’t 
like the damp sensation of moist earth 
under his pads, or the feeling of being 
closed in by branches above his head. 
He longed for the springy sensation of 
moorland grass, and the feeling of cold 
wind in his whiskers as he raced across 
the hillside. 

No wonder ThunderClan cats are so 
weird, when they live in the forest all 
the time! 

On leaving camp, Crowfeather had 


considered cutting through the tunnels to 
reach ThunderClan territory, his paws 
and fur itching with the urge to kill a few 
stoats on the way. But if I tried that, I 
might never come out on the other side, 
he realized. 

As he headed for the border stream, 
Crowfeather seemed to hear 
Kestrelflight’s voice. A wild wind 
kicked up and drove the water back. 
But eventually the wind dropped, and 
the water kept on rushing and 
gushing . . . until it swallowed up 
everything. The image the medicine cat 
had spoken of was so vivid that 
Crowfeather felt that he could see the 
restless waves for himself, almost as if 
the vision had been his, a special 


message sent to him from StarClan. 

After everything that had happened 
since, particularly how Nightcloud and 
Breezepelt had suffered so much from 
the stoats in the tunnels where the 
floodwater came from, Crowfeather 
couldn’t shake off the feeling that 
somehow the responsibility for fixing 
this problem rested on his shoulders. 

Or, if I fail, maybe my kin will feel 
they have to do it. I cant put that 
burden on them. 

It felt strange for Crowfeather to 
muse that maybe not being deputy was a 
good thing. If he had been, he would 
never have dared to go behind Onestar’s 
back like this; as a warrior, he had less 
to lose. That conviction was all that kept 


him going, once he could hear the 
gurgling of the stream that formed 
WindClan’s border with ThunderClan. 
He couldn’t help remembering how 
forcefully Onestar had refused to ask for 
help from the rival Clan. 

And now here I am, going to do just 
that. Cats have been banished from 
their Clans for less. 

Approaching the stream, 
Crowfeather tasted the air, picking up 
the stench of the ThunderClan scent 
markers and, beyond that, the fresh scent 
of ThunderClan cats. A few heartbeats 
later, Berrynose and Thornclaw emerged 
from behind a clump of elder bushes that 
grew on the bank of the stream. 

Oh, StarClan! Not Berrynose again! 


Crowfeather signaled to them with 
his tail. The two warriors stiffened at the 
sight of him, and Crowfeather saw them 
slide out their claws. He didn’t move 
any closer to the border, waiting while 
the ThunderClan cats sniffed warily and 
let their gazes flicker along the bank to 
either side of him. 

After a moment the two cats relaxed, 
retracting their claws; clearly, they 
hadn’t picked up any other WindClan 
scent. Even so, Crowfeather stayed 
where he was, not moving forward to the 
edge of the stream. 

“What do you want?” Berrynose 
asked. 

“I need to speak with Leafpool,” 
Crowfeather replied with a respectful 


dip of his head. Like IIl ever respect 
Berrynose! But for now, I need him to 
cooperate. “I have something very 
important to discuss with her, and it 
can’t wait.” 

Berrynose and Thornclaw exchanged 
a dubious glance with a hint of hostility. 
“Whats this all about?” Thornclaw 
asked. “Clan business? Medicine-cat 
business?” 

“Private business,” Crowfeather 
responded. 

Berrynose let out a snort of 
amusement, though Thornclaw remained 
serious as he glared at Crowfeather with 
narrowed eyes. “I think you’ve shared 
enough private business with Leafpool,” 
he growled. 


Oh, for StarClan’s sake! 
Crowfeather forced his neck fur to stay 
flat. “It’s nothing like that,” he mewed 
defensively. 

The two cats hesitated for a moment. 
Then Berrynose gave Crowfeather a 
brusque nod. 

“You ll have to stay there, on your 
own side of the stream,” he responded. 
“T don’t think it would be a good idea to 
escort you into camp just now.” 

No, not after all the trouble at the 
Gathering, Crowfeather thought, trying 
not to feel insulted. /t seems like every 
cat is feeling extra protective these 
days. 

“That’s fine, thanks,” he replied. 
“PII wait here.” 


The two  ThunderClan cats 
disappeared into the undergrowth, 
heading for their camp. While he waited, 
Crowfeather found himself staring at the 
stream as it flowed lazily over the stony 
bed. There were times when he had seen 
it running faster, and the thought drew 
him back once again into Kestrelflight’s 
vision. 

I dont think the underground river 
would ever swell enough to surge out in 
the kind of flood Kestrelflight saw. The 
water must mean something else—but 
what? 

Crowfeather pursued the answer as 
if he were stalking a crafty bit of prey, 
lying in wait for it to show itself, but for 
all his efforts he was no closer. 


“Best give up,” he growled aloud, 
though no cat was listening. He gave an 
annoyed flick of his tail as he wondered 
if he really did need to take on the 
responsibility for his Clan’s survival. 

Crowfeather hadn’t waited for long 
before the undergrowth parted and 
Berrynose and Thornclaw reappeared. 
Crowfeather felt a tingle of excitement in 
his pads at the thought of seeing 
Leafpool again. While his feelings for 
her had changed over time, he knew he 
could count on her to understand the 
urgency of what he had come to say. 

Then the ferns parted again. He 
stifled a hiss of irritation as he saw that 
the cat who appeared wasn’t Leafpool. 

It was Jayfeather. 


“T said I wanted to see Leafpool,” he 
meowed, gazing at the ThunderClan cats 
in confusion. 

“We weren't too sure about your 
private business,” Thornclaw explained. 
“Besides, Leafpool was busy, so we 
figured Jayfeather would be fine.” 

A furious retort rose to 
Crowfeather’s lips, but he bit it back. He 
had experienced enough awkward 
encounters with one son; he wasn’t 
prepared for another. 

The two warriors withdrew, while 
Jayfeather padded up to the bank of the 
stream and leaped across as confidently 
as if he could see the edge. Crowfeather 
was impressed to see how capable his 
blind son was. An odd kind of affection 


swelled inside him, but he knew that 
he’d played little part in Jayfeather’s 
life. Its no thanks to me that he turned 
out so well. 

Jayfeather’s ears were pricked, and 
the fur on his shoulders was beginning to 
rise. He didn’t look any happier than 
Crowfeather felt. 

“What are you doing here?” he 
asked, a hint of surprise in his voice. 
“Whatever it is, it had better be good. 
I’ve interrupted my duties to come to see 
you. I don’t like being summoned as if 
Pma lazy apprentice.” 

Crowfeather fought against an 
impulse to turn around and go home. 
Jayfeather was difficult and gruff at the 
best of times. With all that had been 


going on, it wouldn’t be easy to ask him 
for help. 

But m like that, too, he admitted to 
himself. Perhaps I have passed down 
something to this kit. 

Crowfeather remembered his dream, 
and the good advice Feathertail had 
given him. He knew he had no choice but 
to give it a try. 

“I want to talk to you about the 
stoats,” he began. “WindClan hasn’t 
been able to deal with them at our end of 
the tunnels. In fact, they’re a much bigger 
problem than we thought at first.” He 
hesitated, scraping at the ground with 
one forepaw. “The truth is, 
Jayfeather . . . WindClan needs 
ThunderClan’s help.” 


Just as he had expected, Jayfeather 
gave an angry lash of his tail. “Then why 
did Onestar insist on handling it himself? 
And why didn’t he come with you and 
ask to talk to Bramblestar?” His ears 
pricked suddenly in a gesture of 
astonishment. “Does Onestar even know 
that you’re here?” 

“Well . . . no,” Crowfeather 
confessed, expecting that Jayfeather 
would refuse to say any more. 

Instead, to Crowfeather’s surprise, 
Jayfeather seemed almost impressed, a 
rusty mrrow of amusement coming from 
his throat. “You’ve got some nerve, I'll 
give you that,” he meowed. “So Onestar 
is still insisting on coping with this 
alone. . . . Doesn’t he realize that if the 


stoats get bolder and stronger around the 
tunnels, it'll be a threat to ThunderClan 
as well?” 

“Of course, but—” Crowfeather 
broke off as Jayfeather interrupted him. 

“We’ve extended our patrols, and we 
haven’t seen much of the stoats on our 
side lately. I assumed they had gone for 
good, but obviously they haven’t.” 

“No, and the problem on our side is 
pretty bad,” Crowfeather admitted, with 
a renewed pang of regret as he thought of 
Nightcloud’s death. “We thought we 
could handle it on our own, but we 
underestimated the stoats, and that was a 
mistake. Besides, I’m getting the feeling 
that they’re more than just a pest.” 

“Why is that?” Jayfeather asked. 


“You were at the Gathering,” 
Crowfeather replied. “You heard what 
Kestrelflight said, about the vision of 
water emerging from the tunnels, water 
that could flood the Clans’ territories? 
I’m beginning to think that the stoats are 
part of that.” 

Jayfeather said nothing, but 
Crowfeather could see from the tilt of 
his head that he was listening intently. 

“What if the stoats are a small 
problem,” he went on, feeling slightly 
encouraged, “but one that would leave 
the Clans vulnerable when faced with a 
bigger challenge?” 

Jayfeather rolled his sightless blue 
eyes. “After everything that happened 
with the Dark Forest,” he mewed, “you 


think StarClan is going to try to frighten 
us using stoats? You should leave the 
prophesying to the medicine cats.” He 
half turned away, as if he was about to 
leave. 

Crowfeather did his best to ignore 
the jibe. “It’s the Great Battle that has 
me worried,” he responded, desperate to 
make Jayfeather listen. “That showed me 
that all our tussles over territory until 
then had been minor. I never expected 
that the Clans could be pulled into a 
conflict that claimed so many lives. If it 
happened once, it could happen again.” 

Jayfeather let out a snort; clearly, he 
was still unconvinced. “And a bunch of 
stoats are really going to start the next 
Great Battle?” 


“They could,” Crowfeather insisted. 
“Its not so far-fetched. The stoats have 
already killed one cat and seriously 
injured another. And they’re getting 
bolder every day—maybe because 
we're still gathering our strength. 
They’re fast and spiteful, and that makes 
them deadly—and there are a lot of 
them. Even if all the WindClan warriors 
went up against them at once, we would 
still be outnumbered. WindClan and 
ThunderClan need to work together, for 
the good of both Clans—and maybe 
ShadowClan and RiverClan too.” 

“But Onestar hasn’t changed his 
mind?” 

“No,” Crowfeather admitted. 
“Onestar still won’t hear of cooperating. 


The idea will have to come from... 
some other cat.” 

Jayfeather’s whiskers arched in 
surprise. “You are sticking your nose 
into a bees’ nest, aren’t you?” He 
hesitated for a moment, then let out a 
sigh. “Okay, fine. Il talk to Bramblestar 
about it. He’s reasonable; he’ll probably 
take this seriously.” 

His confident tone and his obvious 
respect for Bramblestar reminded 
Crowfeather of how close Jayfeather 
was to his Clan leader: At one time, they 
had believed themselves to be father and 
son. And Bramblestar was a great 
father to him . . . maybe better than I 
could have been. 

“If you want my advice,” Jayfeather 


continued, ‘“WindClan needs to sort 
itself out. If you had brought this up right 
from the start, maybe Nightcloud would 
still be here.” 

Crowfeather winced at his son’s 
blunt criticism, but said nothing. He 5 
not wrong. 

“Tf nothing else,” Jayfeather went on, 
“the Great Battle should have taught all 
the Clans the importance of working 
together.” 

“You're right, of course,” 
Crowfeather acknowledged. 

Jayfeather twitched his ears irritably. 
“T always am,” he meowed. 

Crowfeather dipped his head, then 
felt his pelt bristle with embarrassment 
—Jayfeather couldn’t see his gesture. So 


he thanked his son sincerely, and 
watched as Jayfeather leaped neatly 
across the stream, back to the 
ThunderClan side. 

Its amazing how a blind cat can 
cross a stream of water without once 
stopping to feel his way with his 
forepaws. 

As Jayfeather disappeared into the 
bushes, Crowfeather watched, feeling as 
though a thorn had pierced his heart. 
Jayfeather was ornery, it was true... 
but he was also a clever and special cat. 
He got the orneriness from me, 
Crowfeather reflected. Of that I’m 
fairly sure. But what about the rest? 

He couldn’t help but wonder how 
Jayfeather might have turned out, had he 


raised him instead of Bramblestar. 
Would he have become the medicine cat 
he is now? Or would Jayfeather paws 
have led him down a different path? 

He thought of Breezepelt 
insecure, angry, and struggling. How 
much of that was because of me? Would 
Breezepelt be any different now, if he’d 
been raised by another cat? 

On his way back to the WindClan 
camp, Crowfeather felt a weight settling 
over him, as if his pelt were soaked with 
muddy water. He tried to shake it off, 
telling himself that it was too late to 
have these thoughts about Jayfeather. 
Jayfeather was grown up, a full 
medicine cat, a vital part of a different 
Clan. 


But Breezepelt... 

Crowfeather shook himself, thinking 
that he didn’t have time to think about the 
problems of his own making right now. 

There were more important matters 
to be dealt with. 


When Crowfeather reached the 
WindClan camp, he immediately spotted 
Onestar sitting outside his den. The Clan 
leader rose to his paws, glaring at 
Crowfeather as he padded down the 
slope and crossed the hollow to join 
him. 

“Where have you been all day?” 
Onestar demanded. 

Crowfeather took a breath. He had 
known when he left that Onestar would 


want an explanation, and he had decided 
to tell the truth “Ive spoken to 
Jayfeather,’ he replied. “I told him 
what’s been happening at our end of the 
tunnels. ThunderClan needs to know for 
their own safety—and ours. I’ve asked 
them for their help.” 

Onestar tilted his head, his eyes 
widening. He drew his lips back into a 
snarl, while the fur on his pelt bristled in 
fury. “How dare you?” he spat. “How 
could you go behind my back like that 
and share our private business with 
ThunderClan? Are you a loyal WindClan 
warrior or not?” Lashing his tail, he let 
out a growl deep within his throat, then 
continued without giving Crowfeather a 
chance to defend himself. “I can’t figure 





out what’s going on with you lately. It’s 
this kind of reckless behavior that kept 
me from making you deputy. I thought 
you put your Clan first, but maybe I was 
wrong.” 

Anger swelled up inside 
Crowfeather, but he forced himself to 
stay calm “It’s because Pm a loyal 
WindClan warrior that I went to 
ThunderClan for help,” he responded. “I 
know working with ThunderClan isn’t 
ideal, but it feels like the only way to 
make sure we all survive. I won’t stand 
by and let what happened to Breezepelt 
and Featherpaw—and Nightcloud— 
happen to any other cat in camp because 
we were too stubborn to ask for the help 
we need. I won’t put Hootpaw or 


Heathertail in harm’s way just to protect 
WindClan’s pride!” 

Onestar lashed his tail again, his 
anger clearly mounting. “Who are you to 
talk about WindClan’s pride?” he 
demanded. “It’s your own pride that’s 
important to you, Crowfeather. A loyal 
warrior would have asked his leader’s 
permission before going to ask for help 
from another Clan. And a disloyal 
warrior has no place in WindClan!” 

Crowfeather was silent, his gaze 
locked with Onestar’s. Js that a threat? 
But you wouldnt have given your 
permission, would you? 

The Clan leader was the first to look 
away. “Whats done is done,” he 
snapped. “Now Ill have to decide what 


Pll say to Bramblestar.” 

He rose and turned to enter his den, 
then paused and looked back at 
Crowfeather over his shoulder. “Don’t 
think this is over,” he snarled. “P11 deal 
with you later.” 


The sun was starting to go down as 
Crowfeather returned to camp, a small 
vole dangling from his jaws. Dropping it 
on the fresh-kill pile, he glanced up at 
the sky, judging that there was time to go 
out again before darkness fell. 

But lIl take a few moments to rest 
first, he thought, padding over to the 
warriors’ den. His pads ached from 
pounding the hard ground. J cant wait 
for leafbare to be over. 


As Crowfeather settled into his nest, 
he spotted Breezepelt and Heathertail 
returning to camp, deep in conversation, 
and so close together that their pelts 
were brushing. Even as he noted Leaftail 
and Gorsetail huddling nearby, eyeing 
the couple suspiciously, he felt an 
unfamiliar emotion swelling in his chest: 
happiness that his son had a cat who 
cared about him, but also optimism that 
one day—maybe soon—Breezepelt 
would be accepted as a Clan cat once 
again. 

After all, if Breezepelt became 
Heathertail’s mate—Heathertail, who 
was such a respected warrior—and had 
kits with her, raising a whole litter of 
new WindClan warriors, which cat 


would dream of doubting where his 
loyalties lay? 

When Heathertail moved off to the 
fresh-kill pile, Crowfeather rose to his 
paws and padded over to Breezepelt. 
“How’s your injury?” he asked. 

“Oh, it’s fine,” Breezepelt responded 
with a dismissive flick of his tail. “Hurts 
a bit, but I can deal with it.” 

“You know, Heathertail isn’t 
listening,” Crowfeather mewed, gently 
teasing. “You don’t have to act tough.” 

Something flashed in Breezepelt’s 
eyes, and for a moment Crowfeather 
thought it was irritation. He felt panic 
beating inside him like a trapped bird, 
worried that Breezepelt wouldn’t take 
his comment in the way he meant it. Then 


he saw a faint gleam of amusement in his 
son’s eyes. 

“Are you trying to tell me you’ve 
never done the same?” Breezepelt 
retorted. 

“Well . . . I can’t remember a 
specific time,” Crowfeather replied, his 
pelt beginning to grow hot with 
embarrassment. “But I’m sure I must 
have acted tough to impress a she-cat at 
some point.” 

Once again, as soon as the words 
were out of his mouth Crowfeather 
regretted them. Breezepelt must be 
thinking of how many she-cats I’ve 
loved. 

But there was no hostility in 
Breezepelt’s expression. “I feel guilty, 


thinking only of Heathertail and my 
feelings for her,” he meowed, surprising 
Crowfeather with his honesty. “There’s 
so much else going on in the Clan, and 
we've lost Nightcloud. . . .” 

“Maybe that means you truly love 
Heathertail,’ Crowfeather suggested, 
feeling daring, as if he were about to 
fight a fox. “There’s nothing wrong with 
that.” 

Breezepelt said nothing, only giving 
his chest fur a couple of embarrassed 
licks. 

No wonder he feels embarrassed, 
Crowfeather thought. Hes young, and 
its hard to discuss she-cats with your 
father—especially when you don t know 
your father all that well. Come to think 


of it, my father, Deadfoot, was always 
busy, since he was Clan deputy. I’d 
have died if I’d had to talk to him about 
she-cats! 

“Yow ll be okay,” he mewed, risking 
a joke to reassure his son, “provided you 
make less of a mess of things than I did.” 

He braced himself for a scathing 
retort, wondering yet again if he had said 
the wrong thing. 

But Breezepelt simply let out a snort 
of amusement. “That wouldn’t be hard!” 

The two toms settled down together, 
gazing across the camp, in the first 
comfortable silence Crowfeather could 
remember between them. Even though it 
was a bad time for the Clan, even though 
he and Breezepelt were still grieving for 


Nightcloud, Crowfeather felt a pleasant 
warmth spreading beneath his pelt. Just 
for a moment, they were starting to feel 
like father and son. 

I can be a better father, he thought 
confidently. And if nothing else is going 
right... at least I’m making progress 
here. 





CHAPTER 17 
» 


~v 


The scent of ThunderClan cats drifted 
into Crowfeather’s nose where he lay 
dozing in his nest in the warriors’ den 
just after sunup the next day. Startling 
awake, he spotted Gorsetail; her 
apprentice, Hootpaw; and Furzepelt, 
who had gone out on the dawn patrol, 
leading Bramblestar, Jayfeather, and 
Lionblaze into the camp. The WindClan 
cats’ fur was bristling as they hustled the 
visitors over to Onestar’s den. 
Crowfeather rose to his paws and 
bounded over to the den as Harespring 
and some of the other WindClan cats 


began to gather around, gazing at the 
newcomers with narrowed eyes, the fur 
on their shoulders beginning to bristle. 
Lionblaze spotted Crowfeather as he 
drew to a halt in front of the leader’s 
den, then quickly looked away. 

Crowfeather felt his pads tingle with 
apprehension. His news had brought the 
ThunderClan cats to this meeting, but he 
had no idea how Onestar would treat 
them. He hadn’t spoken to his Clan 
leader since his angry dismissal the day 
before. He could only hope that Onestar 
had seen sense and would welcome 
ThunderClan’s help. 

“Bramblestar wants to talk to 
Onestar about Kestrelflight’s vision,” 
Furzepelt explained to Harespring. 


“What about Kestrelflight’s vision?” 
Onestar’s voice came from his den 
underneath the Tallrock, and a heartbeat 
later the Clan leader emerged. 

Crowfeather felt a heavy, sinking 
feeling in his belly. He could see that 
Onestar felt no friendliness toward the 
ThunderClan cats. The WindClan leader 
was looking at Bramblestar with an 
expression as icy as the leaf-bare wind 
that swept over the moor. 

I dont regret telling Jayfeather the 
truth . . . but I dont think Onestar sees 
it my way. Hes not going to make this 
easy for Bramblestar. And Bramblestar 
hasn't been a leader for very long. He 
might not know how to handle this. 

Crowfeather stared at the 


ThunderClan leader. He was facing 
Onestar with a calm confidence that must 
surely have impressed the older cat. 

Crowfeather took a pace or two 
closer to the Tallrock as Onestar gave 
the smallest possible dip of his head 
toward Bramblestar. “Greetings,” he 
mewed coldly. 

The ThunderClan leader lowered his 
head respectfully. “Greetings, Onestar,” 
he began. “I’ve come to discuss what 
Jayfeather told me about the vision. I 
understand that you haven’t handled the 
stoats at your end of the tunnels, as you 
said you would, and you might need 
some help.” 

Onestar twitched his whiskers 
irritably and exchanged a glance with 


Harespring. “I’m not sure where you got 
that idea,” he responded. “WindClan is 
doing just fine. We are coping with the 
threat ourselves.” 

Bramblestar blinked in surprise and 
cast a confused look at Crowfeather. 
“That’s not what I was told.” 

Crowfeather felt like he’d been 
dipped in freezing-cold water as he 
looked from Bramblestar to his own 
leader. He wished he could tell 
Bramblestar that he shared his surprise. 
He had known Onestar wasn’t exactly 
enthusiastic about accepting 
ThunderClan’s help, but he hadn’t 
thought he would outright deny that there 
was a problem. 

That means the Clans wont work 


together . . . which means the stoats 
might never be defeated. And that 
would leave WindClan vulnerable to 
whatever was being foretold in 
Kestrelflight’s vision. 

Crowfeather’s neck fur prickled with 
frustration. 

Does Onestar have bees in his 
brain? 

Worse, his Clanmates were about to 
find out that he had gone behind their 
leader’s back. If anything could make 
me more unpopular, it would be that. 

“One of your own warriors asked for 
a meeting with Jayfeather, to tell him—” 
Bramblestar began, only to have Onestar 
interrupt him. 

“Of course, Bramblestar, you don’t 


understand this yet,’ Onestar meowed, 
giving Bramblestar the kind of haughty 
look he might have given to a 
misbehaving apprentice, “because 
you’re a very new leader. But you need 
to learn that ordinary warriors don’t 
know everything. To get at the truth,” he 
continued with a pointed look at 
Crowfeather, “one must ask the Clan 
leader, and I’m telling you quite clearly 
that we don’t need help. Firestar would 
have understood that, but alas . . . he’s 
gone.” 

Crowfeather winced at the mention 
of the previous ThunderClan leader. 
Thats hardly fair to Bramblestar. What 
cat could compare to Firestar? 

Bramblestar’s amber eyes lit with 


anger, yet his voice was even as he 
replied. “If there are still stoats in the 
tunnels, they’ ll eventually try to establish 
territory at our end. The threat must be 
contained for both our sakes. Arguing 
about it is just wasting time. There’s no 
reason our Clans can’t work together.” 

Onestar’s mouth twisted in mockery. 
“Youre a young cat, but you’re already 
so hard of hearing! So Pll say it again, 
as Clearly as I can: WindClan deals with 
WindClan’s own problems. We don’t 
need ThunderClan’s meddling.” 

“Meddling!” Lionblaze broke in, 
digging his claws into the ground. “I’ve 
heard you were pleased enough to have 
us meddle when Mudclaw led his 
rebellion.” 


Bramblestar glared at his warrior. 
“Be quiet!” he snapped. 

Crowfeather suddenly felt some cat’s 
gaze boring into him. He turned to see 
Jayfeather sitting at the edge of the group 
of cats, his blind blue eyes fixed on him. 
As he met that compelling stare, hardly 
able to believe that Jayfeather couldn’t 
see him, the ThunderClan medicine cat 
rose to his paws, swishing his tail 
angrily. 

“If WindClan wants to deal with 
WindClan’s problems, fine,” he hissed. 
“We should leave now. We tried.” 

“But it’s not that easy,” Bramblestar 
responded patiently. “If whatever is in 
the tunnels is a threat, it’s a threat to both 
Clans.” Turning to Onestar, he added, 


“You have the right to make decisions 
for your Clan, but no right to make 
decisions that will endanger mine.” 

“That’s right!” Lionblaze agreed, his 
golden tabby fur beginning to bristle. 

Crowfeather felt an anxious flutter in 
his belly at the sight of his son defending 
the cat who raised him. And I think 
they re right, he mused. Does that make 
me a traitor to WindClan? 

When he turned back toward the two 
Clan leaders, Bramblestar was 
meowing, “I insist that you work with 
me to deal with this threat.” 

Briefly Crowfeather closed his eyes, 
feeling his pelt prickle with anxiety at 
Bramblestar’s obvious inexperience. // 
he’d had dealings with Onestar before, 


he would know that’s the worst thing to 
try. Onestar wont let any cat force his 
paw. 

Onestar’s calm air of superiority 
vanished entirely at Bramblestar’s 
words. His tabby fur bushed up until he 
looked twice his size, and he laid his 
ears flat against his head. “You can’t 
insist that I do anything,” he snarled. “I 
feel sorry for ThunderClan, stuck with 
you as leader, when every cat knows the 
bad blood you’ ve inherited.” 

Crowfeather couldn’t repress a gasp. 
Onestar must have really lost control to 
let himself mention Bramblestar’s evil 
father, Tigerstar. Glancing at his 
Clanmates, he saw that they were gazing 
at their leader with wide, shocked eyes, 


as if they, too, couldn’t believe what 
they had just heard. 

Its not fair to  Bramblestar, 
Crowfeather thought. He only came here 
to offer his help. 

“And you’re bringing that up now?” 
Bramblestar asked, dangerously quiet. 

Onestar let out a snort of contempt. 
“Your father killed Firestar in the Dark 
Forest. You must be so proud of him! If 
not for his savagery, you might never 
have become leader. Did you and 
Tigerstar make that plan together?” 

Crowfeather caught his breath as he 
saw Bramblestar’s neck fur begin to 
rise, and he feared briefly that he might 
attack the WindClan leader. There was 
such fury burning in the depths of his 


amber eyes. His muscles rippled under 
his dark tabby pelt as he gathered 
himself for a leap. Just as Crowfeather 
braced himself to step between the two 
quarreling cats, Bramblestar made a 
massive effort to control himself: But the 
air still sang with tension as the two 
leaders glared at each other. 

“We should just leave,” Jayfeather 
repeated. “This is going nowhere. We 
tried to help.” 

Bramblestar relaxed slightly. “Very 
well. But hear this, Onestar,” he 
growled. “You’ve made it clear that our 
two Clans are not allies. Remember that 
when the threat in the tunnels turns out to 
be too much for you to handle on your 
own. Remember that we offered to help, 


and you turned us away and insulted us.” 
Onestar let out his breath in a 
derisive huff. “Why would I remember 
such a weak, useless Clan?” 
Bramblestar ignored him, and after a 
moment the ThunderClan group headed 
out of the camp, their anger and 
frustration obvious in every hair of their 
pelts. Onestar waved his tail to order 
Gorsetail and Furzepelt to escort them. 
Once they were on their way, 
Onestar turned to Crowfeather, his eyes 
narrowing in a gaze of disapproval. 
“Was that necessary?” Crowfeather 
asked. “ThunderClan won’t work with 
us now, and if that’s not bad enough, 
we’ve got a hostile relationship with 
them. Who knows what will happen?” 


“Unfortunately, it was necessary.” 
Onestar spat out each word. “Because 
one of my warriors gave ThunderClan 
information they had no right to. Who 
would have thought that Breezepelt 
would turn out to be more trustworthy 
than his father? As for you, Crowfeather, 
you're getting under my fur. I’m warning 
you, put one more paw out of line, and 
you'll be in real trouble!” 

He whipped around and stalked back 
into his den with a single lash of his tail. 
Crowfeather was left to watch the 
ThunderClan cats growing smaller as 
they crossed the camp and climbed the 
far slope, to vanish at last onto the moor. 
His heart twisted at the sight of his 
ThunderClan sons stalking off with their 


backs to him. 

We couldn't be more divided. 

Harespring gave Crowfeather an 
apologetic glance. “It will be all right,” 
he meowed. 

“Pm not so sure about that,” 
Crowfeather retorted. “Look, 
Harespring, you’re Onestar’s deputy. 
Can’t you make him see sense? Can’t 
you tell him that we’ll never get rid of 
the stoats if we don’t have 
ThunderClan’s help?” 

“I can’t do that!” Harespring’s eyes 
stretched wide and his tail bushed out in 
shock. “I’m loyal to Onestar. It’s my duty 
to see that my Clan leader’s orders are 
carried out.” 

Even if your Clan leader is being 


mouse-brained? Crowfeather knew that 
there was no point in speaking his 
thought out loud. This is what comes of 
making a Dark Forest cat deputy. 
Harespring was so desperate to prove 
his loyalty that he didn’t dare put a paw 
wrong. Instead of making Onestar think 
about his decisions—even if eventually 
he had to accept them—he was 
following where Onestar led without 
question. 

“Just think about what I’ve said,” 
Crowfeather pleaded. 

“There’s no need to think,” 
Harespring snapped. “Onestar has got 
this. I told you, everything will be all 
right.” He stalked off, calling to his 
apprentice. 


Crowfeather felt even more uneasy, 
his pelt prickling from ears to tail-tip. 
He wondered whether Harespring was 
just trying to convince himself. He 
wondered too whether he had fully 
understood Ashfoot and Feathertail’s 
advice. 

I’m not a medicine cat, he told 
himself. What if that was just a dream, 
and not a message from StarClan? Or 
what if I misinterpreted the message? 
He let out a growl of frustration. Now 1 
have no idea how all this will end. 

But Crowfeather couldn’t stifle the 
feeling that it would not end well. 


Night had fallen, and Crowfeather 
was plumping up the bedding in his nest 


when Harespring came into the warriors’ 
den and padded over to him. 

“Onestar wants you to escort 
Kestrelflight to the half-moon meeting,” 
he announced. 

A jolt of surprise struck Crowfeather 
like the blow from an outstretched paw. 
“Onestar’s overreacting a little, isn’t 
he?” he asked. “Sending a warrior to 
escort a medicine cat? That’s just 
making a big deal of showing that he 
doesn’t trust ThunderClan. Okay, there’s 
some tension between us, but would any 
cat attack medicine cats?” 

Harespring shrugged. “Probably not, 
but what can you do? That’s what 
Onestar wants.” 

If you ask me, Crowfeather thought, 


Onestar just wants to get under 
ThunderClans fur. But he remembered 
Onestar’s warning. He couldn’t risk 
disobeying his Clan leader again, not 
after the disaster that had followed last 
time. 

“Thats fine,” he responded to 
Harespring. “Ill go find him now.” 

Part of Crowfeather was pleased at 
the prospect of trekking up to the 
Moonpool with Kestrelflight; he and the 
medicine cat had always gotten along 
well. And it would be something to take 
his mind off Breezepelt and the stoats. 

When he reached the medicine-cat 
den, Kestrelflight was waiting outside. 
He gave Crowfeather a friendly nod as 
he approached, and the two toms padded 


side by side up the slope and out of the 
camp 


“How is Featherpaw?” Crowfeather 
asked, feeling slightly guilty that he 
hadnt been to see her since 
Bramblestar’s disastrous visit. 

“Doing very well,” Kestrelflight 
replied cheerfully. “She’s still sleeping, 
but her breathing is much stronger, and 
her wounds are healing nicely. I’ve left 
Sedgewhisker with her while I’m at the 
Moonpool, but Pm not expecting any 
problems.” 

“That’s good to hear.” 

But the reassuring news about his 
apprentice wasn’t enough to distract 
Crowfeather from the hostile reaction he 
was likely to get from ThunderClan. 


“There’s going to be trouble behind 
this,” he murmured after a while. “You 
don’t need a warrior to escort you as if 
you were a kit. The other medicine cats 
won’t like it.” 

“You mean Jayfeather won’t like it,” 
Kestrelflight meowed. “I wasn’t there 
when Bramblestar appeared with the 
other ThunderClan cats, but I heard all 
about it. I hate to say this about my Clan 
leader, but I think this time Onestar has it 
wrong.” 

“Why?” Crowfeather asked, giving 
Kestrelflight a sharp look. “Have you 
had any more visions about the tunnels?” 

Kestrelflight shook his head. “I’ve 
had some upsetting dreams,” he replied, 
“but I think they’re just dreams, not 


visions. Still, PI feel better when the 
stoats are driven from the tunnels.” 

And thats not going to happen 
without ThunderClan, Crowfeather 
thought. 

For all his worries, it felt good to be 
padding across the moor, invigorated by 
the brisk wind blowing through his fur. 
The short springy grass was silvered by 
the light of the half-moon, with the stars 
blazing overhead in a clear sky. 
Crowfeather liked the idea that the 
warriors of StarClan were watching 
over them, caring for their Clans as they 
had when they were alive, sending their 
advice to the medicine cats through 
dreams and visions. 

His pelt warmed as he remembered 


Feathertail, and the love for him that had 
shone from her eyes. Surely that was a 
true vision, and not just a dream? 

“Tell me about your dreams,” he 
mewed curiously to Kestrelflight. “How 
do you know when they mean something, 
instead of just being nonsense?” 

Kestrelflight’s tail curled up in 
amusement. “I suppose it’s part of being 
a medicine cat,” he answered. “But 
usually I just . . . know. I can feel it.” 

For a moment Crowfeather was 
silent, thinking that over. Then he 
continued, “I’m not a medicine cat, so 
all the dreams I have are just 
nonsense . . . right?” 

“Not necessarily,” Kestrelflight 
replied. “Dreams can tell us_ things, 


whether theyre a message from 
StarClan or not—perhaps things we’re 
trying to tell ourselves.” 

Crowfeather shook his head, more 
confused than ever. For a while the two 
cats plodded on side by side, reaching 
the stream and following it up into the 
hills where the Moonpool lay. To 
Crowfeather’s relief, there was no sign 
so far of any of the other medicine cats. 

“Tell me something, Kestrelflight,” 
he mewed at last. “Have you ever seen 
Ashfoot in StarClan?” 

The medicine cat shook his head 
apologetically. “No, not yet,” he replied. 
“But we lost so many cats in the Great 
Battle. It doesn’t mean anything. I just 
haven’t seen them all.” 


You havent seen her because she 
isnt there yet, Crowfeather thought, 
remembering what his mother had told 
him. Which means its true .. . she 
stayed behind to visit me in dreams. He 
swallowed hard. Doesnt that imply 
they mean something after all? 

“Tm really sorry about Nightcloud,” 
Kestrelflight went on after a few 
heartbeats. “It must be terrible, not 
knowing what happened to her.” 

Crowfeather nodded. He didn’t 
really want to talk about his former 
mate, but he was encouraged by 
Kestrelflight’s sympathetic look. He 
knew that the young medicine cat would 
listen without judging him. “It wasn’t 
right, our being mates,” he meowed 


hesitantly. “But I always assumed we’d 
have time to work out our problems and 
become friends. Now that can never 
happen.” 

Kestrelflight let out an understanding 
murmur. “I hear that some of our 
Clanmates suspect that Breezepelt had 
something to do with Nightcloud’s 
death,” he mewed hesitantly. 

Fury surged through Crowfeather and 
he lashed his tail. “No way is that true!” 

“T don’t believe it for a heartbeat,” 
Kestrelflight assured him. “Breezepelt 
loved Nightcloud.” 

Crowfeather nodded, his rage dying 
at Kestrelflight’s understanding. “More 
than any cat,” he responded. 

A comfortable silence fell as the two 


cats padded on together, farther into the 
hills. The slope was growing steeper, 
and the stream they followed was 
narrower, its water turned to silver as it 
leaped from rock to rock. Its gentle 
gushing was the only sound except for 
the soft pad of the cats’ paw steps. 

“I had an idea,” Kestrelflight went 
on after a while. “Do you remember, 
before the Great Battle, Dawnpelt of 
ShadowClan accused Jayfeather of 
murdering her brother Flametail?” 

“Yes, of course,’ Crowfeather 
replied, wondering why Kestrelflight 
was bringing that up now. 

“Jayfeather found Flametail in 
StarClan,” Kestrelflight meowed, “and 
got him to tell the other medicine cats 


that Jayfeather was innocent.” 


Suddenly understanding, 
Crowfeather halted and gazed wide- 
eyed at Kestrelflight. “Yes ... ,” he 
breathed out. 


“So tonight, when I dream my way 
into StarClan, I’m going to look for 
Nightcloud. If I find her, P1 ask her to 
tell the others what really happened to 
her, and that Breezepelt had nothing to 
do with it.” 

“Are you sure that will work?” 
Crowfeather asked. “Some cats are so 
determined to believe Breezepelt is 
guilty, Nightcloud herself could appear 
to all of them to tell them the truth, and 
they’d still have doubts,” he finished 
harshly, remembering how unfairly some 


of his Clanmates had treated Breezepelt. 
I treated him unfairly, too. 

“Of course.” Kestrelflight twitched 
his whiskers. “The Great Battle has 
made life hard for all of us, and we all 
recover in our own way. Different cats 
make up different stories to explain what 
happened. But Breezepelt is still among 
us, and he wants to be a loyal WindClan 
cat, so his name must be cleared.” His 
eyes narrowed. “No WindClan cat will 
accuse me of lying—or at least they’d 
better not.” 

“Thank you,” Crowfeather 
responded, impressed by the discovery 
of the young medicine cat’s more 
formidable side, and beginning to feel 
hopeful. It was reassuring, too, that 


another cat could feel the same way he 
did, and wanted to help. Maybe I have 
one friend, at least. And maybe for once 
we can take some good news back to 
our Clan. 


When Crowfeather and Kestrelflight 
reached the last rocky slope up to the 
Moonpool, the other medicine cats were 
just ahead of them. As he scrambled up 
the rocks, Crowfeather was acutely 
conscious of the group of them staring 
down at him. 

“What are you doing here?” 
Jayfeather demanded, glaring at 
Crowfeather as the two WindClan cats 
reached the row of bushes that edged the 
hollow of the Moonpool. “This place 


isn’t for warriors.” 

“Pm not the first warrior to come 
here,’ Crowfeather retorted, guessing 
that Jayfeather was angry with him for 
convincing him to lead Bramblestar into 
Onestar’s unjustified attack. 

“And the others had good reason,” 
Jayfeather snapped. “What’s yours?” 

Crowfeather felt awkward as he 
searched for an answer. He didn’t want 
to admit that Onestar had made an error 
in judgment. “Does it matter?” he asked 
eventually, wishing he could have a 
conversation with one of his sons 
without getting into an argument. 

He wondered, too, what was the 
right way to be a loyal WindClan 
warrior. Do I just obey Onestar, as he 


seems to think, or do I speak up when I 
think he’s wrong? 

“No, it really doesn’t,” Leafpool 
murmured in response to Crowfeather’s 
question, resting the tip of her tail lightly 
on Jayfeather’s shoulder. “Come on, 
we’re wasting moonlight.” 

“Well, he’s not coming down to the 
pool,” Willowshine of RiverClan put in, 
giving Crowfeather a hostile stare. She 
was alone, Crowfeather noticed; for 
some reason Mothwing hadn’t come 
with her. “PIl claw your pelt off if you 
try.” 

Huh! Like you could! Crowfeather 
thought. 

Littlecloud of ShadowClan shook his 
head testily. ““We’re medicine cats,” he 


told Willowshine. “We don’t claw pelts. 
But she’s right,’ he added to 
Crowfeather. “You stay here, outside the 
hollow.” 

“Fine,” Crowfeather snapped. “I 
have no interest in your little get- 
together, so you can all relax. I’d rather 
be home sleeping, believe me.” 

With a last huff of annoyance, 
Jayfeather turned and stalked up to the 
bushes, his scrawny frame slipping 
easily between the branches. Leafpool 
gave Crowfeather a sympathetic look as 
she followed, and Crowfeather dipped 
his head in return, no longer trying to 
explain. Leafpool always understood 
me. 

Kestrelflight was the last of the cats 


to push his way through. “I won’t 
forget,” he promised Crowfeather before 
he disappeared. 

Left alone, Crowfeather settled 
himself in the shelter of the bushes, his 
paws tucked under him while he looked 
out across the moon-washed landscape. 
He could see the dips and swells of the 
moor, and far away in the distance a 
dark mass that must be the forest. Behind 
him he could hear the soft splashing of a 
waterfall, and imagined the starlit 
cascade falling endlessly into the 
Moonpool. After a short while, he slept. 

Once again he was in the tunnels, 
following Ashfoot, who whisked around 
the corners ahead of him in a swirl of 


pale light. 


“What are you trying to tell me 
now?” he called after her. “Are you 
really here, or am I just dreaming?” 

But Ashfoot didn’t reply. This time 
she led him out of the darkness and 
through a forest filled with translucent 
dawn mist. Dew-laden grass brushed at 
Crowfeather’s pelt and soaked it as he 
trod in his mother’s paw steps. 

“Where are you taking me?” he 
asked Ashfoot. 

His mother did not reply. Instead she 
halted at the top of a shallow dip in the 
ground, and waved Crowfeather on with 
a swish of her tail. Looking down into 
the hollow, Crowfeather recognized the 
pool at the bottom, surrounded by ferns, 
where he had found Nightcloud’s blood 


and her scent, almost overwhelmed by 
the reek of fox. 

Horrified, Crowfeather turned back 
toward Ashfoot. “Why?” 

But his mother had disappeared. 
Reluctantly, every step an_ effort, 
Crowfeather padded down toward the 
edge of the pool. Before he reached it, 
the fern fronds stirred slightly, and he 
saw that a cat was lying among them. A 
black she-cat, with blood pulsing from a 
wound inher side... 

“Nightcloud ... ,” he whispered. 

Nightcloud raised her head to look at 
him, fury glaring from her eyes. “Don’t 
you see me?” she hissed. “Don’t you?” 

Crowfeather jerked into 
wakefulness. His legs were shaking and 


his heart was pounding as if it was going 
to burst out of his chest. What does it 
mean? he asked himself. He heard an 
echo of Nightcloud’s words in his mind, 
and desperately tried to hold on to her 
fading image. Grief stabbed at him as 
they slipped away from him like water 
through his paws. Have I missed 
something? 

The sound of paw steps and the 
murmuring voices of cats came from 
behind the barrier of bushes. 
Crowfeather sprang to his paws and 
gave his pelt a shake, desperate not to 
show how distraught he was. Jf I had to 
explain myself to Jayfeather .. . 

His ThunderClan son was the first 
cat to emerge from the bushes. He swept 


one sightless glance across Crowfeather 
and then ignored him, leaping sure- 
pawed down the rocky slope. Leafpool 
followed, giving a polite dip of her head 
to Crowfeather, with Willowshine and 
Littlecloud after her. 

Kestrelflight was the last to emerge. 
As soon as Crowfeather saw him, he 
knew that something had happened. The 
medicine cat was bristling with 
excitement, and his eyes shone like small 
moons. 

“Did you find her?” Crowfeather 
demanded, stepping up to him. 

Kestrelflight paused, checking that 
the other medicine cats were on their 
way home, well out of earshot. “Ashfoot 
or Nightcloud?” he asked. 


“Either. Both.” But Ashfoot couldn't 
be in StarClan, he reminded himself. 
She was just with me, here. 

“Well, I didn’t see Ashfoot .. .” 
Kestrelflight was drawing out his news, 
almost teasingly. “But I found Barkface. 
And he said that Nightcloud isn’t 
anywhere in StarClan. That means that 
there must be hope for her!” 

Crowfeather stared at him, briefly 
confused. He wondered, could 
Nightcloud be with Ashfoot, trapped 
between here and StarClan? Could she, 
too, be trying to tell him something? But 
then he realized that if that were true, 
Ashfoot would have told him long 
before. He had given up on Nightcloud 
too easily. She asked me, “Dont you 


see me?” Is this what she meant? 
Crowfeather’s grief gave way to a 
great surge of hope and optimism, like a 
massive wave carrying him away. 
Shes alive! 





CHAPTER 18 
E 


~v 


The sun was rising, shining palely 
through a thin covering of cloud, when 
Crowfeather staggered back into camp, 
exhausted after his trek across the moor 
and the excitement of discovering that 
Nightcloud might be alive. 

Yawning and foggy from lack of 
sleep, Crowfeather’s first instinct was to 
look for Breezepelt. At last I have some 
good news to tell him! And if 
Nightclouds alive, we have to figure 
out why she hasn t come back. 

But as he headed for the warriors’ 
den, Crowfeather spotted a group of cats 


clustered around the medicine-cat den, 
and his ears pricked at the sound of their 
excited chatter. He exchanged a puzzled 
glance with Kestrelflight. 

“That’s odd... ,” the medicine cat 
murmured. He bounded over to join their 
Clanmates, and Crowfeather followed. 

“What’s going on?” he asked 
Whitetail. 

The small white elder turned to him 
with gleaming eyes. “Featherpaw is 
awake!” she purred. 

A huge wave of relief surged through 
Crowfeather. “That’s great news!” he 
exclaimed. 

Kestrelflight had already vanished 
into his den. Crowfeather thrust his way 
through the crowd of cats until he came 


to the entrance. As he reached it, the 
medicine cat reappeared in the cleft, 
looking pleased and harassed at the 
same time. 

“No, you cant come in,” he 
meowed, speaking in general to all his 
Clanmates. “Featherpaw is going to be 
fine, but she needs rest and quiet. Go 
hunt, or kill a few stoats or something, 
but don’t hang around here.” 

Crowfeather was about to withdraw 
again, then halted as Kestrelflight 
spotted him and beckoned him with a 
wave of his tail. “You can come in, 
Crowfeather,” he mewed. “She wants to 
see you.” 

Crowfeather was aware of one or 
two disapproving hisses as he slipped 


into the den behind Kestrelflight, but he 
ignored them. He felt too happy to start a 
quarrel with any Clanmate. / got 
Featherpaw into this mess, and she still 
wants to see me! 

Sedgewhisker and Emberfoot were 
crouching beside the apprentice’s nest, 
relief and excitement in their eyes. They 
rose to their paws as Kestrelflight 
entered, leading Crowfeather. 
Sedgewhisker bent her head over her 
daughter and murmured, “We’ll fetch you 
some fresh-kill and a nice clump of wet 
moss.” She and Emberfoot slipped past 
Crowfeather; to his relief, they didn’t 
notice him as he drew back into the 
shadows beside the den wall. 

When they had left, Crowfeather 


padded forward to see Featherpaw lying 
in her nest of moss and bracken; she 
raised her head and blinked sleepily at 
Crowfeather as he approached. 

“Featherpaw, I’m so sorry I put you 
in danger,” Crowfeather mewed, 
crouching down beside her. 

His apprentice’s eyes stretched 
wider at his words. “But you didn’t!” 
she protested. “I don’t remember much 
of what happened, but I know it wasn’t 
your fault. Hootpaw and I and the others 
decided we wanted to be in the battle. 
You didn’t force us to do anything.” 

“But Pm your mentor. I shouldn’t 
have told you to be so aggressive. I put 
you in danger, and—” 

“No,” Featherpaw interrupted. “That 


was just advice, and it was good advice. 
The other apprentices and I made the 
choice to join in the battle. We were 
angry at being left out, and when we got 
there, we thought the stoats didn’t look 
so threatening—but we were wrong. 
You’re the best mentor in all the Clans!” 

I wish that were true, Crowfeather 
thought. “I’m just glad you’re going to be 
okay,” he mewed huskily, touching his 
nose to hers. 

Featherpaw closed her eyes and let 
out a drowsy sigh. “T’ll be fine.” 

Crowfeather crept quietly away; as 
he left the den, he came face to face with 
Sedgewhisker and Emberfoot returning. 
Sedgewhisker was carrying a plump 
mouse, while Emberfoot had a bundle of 


dripping moss. 

Feeling awkward, Crowfeather 
stepped back, but this time there was no 
avoiding them in the narrow opening. He 
braced himself for Featherpaw’s parents 
to blame him again for her injuries. Then 
he realized that they looked just as 
uncomfortable, clearly finding it hard to 
meet his gaze. 

“Pm SOITY, Crowfeather,” 
Sedgewhisker mewed, setting down her 
prey. “We were too hard on you before.” 

“I deserved it,” §Crowfeather 
responded with a dip of his head. “Part 
of it, at least.” 

“No cat could have deserved what 
we Said to you,” Sedgewhisker insisted. 
“Tt’s just that she’s our kit, and we were 


so worried... .” 

“I understand,” Crow feather 
reassured her. “I care about her, and I’m 
just her mentor. I can only imagine how 
you felt.” As he spoke, he saw the deep 
concern and caring in the eyes of 
Featherpaw’s parents, and realized again 
how long he had withheld that from his 
own son. 

A bright image flashed into his mind, 
of Breezepelt bumbling around the camp 
as a kit, falling over his own paws and 
chasing his tail. He had been so lovable, 
so vulnerable, and Crowfeather 
remembered how intensely he had 
wanted to protect him. But he had held 
back from loving him as a father should. 
I was afraid to love any cat. 


Emberfoot’s voice drew him out of 
the memory. “I know you do your best to 
train Featherpaw,” the gray tom was 
meowing, speaking with difficulty 
around his mouthful of wet moss. “If you 
could just . . . in the future . . . be a bit 
more careful?” 

Crowfeather felt a twinge of 
annoyance. 7 tried to be careful! And 
apprentices have to learn. But he 
remembered in time that Emberfoot was 
a father who had just nearly lost his kit. 
He could understand that, after his fear 
for Lionblaze in the Great Battle, or for 
Breezepelt wounded by the stoats. He 
responded in a heartfelt tone, “I would 
never want any more harm to come to 
Featherpaw. From now on, PIH do 


everything I can to protect her.” 

Emberfoot gave him an approving 
nod, and the two cats headed into the den 
to see their daughter. 

Turning away, Crowfeather spotted 
Breezepelt with Weaselfur and 
Larkwing, padding over to the fresh-kill 
pile, their jaws loaded with prey. At 
last! Crowfeather thought. J cant wait 
to see Breezepelts face when I tell him 
about Nightcloud! 

He waited until the other two 
warriors had moved away before joining 
Breezepelt and beckoning him over to a 
quiet corner behind the nursery. 

“What now?” Breezepelt asked, 
sounding surprised. 

Crowfeather took a deep breath, 


remembering what Kestrelflight had told 
him the night before. He hoped 
Breezepelt wouldn’t get his hopes up too 
much, imagining that they would 
discover where Nightcloud went and 
bring her home: It would crush him so 
badly if his mother turned out to be dead 
after all. 

“You know I went with Kestrelflight 
to the Moonpool last night?” he 
meowed. Breezepelt nodded. 
“Kestrelflight said that he would look 
for Nightcloud in StarClan, and . . . she 
isn’t there. That could mean she’s 
alive!” 

Breezepelt took in a sharp, gasping 
breath, but for a moment he didn’t say 
anything. Crowfeather couldn’t tell what 


he was thinking. 

“I truly thought she was gone,” he 
explained, assuming his son would be 
angry that he hadn’t searched harder. 
“Tm sorry... Pm still not entirely sure 
what it means, but I didn’t mean to make 
you grieve unnecessarily.” 

Breezepelt shook his head, and 
Crowfeather realized that he was more 
confused than angry. “No . . . that’s 
okay.” He met his father’s gaze, and 
Crowfeather saw hope begin to creep 
into his eyes. “I’m just glad we might 
still find her. This isn’t about us, 
Crowfeather. It’s about saving 
Nightcloud.” 

Crowfeather nodded, impressed by 
his son’s mature reaction. “I’ve been 


thinking about it, and if she’s alive,” he 
began, “there has to be some reason she 
isn’t coming back to us. She’s the most 
loyal WindClan cat there ever was. 
Suppose she’s trapped, or in danger? We 
need to start searching for her again, 
together.” 

Breezepelt licked one forepaw 
thoughtfully and drew it over his ear. 
“We had a hard enough time looking for 
her before. Where do you suggest we 
start?” 

“We'll have to go back to the spot on 
ThunderClan territory where I found her 
blood,” Crowfeather replied. 

Breezepelt let out a snort. “That 
should please Bramblestar!” 

“Well, I don’t intend to ask for 


Bramblestar’s permission,” Crowfeather 
mewed dryly. “Anyway, if she made it 
out of the tunnels and we haven’t found 
her—1it must have been over there.” 

“But it’s been a half-moon since 
then. Won’t her scent have faded by 
now?” 

“Maybe not.” Crowfeather hadn’t 
thought about that before. Afraid that his 
son was right, he struggled with 
disappointment, then braced himself, 
trying hard to sound optimistic. “It hasn’t 
rained since then. Anyway, it’s the best 
chance we have. Let’s go talk to 
Onestar.” 

Crowfeather led the way across the 
camp toward Onestar’s den and spotted 
the Clan leader just outside, in 





conversation with Harespring. As 
Crowfeather and Breezepelt 
approached, Harespring gave a brisk 
nod and bounded away toward the 
warriors’ den. 

“Well?” Onestar asked, turning 
toward Crowfeather. “What mouse- 
brained idea have you gotten into your 
head this time?” 

Crowfeather was aware that his 
leader still hadn’t forgiven him for going 
to ask ThunderClan to help. His tone 
was icy and his eyes narrowed, irritable. 
This is the worst possible time to ask 
him for a favor, Crowfeather thought 
worriedly. 

The Clan leader listened without 
comment as Crowfeather repeated his 


story of what  Kestrelflight had 
discovered at the Moonpool, and his 
intention to go with Breezepelt to search 
for Nightcloud. 

“Do you have bees in your brain, 
Crowfeather?” Onestar asked when he 
had finished. “You really think this 1s the 
right time to go trespassing on 
ThunderClan territory?” 

“Yes—if it’s the only way to find 
Nightcloud—” Breezepelt began 
desperately, before Crowfeather could 
respond. 

Onestar lashed his tail dismissively. 
“I care about Nightcloud too,” he 
meowed. “But she’s been missing for a 
long time, and you don’t really know 
where to look.” 


“We’ll start with the last place I 
found her scent,” Crowfeather mewed, 
his expression grim. Breezepelt stood 
beside him, eyeing Onestar expectantly. 
For that moment, at least, they were a 
united front. Onestar looked back and 
forth between the two of them and finally 
sighed in surrender. 

“Okay, I won’t stop you trying, but it 
will have to wait. Today we have more 
urgent matters to deal with.” He glared 
at Crowfeather. “As usual, you have to 
be reminded to put your Clan’s needs 
above your own.” 

“What urgent matters?” Crowfeather 
asked, ignoring Onestar’s jibe. He had 
accepted that Onestar would be angry 
with him for a long time to come, but that 


didn’t mean that Clan business would 
come to a halt. 

“Have you forgotten the stoats?” 
Onestar asked, a sarcastic edge to his 
voice. “Or the conversation with 
Bramblestar yesterday?” 

No, how could I? Crowfeather 
reflected bitterly. J thought I was the 
only one who worried about them. 
Thats why I went to ThunderClan in 
the first place. 

“We have to get rid of the stoats 
before they cause ThunderClan to 
meddle even more,” his Clan leader 
went on. “That might be what 
Kestrelflight’s vision meant. After all, 
the dark water emerged from our end of 
the tunnels, which meant it could have 


come from ThunderClan, right? What if 
the vision was warning us to be 
suspicious of our closest neighbors? 
Maybe their new leader, Bramblestar, is 
the biggest threat to us. Maybe the 
engulfing water means that ThunderClan 
will take over our territory and drive us 
out.” 

And maybe our Clan leader can't 
see beyond the end of his own whiskers, 
Crowfeather thought sourly. Z know 
ThunderClan is annoying, but would 
they really attack us now, so soon after 
the Great Battle? Sure, they might— 
and hedgehogs might fly! 

Once again, Crowfeather felt himself 
being tugged apart. As a loyal warrior, 
should he follow his leader 


unquestioningly, or speak his mind if he 
thought the leader was wrong? Mindful 
that he wasn’t Onestar’s favorite cat 
right now, he struggled to listen in 
silence as Onestar continued. 

“This is our plan: We’re going to 
block up the tunnel entrances with twigs, 
rocks, and brush—anything we can 
find.” 

Crowfeather cringed. That wouldn't 
even make sense if the stoats were our 
only problem. 

“It'll be a tough project, and we’ll 
need every warrior to help,” Onestar 
added with a hard glare at Crowfeather 
and Breezepelt, “but it’s the best way to 
deal with the stoats—and it will stop 
ThunderClan using the tunnels to spy on 


99 


us. 

“That’s the most mouse-brained plan 
I’ve ever heard!” some cat exclaimed, 
and Crowfeather realized with horror 
that it had been him. His disgust at what 
he had just heard must have driven out 
all thoughts of being tactful, or of not 
getting deeper into trouble with Onestar. 
Well, its too late to take it back now. 
He took in a breath and went on, 
“Haven't you thought it through at all?” 

“Thought it through?” Onestar 
repeated, his voice dangerously quiet. 
“Maybe I haven’t. Give us the benefit of 
your wisdom, Crowfeather.” 

Crowfeather flicked his ear, 
uncomfortable. It seemed clear that 
calling Onestar’s plan mouse-brained 


hadn’t been exactly . . . sensible. 
Breezepelt was staring at him, wide- 
eyed with shock, and one or two other 
cats were drifting toward them, drawn 
by the sudden tension and the way 
Onestar’s fur was lifting all along his 
spine. 

But I cant stop now. I have to tell 
him what I think! 

“Blocking the entrances probably 
won’t stop the stoats,’ Crowfeather 
continued. “They'll just push the 
blockages away from the inside. Or, if 
they don’t, theyll be driven out to hunt 
on ThunderClan’s side—and how do you 
think Bramblestar will react to that?” 

Onestar swiped his tongue over his 
jaws as if he had just swallowed a 


succulent bit of prey. “That’s the best 
part of the plan,” he purred. “I’m just in 
the mood to send Bramblestar a little 
present. Let’s see how he likes stoats 
marauding all over his territory.” 

“Then you’re even more mouse- 
brained than I thought,’ Crowfeather 
meowed roughly. “And if no other cat is 
prepared to tell you that, I will. Trouble 
with ThunderClan is the last thing we 
want right now. I don’t think StarClan 
wants any of the Clans to treat each other 
as enemies.” 

“So you’re a medicine cat all of a 
sudden?” Onestar asked, his voice still 
deceptively calm, contrasted with his 
bristling fur and glaring eyes. “How 
lucky I am to have you to advise me!” 


“I don’t need to be a medicine cat to 
know that you’re leading our Clan into 
danger,” Crow feather snapped. 
“Bramblestar came to offer 
ThunderClan’s help—and  StarClan 
knows we need it—but instead you 
turned him down and insulted him, and 
now you're looking for ways to 
antagonize them. We should be making 
ThunderClan our ally!” 

Onestar drew his lips back into a 
snarl. Faced with his fury, it was all 
Crowfeather could do not to take a step 
backward. 

“Very well, Crowfeather,” he 
growled. “Ive warned you, over and 
over, and I’m not warning you again. If 
you like ThunderClan so much, you can 


go and look for Nightcloud on their 
territory. In fact, go wherever you want 
—just not here. I don’t want to see you 
in WindClan!” 

“What?” For a moment Crowfeather 
felt unsteady on his paws, as if some 
creature had hurled a rock at him. “Am 


I...” He couldn’t bring himself to 
complete the question out loud. Am / 
being banished? 


“Do I have to repeat myself?” 
Onestar hissed. “I think you need some 
time alone to think about what makes a 
loyal warrior, Crowfeather. And until 
you do, I don’t want you in our camp and 
on our territory. For the next quarter 
moon... you are not a WindClan cat! 
Take some time and think about your 


actions. When you think you’ve figured 
out where you went wrong, you may 
request my permission to return.” 

So I am being banished? 
Crowfeather swallowed hard, barely 
able to believe this was happening. But 
not really banished. Only for a few 
days . . . He looked around and found 
himself in the middle of a crowd of 
bewildered, staring cats. But to come 
back, I’ll have to grovel, he realized. 
Onestar wants to make me swallow my 
pride. 

He noticed that Breezepelt, at the 
front of the group, looked shocked out of 
his fur, his eyes wide and his pelt 
bristling. 

Some cat speak up for me, 


Crowfeather begged silently. You know 
I’m loyal . . . I’m WindClan through 
and through! I’ve given up so much for 
this Clan! Tell him! Tell him he’s being 
unreasonable! 

But no cat spoke. It seemed that no 
cat was willing to risk Onestar’s ire. . . 
not for Crowfeather. 

Not even Breezepelt, Crowfeather 
thought ruefully. And just as I thought 
we might be getting closer. Hes 
probably glad to get a break from me. 

As his shock faded, anger settled 
over Crowfeather. Well, nice try, 
Onestar! If this is a battle of wills, I’m 
sure mine is stronger. I’m not going to 
apologize when lm right. . . . 

He braced himself, meeting 


Onestar’s furious gaze with his head 
held high. 

“Permission to return!” he snapped. 
“Ha! If WindClan doesn’t need me, then 
I don’t need WindClan.” 

He turned, thrust his way through the 
crowd, and stalked up the slope toward 
the edge of the camp. 

No cat called him back. 





CHAPTER 19 
» 


~v 


Walking without thinking, Crowfeather 
headed across the moor toward the 
border stream that divided WindClan 
territory from ThunderClan. The early 
morning sun had vanished; clouds were 
massing above the hills, gray and heavy, 
and so low they almost seemed to skim 
the top of the pile of memorial stones. 
As he drew closer to the stream, 
Crowfeather tried to recover from his 
shock and think this through. Where 
should I go? He stopped. Where does a 
cat with no Clan go? If I ever wanted to 
try my luck with another Clan, I 


suppose this would be my chance... . 

For a moment he imagined himself 
crossing into ThunderClan territory, 
heading for their camp, and offering 
himself to Bramblestar as a ThunderClan 
warrior. 

Leafpool will be there... . 

But it took only a few moments for 
Crowfeather to realize how stupid that 
would be. Leafpool hadn’t loved him for 
seasons, and if he was honest, his love 
for her had faded, too. If anything, he 
missed the way he had felt when he 
loved her—how young and foolish and 
hopeful they had been. Besides, asking 
the ThunderClan medicine cat to be his 
mate would be the quickest way to get 
himself banished from yet another Clan. 


Bramblestar won't take kindly to my 
showing up, announcing my sudden 
loyalty to ThunderClan, and then 
taking one of their medicine cats. 

It would never work. Besides, in 
ThunderClan he would have to deal with 
Lionblaze and Jayfeather, and StarClan 
alone knew how that relationship could 
be anything but a disaster. 

Bramblestar probably wouldnt 
want me...and I’m not a ThunderClan 
cat, he added, struggling not to feel sorry 
for himself. A hollow place seemed to 
open up inside him. /’ve been WindClan 
all my life. If I’m not a WindClan cat 
anymore, what am I? 

Crowfeather reached the border 
stream and stood on the bank for a 


moment, unsure what to do. He bent his 
head and lapped the icy water, delaying 
for a few heartbeats the time he would 
have to move on. Then he turned and 
headed upward, away from the lake, 
away from ThunderClan, making for the 
open moor. He couldn’t stifle the 
memory of setting out from here with 
Leafpool, once, long ago, when he had 
believed that they could leave their 
Clans behind them and make a new life 
together. 

I was so happy then. 

But now all that was left to 
Crowfeather was bitterness. Leafpool 
had abandoned him to return to her Clan 
and her duty as a medicine cat. He had 
taken another mate, a cat of his own 


Clan, but he had never really loved 
Nightcloud, and his relationship with 
Breezepelt was clearly a mess. All that 
had remained to him was his Clan, and 
now that was gone, too. 

I gave up so much for WindClan, he 
thought, and this is the way it ends. I 
spoke the truth to Onestar, and he 
banished me for it. 

Crowfeather knew he was right: It 
was a mouse-brained idea to block up 
the tunnels and antagonize ThunderClan. 
But no cat had listened to him, or spoken 
up for him. Not even Breezepelt. 

Some son he turned out to be! I 
must have had bees in my brain to think 
I could ever mean as much to him as 
Nightcloud did. 


WindClan scent drifted into 
Crowfeather’s nose, and he realized he 
was approaching the border with the 
moorland. Beyond that was unknown 
territory. He halted on the border, but 
before he could take the final step that 
would cut him off from his Clan forever, 
he heard some cat calling his name. 

Crowfeather turned to see 
Heathertail bounding across the moor 
toward him, with Breezepelt a few paw 
steps behind. His muscles tensed and he 
dug his claws into the ground as he stood 
waiting for them. 

“What do you want?” he asked 
harshly as the two cats skidded to a halt 
and stood panting in front of him. 

“Onestar led the Clan down to the 


tunnels to start blocking the entrances,” 
Heathertail explained, her chest heaving 
as she fought for breath. “We slipped 
away and picked up your scent trail.” 

The bitter pain in Crowfeather’s 
heart eased a little, to think that 
Heathertail and Breezepelt had come 
looking for him, but he found it hard to 
respond. Breezepelt was standing a pace 
or two behind Heathertail, his gaze fixed 
on his paws, the familiar awkward, 
sullen expression on his face. He looked 
as if he didn’t want to be there, and at 
the sight of him Crowfeather’s heart 
hardened again. 

“Why would you do that?” he 
snapped. “You care enough to chase me, 
but not enough to speak up for me in 


front of Onestar? Well, thanks but no 
thanks.” He turned and began to continue 
on his way. 

“Wait!” he heard Breezepelt call 
behind him—a brief, desperate cry. 
When he paused and turned around, 
Breezepelt was looking at the ground— 
but Heathertail spoke. 

“We’re sorry we didn’t speak up for 
you, Crowfeather, but you made it pretty 
difficult. You may have been right—but 
a loyal warrior still respects his leader.” 

Crowfeather let out a derisive snort, 
but didn’t move. All right, he thought, 
LI hear them out. 

“After you left, we talked to 
Onestar,” Heathertail went on, casting a 
faintly exasperated glance over her 


shoulder at Breezepelt. “We wanted to 
give him time to cool down. He was 
hard on you, Crowfeather, but you gave 
it right back—telling him you don’t need 
WindClan. Did you really mean that?” 

Now it was Crowfeather’s turn to 
stare at the ground, clawing at an 
imaginary bug as though he were 
fascinated. At the time I did, he thought. 
But perhaps it was a flea-brained thing 
to say. 

Heathertail shook her head, seeming 
frustrated, and went on. “You’re not 
always the easiest cat to talk to, 
Crowfeather. Anyway, I think he’s sorry 
that he lost his temper with you. If you 
came back to camp tomorrow with some 
prey and apologized to him, I’m pretty 


sure he’d let you back into the Clan.” 

“Really?” In his relief, Crowfeather 
looked at Breezepelt, who still wouldn’t 
meet his eye. What, does he not want me 
to come back? Maybe he thought he 
was free of me... . “What do you think, 
Breezepelt?” he challenged his son. “Is 
Heathertail right?” 

Breezepelt scuffled his forepaws 
like an apprentice caught misbehaving. 
“Uh... I guess,” he muttered. 

“I guess”? The worst of 
Crowfeather’s suspicions confirmed, his 
fury exploded. “It’s obvious to see who 
doesn’t want me back!” he exclaimed. 
“You’ve barely said a thing this whole 
time. You’re just following the cat you 
love, trying to impress her with your 


17? 


loyalty to your foolish father 

Breezepelt looked up at him, a stung 
expression in his eyes. Hes 
embarrassed I caught on, Crowfeather 
thought. “And there’s no way I’m 
apologizing. I was right! And you both 
know it.” 

“Yes, sure, you were right.” 
Heathertail’s voice was soothing. “As I 
said. Most of the Clan thinks it’s a 
mouse-brained idea to block up the 
tunnels. But you still disrespected your 
Clan leader, in front of the rest of the 
Clan.” 

“Onestar deserved it!” Crowfeather 
snarled. Glaring at Breezepelt, he added, 
“Its better this way. I can have the 
freedom I’ve always wanted, and you 


can be free of me. Pm leaving, and 
WindClan will never have to worry 
about me again!” 

The two younger cats stared at him 
in silence for a moment. At last 
Heathertail mewed quietly, “What about 
looking for Nightcloud?” 

“You can look for Nightcloud,” 
Crowfeather retorted, trying to ignore 
the guilt that settled over him like a 
cloud of dust. “She won’t want to see me 
anyway.” Thats probably true, at least. 

“Of all the mouse-brained—” 
Breezepelt began angrily. 

Heathertail shook her head at him 
and silenced him with a touch of her tail- 
tip on his shoulder. “It’s no use, 
Breezepelt,” she murmured. “Not right 


99 


now.” Fixing Crowfeather with a 
sorrowful blue gaze, she added, “I’m 
sure there’ll be a way back for you, 
Crowfeather, if you want to take it. I 
hope that you do.” 

For a moment the young she-cat’s 
sympathy almost made Crowfeather give 
in. Then he pictured himself creeping 
back into the camp and groveling in front 
of Onestar. No way will I ever do that! 

“You'd better go,” he meowed 
curtly. “You don’t want Onestar to find 
out you’re missing. He’s in a lousy 
mood.” 

“Okay,” Heathertail sighed. “Come 
on, Breezepelt.” 

For a couple of heartbeats 
Breezepelt gazed at Crowfeather 


hesitantly, as if there was something he 
wanted to say. Crowfeather guessed that 
a word would have encouraged him, but 
he felt as though his throat were stopped 
up by a tough bit of prey, and no words 
would come. Finally Breezepelt ducked 
his head awkwardly; then the two young 
cats turned away and headed across the 
moor, back to the rest of the Clan. 
Crowfeather watched them go. 

Everything I said to them is true, he 
thought. J don t need WindClan. I don't 
even need my mouse-hearted son, 
Breezepelt, and I certainly dont need 
that mange-pelt Onestar. I'll show him! 
I can get along fine by myself. 

But the hollowness, the pain of loss 
inside him, wouldn’t go away. 


The shapes of Breezepelt and 
Heathertail dwindled and finally were 
lost to Crowfeather’s sight. At last he 
took a deep breath and stepped across 
the border, heading into unexplored 
territory. J suppose I’m a loner right 
now. 

As he traveled up a long moorland 
slope, the sky grew darker still, and he 
thought he could see tiny specks of white 
floating in front of his eyes. He blinked 
to clear his vision, but the white specks 
didn’t go away, and as one landed on his 
nose, the cold shock told him that they 
were the first tiny flakes of snow. 

“Mouse dung!” he grumbled aloud. 
“That’s all I need!” 

Crowfeather realized that if he 


wanted to hunt, he had better do so soon, 
before the snow drove every piece of 
prey into their holes. Aware of hunger 
for the first time since he left the camp, 
he padded on, setting down his paws 
even more lightly, his ears pricked and 
his jaws parted to taste the air. 

For a long time he found nothing. 
The flakes thickened, swirling around 
him, settling on the ground until he was 
plodding through snow a mouse-length 
deep. His paws were so cold he 
couldn’t feel them anymore. Snowflakes 
clotted in his dark gray pelt and clung to 
his whiskers. 

Crowfeather was thinking that he had 
better give up and start looking for a 
place to shelter when a hare started up 


almost underneath his paws. It fled up 
the hill, and Crowfeather hurled himself 
after it, his muscles bunching and 
stretching. His gaze fixed on the bobbing 
black tips of the hare’s ears, which were 
all that he could see clearly; the rest of 
its white pelt was almost invisible in the 
snow. 

The hare disappeared over the brow 
of the hill and Crowfeather followed. 
But as he raced downward, his hind legs 
skidded out from under him and he lost 
his balance. Letting out a yowl of shock, 
he rolled over and over down the slope, 
his legs flailing as he struggled to stop 
himself. 

Then Crowfeather felt a sharp pain 
in his head as his body slammed into 


something solid. The white world 
exploded into blackness, and he knew 
nothing more. 


Crowfeather found himself crouching 
in utter darkness. The pain in his head 
was overwhelming, and for a few 
moments he could do nothing but keep 
still, clenching his teeth to keep back 
moans of pain. 

At last he opened his eyes, but the 
darkness didn’t lift. Sheer panic pulsed 
through Crowfeather. Have I gone 
blind? 

He couldn’t smell or feel anything, 
but he sensed that a number of cats were 
gathered around him. Are they my 
Clanmates? he wondered wildly. Have 


they come to find me? 

At first the cats were still, but after a 
little while they began to move, weaving 
around him ina circle, so close that now 
and again he could feel their pelts 
brushing against his. 

At last one of them spoke, its voice 
low and gentle but somehow ominous. 
“Greetings, Crowfeather.” 

Now Crowfeather was sure that 
these were not WindClan cats. He 
struggled to rise to his paws and face 
them in the darkness, but his legs 
wouldn’t support him, and he slumped 
back to the ground. “Who are you?” he 
asked hoarsely. 

“You know who we are, 
Crow feather,” a second voice 


murmured. “You have met us before.” 

“No, I haven’t!” §Crowfeather 
protested. “Stop playing games and tell 
me what’s going on.” 

As he spoke, a dim light began to 
grow around him, pale and unhealthy 
like the shine of rotting wood. It was 
only enough to show him the outlines of 
the cats, still weaving around him, with 
here and there the gleam of predatory 
eyes. 

“Is this . . . is this the Dark Forest?” 
he stammered. 

“Clever Crowfeather,” a third voice 
purred. “We’re so glad you’ve come to 
join us.” 

“What? No!” Crowfeather lurched 
upward and this time managed to 


scramble to his paws. “I’m not going to 
join you. I’m not even dead!” 

“Not quite . . . ,” another voice 
breathed out. “But soon.” 

Crowfeather couldn’t remember ever 
having been so terrified, not even when 
he’d been trying to squeeze into the cleft, 
away from the cruel talons of 
Sharptooth. 7 know Onestar banished 
me, he thought frantically. But surely 
what I did wasn't so bad that I would 
end up here? If I have to die, I should 
be in StarClan! 

He was growing dizzy as he tried to 
watch the circling cats and work out 
where the voices were coming from. 

“Come with us, Crowfeather.” 

“Youre welcome here.” 


Crowfeather wanted to barrel his 
way through the circle and flee, but he 
knew that he didn’t have the strength. 
Besides, he had no idea where he could 
flee to. A medicine cat might know the 
paths that would lead him out of this 
dreadful place and into the sunlit 
territory of StarClan, but he wasn’t a 
medicine cat. 

Soft pelts brushed more firmly 
against his sides as the circle of cats 
grew tighter, closing in. Crowfeather 
forced back a screech of terror. “Leave 
me alone,” he gasped. “I’m not going 
with you!” 

But he knew that his bravado was 
pointless. There was nothing he could 
do. 


Now the light was strengthening, but 
this time it came from behind 
Crowfeather, casting his shadow out in 
front of him. With a sudden tingling of 
hope, he realized that this light was 
different, clear and silvery like the 
radiance of the full moon. 

The Dark Forest cats froze, staring 
with wide, horrified eyes at something 
beyond Crowfeather. Then, letting out a 
chorus of eerie caterwauls, they turned 
tail and fled. 

“Great StarClan, Crowfeather!” A 
familiar voice spoke behind him. “What 
have you gotten yourself into now?” 

Crowfeather whirled around. 
“Ashfoot!” he exclaimed. 





CHAPTER 20 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather s mother stepped 
delicately over to him and sat down 
beside him with her tail wrapped neatly 
around her paws. With a grunt of relief 
Crowfeather slumped to the ground 
beside her. 

“What in StarClan’s name do you 
think you’re doing, Crowfeather?” his 
mother asked him. Her voice was 
exasperated, but her eyes were warm. 
“You should be helping your Clan, not 
wandering about on the moor in the 
snow.” 

“You do know that I was banished, 


right?” Crowfeather retorted. “I was 
banished for following your advice, and 
Feathertail’s. You told me to go behind 
Onestar’s back and ask Bramblestar for 
help.” 

Ashfoot gave her whiskers a twitch, 
seeming briefly embarrassed. “I’m sorry. 
Pd hoped that Onestar wouldn’t refuse 
to let ThunderClan help, or insult 
Bramblestar. But, Crowfeather,” she 
added more briskly, “you know you 
could have been more tactful in dealing 
with Onestar. A good deputy needs to 
judge his leader’s mood.” 

“But Pm not deputy,” Crowfeather 
reminded her sourly. “Right now I’m not 
even a WindClan cat.” 

“That can be put right,” Ashfoot 


assured him, with a dismissive flick of 
her tail. “The most important thing is for 
you to convince Onestar to take 
Kestrelflight’s vision seriously. Don’t 
you remember the second wave of water, 
the one that engulfed all the Clans? 
Don’t you understand what it means? 
The stoats are threatening WindClan 
now, but they’re only the forerunner of a 
much greater threat.” 

“That’s what I thought! What threat?” 
Crowfeather asked, suppressing a 
shiver. 

“I don’t know,” Ashfoot admitted. 
“T’m not sure that even the warriors of 
StarClan can see so far ahead. But I 
know this—when trouble strikes, 
WindClan will need you.” 


Crowfeather let out a snort of 
disbelief. “I wish you would tell Onestar 
that! He doesn’t seem to need me at all 
right now.” 

“Then you have to make him see 
sense,” Ashfoot pointed out. “You need 
to stop worrying about yourself and start 
worrying about your Clan and the cats 
who love you.” 

““Love’?” Crowfeather tried to put 
all his contempt into the single word. “If 
any cats ‘love’ me, why didn’t they 
speak up to defend me?” 

“Don’t be such a daft furball!” 
Ashfoot scolded him. “Of course 
Breezepelt loves you! And there are 
many more cats who respect you— 
Heathertail, for one. Didn’t they come 


after you and try to persuade you to go 
back?” 

Crowfeather wasn’t sure that he 
believed his mother, but he wasn’t about 
to argue with her anymore. “But how can 
I put things right?” he asked her. 
“Those . . . those other cats—they said I 
was dying.” He shuddered, remembering 
the soft voices that had tempted him to 
go with them. 

“You won't die.” Ashfoot touched 
her nose to his ear. “It is not your time to 
journey to StarClan.” 

“Then... then I won’t end up in the 
Dark Forest?” 

Ashfoot’s tail curled up in 
amusement. “Crowfeather, you may be 
the most annoying furball in all four 


Clans, but not even your worst enemy 
could call you evil. Those cats were 
trying to trick you.” The light around her 
began to fade, and her pale shape began 
to blur in front of Crowfeather’s eyes. 

“Don’t go!” he begged. 

“Yow ll see me again,” Ashfoot 
mewed, her voice seeming to come from 
an immense distance. “For now, wake up 
and get on with it.” 


Crowfeather struggled to open his 
eyes; snow was crusting his lids, and a 
sharp pain stabbed through his head as if 
some cat were pounding it with a spike 
of rock. He was lying on his side; above 
him the broad head and muscular 
shoulders of a cat were outlined against 


the sky. 


With a hiss of defiance, Crowfeather 
tried to spring to his paws, but the 
explosion of pain in his head made him 
stagger and he sank to the ground again. 
He could feel a smooth wall of rock at 
his back. 

“Keep still, flea-brain,” the cat 
grunted. “I’m trying to fix your head.” 

Crowfeather became aware of some 
kind of sticky juice trickling into his 
head fur, and picked up the clean tang of 
some kind of herb. “Are you a medicine 
cat?” he asked, confused. 

“Why do cats keep asking me that? 
Pma cat who helps other cats.” 

Crowfeather felt even more 
bewildered as the pain in his head eased 


and his vision cleared. The cat tending 
to him was a huge tabby tom, with white 
chest and paws, and amber eyes fixed in 
concentration as he squeezed out the 
healing juices from a mouthful of leaves. 
Crowfeather had never set eyes on him 
before. 

“Who are you?” he asked. “You’re 
not a Clan cat.” 

The strange cat spat out the leaves 
and began to massage the juices into 
Crowfeather’s fur with one forepaw. 
“Oh, you’re one of those lunatics who 
live in the forest,” he meowed. “No, I’m 
not one of them. I like to keep myself to 
myself. My name’s Yew.” 

“You?” Crowfeather decided he was 
still in some weird dream. “Like ‘Hey, 


you?” 

“No, flea-brain,’ the tabby tom 
responded, with an exasperated twitch 
of his whiskers. “Yew, like the tree.” 

“Oh, sorry,” Crowfeather mewed, 
then added after a moment, “I’m 
Crow feather. Thanks for helping me.” 

“Youre welcome. I’ve learned a bit 
about patching up injured cats in my 
time, and I like to help out when I can.” 
Yew finished his massage and stood 
back, rubbing his paw in the snow to 
clean off the juices. “Try sitting up.” 

Crowfeather obeyed; his head swam, 
and every one of his muscles shrieked in 
protest, but he managed to stay upright. 
He found himself in the lee of a large, 
jutting outcrop of rocks, with only a thin 


powdering of snow covering the tough 
moorland grass. Beyond the shelter, all 
the hills were hidden in a thick layer of 
snow, the white expanse stretching in all 
directions as far as Crowfeather could 
see. More flakes were slowly drifting 
down. Though clouds hid the sun, he 
guessed that sunhigh would be long past. 

“How did you find me, in all this?” 
he asked. 

Yew looked thoughtful. “That was 
strange,” he replied. “I was hunting, 
down there on the edge of the forest. 
Then I saw a gray she-cat—the prettiest 
cat I ever laid eyes on. She beckoned me 
to follow her, and she brought me up 
here. But when we got here, I couldn’t 
find her . . . only you, half buried in the 


snow and looking just about dead.” For 
a moment his bold amber gaze softened. 
“Her fur glittered like stars... .” 

Feathertail! Warmth spread through 
Crowfeather from ears to tail-tip, as if 
he were basking in the sun of greenleaf. 
She saved me! Injured and unconscious 
in the snow, he would have frozen to 
death if no cat had found him. 

“Thank you,” he repeated. “I guess I 
would be dead if it weren’t for you.” 

Yew let out another grunt, looking 
faintly embarrassed. “I don’t know about 
that,” he muttered. “I guess you'll be fine 
once you have some prey inside you. 
Rest for a bit and Pll see what I can 
find.” 

He rose and loped off, vanishing 


around the other side of the rock. 

Crowfeather curled up in the shelter 
of the overhang. He was half afraid to 
sleep, remembering his dreadful vision 
of the Dark Forest cats. But he was too 
exhausted to fight off unconsciousness, 
and he was drowsing when the warm, 
delicious scent of rabbit drifted into his 
nose. He opened his eyes to see Yew 
dropping the limp body in front of him. 

“Come on, there’s enough for both of 
us,” he mewed. 

Crowfeather didn’t need telling 
twice. Hungrily he tore at the fresh-kill, 
savoring the juices and the rich taste of 
the flesh. This is the best prey I’ve ever 
eaten! he thought. “Thank you, StarClan, 
for this prey,” he mumbled around a huge 


mouthful. “And thank you, too, Yew.” 

“My pleasure.” Yew gulped down a 
few mouthfuls of the rabbit and 
continued, “You know, I came across 
another cat with the same scent as yours, 
a half-moon or so ago.” 

“You did?” Crowfeather felt his 
heart begin beating faster. “Where? What 
was she like?” 

Yew gave him a long look through 
narrowed eyes. “It sounds like you might 
know her,” he remarked. “She was a 
black she-cat—a pretty tough one, too.” 

Nightcloud! Crowfeather’s chest felt 
like it would burst. Could she really be 
alive? “Was she okay?” he asked 
eagerly. 

“No, she had a bad wound down one 


side,” Yew told him. “But she wasn’t 
letting it slow her down. She was quite 
ready to claw my fur off before I finally 
convinced her I meant her no harm.” He 
paused, then added, “She’s a friend of 
yours?” 

“She’s one of my Clan,” 
Crowfeather replied, not wanting to 
launch into an explanation of his 
complicated relationship with 
Nightcloud. “We were afraid she was 
dead. Where did you meet her?” 

“On the edge of the Twolegplace.” 

That reply made no sense to 
Crowfeather. The only Twolegplace he 
knew was the one between ShadowClan 
and RiverClan. He couldn’t imagine why 
Nightcloud would have gone there. 


“Across the lake?” he asked. 

Yew shook his head, giving 
Crowfeather the sort of look that 
Crowfeather himself might have given to 
a dim apprentice. “No, the one on the 
other side of the forest.” 

Crowfeather blinked, bewildered. “I 
don’t know that one.” 

“Tl show you.” Yew lumbered to 
his paws. “Can you climb the rock?” 

Crowfeather wasn’t at all sure. His 
head was still spinning as he rose, but 
Yew was already climbing upward, 
nimble for all his bulk. Crowfeather 
gritted his teeth and followed. To his 
relief, there were plenty of crevices in 
the rock where he could wedge his 
paws, and he managed to haul himself to 


the top. Yew bent his head and fastened 
his teeth in his scruff to drag him up the 
last tail-length. 

“Over there,’ Yew  meowed, 
pointing with his tail. 

Crowfeather looked out across the 
snow-covered landscape. The forest 
was a dark mass far below, and beyond 
it he could make out a stretch of uneven 
ground, which he realized was the 
Twolegplace Yew had spoken of, snow 
covering the pointed roofs of the Twoleg 
dens until they looked like small, steep 
hills. It was bigger than the one 
Crowfeather knew, beside the lake. A 
Thunderpath curved around it like a 
black snake, with monsters like tiny 
bright beetles moving to and fro along it. 


“Pd been down there visiting my 
housefolk,” Yew began. “I—” 

“Yow re a kittypet?” Crowfeather 
interrupted. This tough, competent cat 
is a kittypet? “I don’t believe it!” 

A purr of amusement rumbled in 
Yew’s chest. “Well, I drop in on my 
housefolk now and again,” he 
responded. “When I feel like it. It’s 
warm and comfortable there, but it’s 
pretty boring, and the food is disgusting. 
So, when I’ve had enough of it, I leave 
and go exploring. That’s when I met your 
friend, just outside the Twolegplace.” 

Crowfeather slid out his claws, 
scraping on the gritty surface of the rock. 
“Please tell me what happened,” he 
begged. 


Yew crouched down with his paws 
tucked underneath him, flakes of snow 
blotching his tabby pelt. “She was on the 
edge of the forest, right next to the 
Thunderpath,” he meowed. “She was in 
a pretty bad way, wounded and 
exhausted. But like I said, she was ready 
to fight me until I convinced her I was no 
enemy.” 

“What happened then?” 

“I found her some marigold for her 
wound,” Yew told him, “but it was 
worse than I could cope with, so I told 
her to go into the Twolegplace.” 

Crowfeather gazed at the tabby tom 
in horror. “You told her what?” 

Yew twitched his whiskers in 
amusement. “Most Twolegs are pretty 


kind to injured cats. Someone would 
take her in, and they might even take her 
to the vet.” As Crowfeather opened his 
mouth to ask a question, Yew added 
quickly, “I guess that’s what you would 
call a Twoleg medicine cat. They'd give 
her the help she needed.” 

“And Nightcloud did that?” 
Crowfeather asked, fascinated by the 
idea of his former mate agreeing to set 
paw inside a Twoleg den. 

Yew shrugged. “I think so. She didn’t 
look happy about it, but the whole of the 
forest there reeked of dogs and foxes, so 
she couldn’t go back that way. She 
headed for the housefolk dens, and I 
never saw her again.” 

“I have to go and find her!” 


Crowfeather exclaimed. The herbs Yew 
had given him, and the prey warm in his 
belly, made him feel full of strength 
again and ready for anything. 

Yet he knew it would be mouse- 
brained to go into the Twolegplace 
alone. He had no idea what he would 
find there, but he was certain that 
Nightcloud must be trapped somehow, or 
she would have come home. 
Crowfeather was worried that it might 
be hard to get her out. If she even wants 
to come with me. 

His first impulse was to ask Yew to 
go with him. Yet Yew had already told 
him that he’d been leaving the 
Twolegplace when he met Nightcloud. 
He wouldn’t want to go back there so 


soon. Besides, Crowfeather already 
owed him his life. He couldn’t bring 
himself to demand any more of him. 

No, he thought. J need a different cat 
for this. And he knew which cat he 
wanted by his side. 

I need Breezepelt. 





CHAPTER 21 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather plodded across the moor 
toward the WindClan camp. The daylight 
had faded, and the first warriors of 
StarClan had appeared through ragged 
gaps in the cloud, casting a pale glimmer 
on the surface of the snow. 
Crowfeather’s head still throbbed, and 
he was exhausted from pushing his way 
through drifts that reached almost to his 
shoulders. But at least no more flakes 
were falling, and his determination to 
find Nightcloud kept him going. 

He became more watchful as he 
approached the camp. He was acutely 


aware that he was still not allowed 
inside, and if Onestar or any of the 
warriors spotted him, he could be driven 
out before he got the chance to explain 
why he had returned. 

I need to find a way to talk to 
Breezepelt without any other cat 
knowing. 

Drawing closer still, Crowfeather 
could see a cat standing at the top of the 
hollow, keeping watch. At first he 
crouched down in the shelter of a jutting 
boulder, hoping for a chance to sneak 
past without being noticed. Then he 
recognized the graceful figure outlined 
against the gleaming snow. 

Thank StarClan! It's Heathertail. 

Crowfeather emerged from behind 


the bush and dropped into the hunter’s 
crouch. Using the snow for cover, he 
crept forward, thrusting his way through 
and wincing as the cold stuff soaked into 
his fur. He was acutely conscious of how 
his dark gray pelt would stand out 
against the snow, and he didn’t want to 
alert Heathertail in case she called out to 
warn the Clan before he was close 
enough for her to recognize him. 

When he was within a few tail- 
lengths he rose up and called out in a 
low voice. “Heathertail!”’ 

Heathertail stiffened as she gazed at 
him, then bounded lightly through the 
snow until she reached his side. 

“Crowfeather! You came back after 
all” she exclaimed. 


“Yes, but I don’t mean to stay,” 
Crowfeather responded. He felt slightly 
embarrassed by the warmth in 
Heathertail’s voice, and the glow in her 
blue eyes. “I’m sorry for the way I 
behaved before, Heathertail. I’m sure 
you're figuring out . . . Pm not always 
the easiest cat.” 

Heathertail’s eyes danced with 
amusement. “Well, I enjoy a challenge 
sometimes. Breezepelt isn’t always easy, 
either.” 

Like father, like son, Crowfeather 
thought. “Speaking of Breezepelt .. . I 
need to talk to him, and tell him that I’ve 
found out where Nightcloud is.” 

Heathertail gave a gasp of 
astonishment. “Really? Thats great! 


How did you do that?” 

Quickly Crowfeather explained how 
he had met Yew, and how the powerful 
tabby had told him about meeting 
Nightcloud on the edge of the 
Twolegplace. “I think she must be 
trapped there,” he finished, “and I want 
Breezepelt to come with me to get her 
out.” 

Heathertail nodded agreement. “Ill 
go fetch him for you.” Heading back to 
the camp, she glanced over her shoulder. 
“I’m coming too,” she mewed. 

While he waited, Crowfeather 
trudged over to a nearby thornbush and 
slid underneath the branches. His heart 
was racing with tension; if any other cat 
spotted him now, there would be real 


trouble. 

Peering out from his hiding place, 
Crowfeather thought he spotted a flicker 
of movement at the edge of the camp. 
Drawing in a hissing breath, he pressed 
himself lower to the ground. Everything 
was still, and for a moment Crowfeather 
assumed he had been mistaken. 

I’m so nervous, I’d run away if a 
mouse jumped into my paws! 

Then a breeze started up, teasing the 
surface of the snow into little flurries 
and carrying to Crowfeather a scent that 
he recognized all too well. 

“Okay, Hootpaw,” he mewed. “I 
know you’re there somewhere. You can 
come out now.” 

Heartbeats later the dark gray tom 


popped up from behind a rock, scuffled 
his way through the snow, and skidded 
into the shelter of the bush beside 
Crowfeather. His eyes gleamed and his 
tail was bushed out with excitement. 

Oh, StarClan, now what do I do? 

“What are you doing out of your 
den?” Crowfeather asked, fixing the 
apprentice with a stern glare. With any 
luck, he didnt hear anything. 

“T only went to make dirt,” Hootpaw 
excused himself. “But I was so excited 
to see that you’ve come back—and 
youve found Nightcloud!” The 
apprentice gave a little bounce. “That’s 
so great!” 

“So you were listening to me and 
Heathertail!” 


For a heartbeat, Hootpaw looked 
chastened. “I didn’t mean to spy,” he 
insisted. “I want to come with you! 
Please, Crowfeather!” 

Crowfeather was briefly tempted. 
He knew how much Hootpaw cared for 
his former mentor, just as Featherpaw, 
surprisingly, cared for him. And 
Hootpaw had learned his battle moves 
well; he could be an asset if they ran into 
trouble. 

But then Crowfeather realized that it 
was quite impossible. And he’d had 
enough of taking apprentices into danger. 

“Absolutely not,” he replied. “Take 
another warrior’s apprentice on a 
dangerous mission?” Tts a secret 
mission, too, he reflected. A banished 


cat sneaking an apprentice out without 
his leader s approval! “You must have 
bees in your brain,” he finished. 

Hootpaw’s tail drooped and he 
blinked in disappointment. “Please, 
Crowfeather,” he repeated. “Ill do 
everything you tell me.” 

“Tm telling you no.” Crowfeather 
slid forward, so close to Hootpaw that 
his nose almost touched the top of the 
apprentice’s head. Being tough with him 
now is the best way to protect him. 
“And if you breathe a word of this to 
Onestar,” he continued, “Ill personally 
make sure that you wish you'd never left 
the nursery. Got it?” 

Hootpaw’s eyes were wide and 
scared. “Got it, Crowfeather.” He 


wriggled out from under the bush and 
streaked off, back toward the camp. 

Crowfeather watched him go, 
shaking his head a little. Hes got great 
spirit, he reflected. He’ll make a fine 
warrior one day. And I'll do all I can to 
make sure that Nightcloud is around to 
help him do it. 

While Crowfeather waited for his 
Clanmates to return, the sky cleared and 
the moon shone down on the snowy 
moor. Crowfeather let out a purr of 
satisfaction; their journey would be 
much easier if they could see where they 
were putting their paws—provided they 
got away without any cat spotting them. 

When Heathertail reappeared with 
Breezepelt padding in her paw steps, the 


light was bright enough for Crowfeather 
to see how battered and exhausted they 
both looked. Their tails and shoulders 
were drooping; Heathertail’s pelt was 
matted with twigs, and Breezepelt had a 
scratch on one foreleg. 

He wondered if they were even in 
any shape to go through with the plan. 

“What happened to you?” 
Crowfeather asked, emerging from his 
hiding place under the bush. “Has there 
been trouble?” 

Heathertail shook her head. “We 
spent the whole day lugging stones and 
brush around to plug up the tunnel 
entrances,” she told Crowfeather. “It’s 
exhausting work.” 

“And after all that, we didn’t have 


time to do them all,’ Breezepelt 
complained. “Onestar insisted on 
stopping when the sun went down. That 
means the stoats can still get out, so it 
was all for nothing. I feel like every 
scrap of skin has been scraped off my 
pads.” 

“It'll be fine.” Heathertail gave 
Breezepelt a friendly nudge. “We can 
finish tomorrow.” 

Crowfeather had listened to their 
news with mounting anxiety. “Are you 
sure youre fit for this?” he asked. “It’s a 
long way to the Twolegplace.” 

There was a determined gleam in 
Breezepelt’s eyes as he gazed at his 
father. “I could do more than this for 
Nightcloud,” he meowed. “We have to 


find her.” 

“Its the least we can do,” 
Heathertail agreed. 

A trickle of pride in the two young 
cats began to flow through Crowfeather, 
like a frozen stream beginning to melt. 
The determined look on Heathertail’s 
face filled him with confidence. She 
would definitely be a useful cat to have 
around on this journey. But what about 
the camp? he wondered. She 5 supposed 
to be keeping watch. 

He tilted his head, thinking hard, 
when the sound of paw steps swishing 
through the snow behind him made him 
start. He swung around to see Hootpaw 
and his mentor, Gorsetail, looming up 
out of the darkness. 


Crowfeather felt every hair on his 
pelt beginning to rise. “What in 
StarClan’s name are you doing here?” he 
demanded in a low voice. “Hootpaw, I 
told you not to tell any cat.” 

“You told me not to tell Onestar,” 
Hootpaw reminded him, as bright and 
confident as ever. “But I told Gorsetail. I 
reckoned you’d have to let me come if I 
had my mentor’s permission.” 

“And has she given it?” Crowfeather 
angled his ears toward Gorsetail. “Are 
you as bee-brained as he is?” 

“Bee-brained yourself,” Gorsetail 
retorted coolly. “J’m not the cat who’s 
showing his face here after being 
banished from the Clan. And yes, 
Hootpaw has my permission—on one 


condition.” 

“And whats that?” Breezepelt 
growled, taking a pace toward the gray- 
and-white she-cat. 

“That I get to come with you too,” 
Gorsetail replied. 

Crowfeather’s eyes widened in 
shock. Gorsetail wants to help? 

“Don’t look so surprised,” the she- 
cat mewed. “I respected Nightcloud as 
much as any cat.” 

Crowfeather stared at his Clanmate, 
hardly knowing what to say. He hadn’t 
forgotten that Gorsetail had once said 
that the Clan would be better off if 
Breezepelt were killed by a badger. 
Though lately her attitude seemed to 
have relaxed, she still wasn’t a cat 


Crowfeather wanted with him on a 
dangerous expedition. 

It was Heathertail who broke the 
silence, giving Crowfeather an irritated 
nudge. “For StarClan’s sake, let them 
come! If we stand here arguing, some cat 
will hear us, and we won’t be able to go 
at all.” 

Crowfeather could see the sense in 
that. “Okay, you can come,” he meowed. 
Privately he still wasn’t sure that it was 
a good idea to take so many cats, 
especially when they had to cross a rival 
Clan’s territory. And if Onestar found 
out, it would surely cause problems. Not 
to mention, the camp would be 
unguarded for a little while. But then, he 
told himself, the more noses, the more 


chance of finding Nightcloud. We have 
to take the risk. 

Hootpaw leaped right off the ground 
in his excitement. “If we meet any stoats, 
I know what to do,” he boasted, landing 
on his hind paws and striking out with 
both forepaws against an imaginary 
Stoat. 

“If we meet any stoats, you'll stay 
beside me and do as you're told,” 
Gorsetail responded, with a severe look 
at her apprentice. 


“Sure,  Gorsetail!” Hootpaw’s 
enthusiasm wasn’t dampened in the 
slightest. 


Lets hope we dont find any stoats, 
Crowfeather thought as he took the lead 
away from the camp. But we will find 


something. I just hope that something is 
Nightcloud. 

Surprising himself, he couldn’t stifle 
a pulse of excitement at the thought of 
seeing her again. 





CHAPTER 22 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather led the way across the 
moor, guiding his patrol in a wide half 
circle to avoid the tunnels. “I don’t want 
to risk meeting the stoats,” he murmured. 
“They'll be even more angry with 
WindClan after you blocked up the 
entrances.” 

Even so, he couldn’t help feeling a 
prickling of tension in his pads as they 
passed by, remembering once again 
Kestrelflight’s vision. He saw dark 
water rush out, swelling and tossing until 
it could engulf all the Clans. 

Its so clear. Its almost as though 


the vision were mine. 

He shook his head to clear it of the 
fake memories. 

But I still want to know what it 
means. 

When they reached the stream that 
formed the border with ThunderClan, 
Crowfeather halted. “We could trek all 
the way around the forest,” he meowed, 
“and get to the Twolegplace that way. 
But it’s much farther than cutting across 
ThunderClan territory; we’d never do it, 
find Nightcloud, and get back to camp 
again before dawn.” 

“Tf we find Nightcloud,” Gorsetail 
put in. 

Breezepelt gave her a savage look 
and opened his jaws to speak, but 


Heathertail interrupted him with a touch 
of her tail on his shoulder. “We don’t 
want the Clan to miss us if we can 
possibly avoid it,” she pointed out. “If 
we don’t find Nightcloud, they never 
need to know we were gone, and if we 
do—well, Onestar will be so pleased 
that he won’t mind what we did.” 

Gorsetail shrugged. “ThunderClan it 
is, then.” 

Crowfeather gazed into the trees on 
the opposite side of the stream. “From 
now on, absolute silence,” he told the 
others. “We’ll be on another Clan’s 
territory, and it’s possible that some 
ThunderClan cats will be out and about. 
We really don’t want trouble with them 
right now.” He hesitated, then added, 


“Hootpaw, have you got that?” 

Serious for once, the apprentice 
nodded vigorously. 

“ve got an idea,” Heathertail 
meowed before Crowfeather could start 
looking for the best place to cross the 
stream. “Why don’t we roll ourselves in 
the ThunderClan scent markers? That 
way, if we do meet a ThunderClan 
patrol, we can hide and our scent won’t 
give us away.” 

“That’s a brilliant plan!” Breezepelt 
exclaimed. 

But Hootpaw let out an outraged 
squeak. “I don’t want that ThunderClan 
stink on my fur!” 

Gorsetail gave her apprentice a cuff 
around the ear, her claws sheathed. 


“Yow ll do as you’re told. We could still 
go back to camp.” 

Hootpaw hunched his shoulders. 
“Sorry, Gorsetail.” 

Crowfeather located a narrow part 
of the stream where it was easy for the 
cats to leap across. As he and his 
Clanmates rolled in the ThunderClan 
scent, he couldn’t help feeling some 
sympathy for Hootpaw. The markers 
were strong and fresh—clearly they had 
been renewed at sunset—and he winced 
as the stench sank into his pelt. 

I dont think lIl ever smell like 
WindClan again! Instead the scent 
reminded him of Leafpool, and he gave 
his ears an irritated twitch, as if he were 
trying to get rid of a fly buzzing around 


him. J have to stop thinking about her! 

When every cat was ready, 
Crowfeather headed into the trees with 
his Clanmates padding softly beside him. 
Beneath the trees the snow was not so 
thick, and they were able to pick up their 
pace. The forest floor was dappled with 
black and silver, a pattern that shifted as 
the branches moved gently overhead, 
rustling in the breeze. The prey-scents 
were muted; Crowfeather guessed that 
most creatures would be safe in their 
holes, though he thought it worthwhile to 
glance over his shoulder and whisper, 
“We take no prey, remember? This isn’t 
our hunting ground.” 

“What do we do when we get to the 
Twolegplace?” Heathertail asked as the 


sound of the stream died away behind 
them. “It must be huge. How will we 
ever find Nightcloud?” 

“How about we worry about that 
when we get there?” Gorsetail 
responded, an edge to her voice. 

“Pve been thinking about that.” 
Crowfeather ignored the gray-and-white 
she-cat. “I’m going to start from the pool 
where I thought Nightcloud died. We 
might be able to pick up her scent there, 
and if we can, it will make our job a lot 
easier.” 

“Good idea.” 

The grunted response came from 
Breezepelt. Crowfeather could barely 
prevent his tail from sticking straight up 
in astonishment. Finally, I’ve done 


something right! 

The WindClan cats slipped like 
shadows through the forest as 
Crowfeather led them toward the hollow 
where he had found Nightcloud’s blood 
and the fox scent. Now and again he 
picked up the faintest trace of his own 
stale scent, but his anxiety grew when he 
couldn’t find any of Nightcloud’s. 

Maybe Breezepelt was right, and it 
has faded. That would make it much 
harder to find her, if her scent trail has 
disappeared. 

But before the patrol reached the 
hollow, Crowfeather spotted movement 
in the undergrowth over to one side, and 
a flicker of pale light that vanished 
almost immediately. He halted, signaling 


with his tail for his Clanmates to do the 
same. 

The pale flicker came a second time, 
and for a moment Crowfeather 
wondered if his mother, Ashfoot, was 
showing herself to him again. Then he 
dismissed the thought. Ashfoot only 
came to him in dreams. He must have 
caught a glimpse of a living animal. Jt 
has to be a cat with a white or pale 
gray pelt, he thought. A strong, fresh 
scent drifted into his nostrils. Fox dung! 
Its ThunderClan! 

He beckoned his patrol into the 
shadow of a bramble thicket, where they 
crouched in silence, hardly daring to 
breathe. Rustling came from the 
undergrowth, followed by a cat’s voice 


raised, half amused and half annoyed. 

“Great StarClan, Lilypaw! Do you 
have to stomp around like an overweight 
badger?” 

“Thats Poppyfrost,” Crowfeather 
whispered. “I wonder how many more 
of them there are.” 

A heartbeat later the ThunderClan 
patrol emerged into the open. Ivypool 
was in the lead, with Poppyfrost and 
Bumblestripe. Following them were 
their apprentices, Lilypaw and her 
littermate, Seedpaw. Moonlight reflected 
off Ivypool’s silver-and-white pelt. 

Crowfeather hoped that if they kept 
still, the darkness still might hide them, 
or their ThunderClan scent would 
deceive the patrol, but it was a vain 


hope. Ivypool stalked straight up to him 
and stood looking down at him and the 
rest of the WindClan cats. 

“Greetings,” she meowed. “I 
suppose you have a good reason for 
lurking there on our territory?” 

Crowfeather | remembered that 
Ivypool had trained in the Dark Forest, 
spying for ThunderClan, and there 
wasn’t much she didn’t know about 
tracking in the dark. Or fighting, if it 
came to that. How long did she know 
that we were here? 

“Well?” Ivypool asked. 

Rising to his paws, Crowfeather 
gave his pelt a shake, trying to recover a 
little dignity. “Let me explain... ,” he 
began. 


But at that moment, Bumblestripe 
padded forward and pushed his muzzle 
into Breezepelt’s shoulder fur. “They’re 
carrying our scent!” he exclaimed. “That 
proves they’re up to no good!” 

Breezepelt started backward, his 
pelt beginning to bristle, and slapped 
Bumblestripe away with a lash of his 
tail. A growl came from deep in 
Bumblestripe’s throat, while Breezepelt 
slid out his claws. Their backs arched, 
as if they would leap into a fight at any 
moment. 

“No!” Crowfeather ordered. He 
pushed Breezepelt back and stepped 
between him and the ThunderClan tom. 

At the same moment, Ivypool 
snapped, “Stop that, Bumblestripe.” She 


stood beside Crowfeather, separating the 
two hostile toms. 

Reluctantly, Bumblestripe took a 
step back, though he and Breezepelt 
were still glaring at each other. Ivypool 
stood waiting with her head tilted to one 
side, while Poppyfrost had withdrawn a 
few paces with the two apprentices. 
Crowfeather heard her say to them, “If a 
fight breaks out, run!” 

“Look, Ivypool . . .” Crowfeather 
addressed the silver-and-white she-cat, 
hoping she would be reasonable. “We’re 
here on an important mission. We’re 
looking for Nightcloud.” 

“But Nightcloud is dead,” Ivypool 
objected. “Onestar announced it at the 
Gathering.” 


Crowfeather began to explain how 
he had followed Nightcloud’s scent from 
one of the tunnel entrances, until he had 
found her blood and scent beside a pool, 
mixed with the reek of fox. 

“Of course we thought that a fox got 
her,” he mewed. 

“So you’ve been trespassing here 
before!” Bumblestripe broke in 
accusingly. 

Ivypool twitched her ears in 
annoyance. “Bumblestripe, will you for 
StarClan’s sake shut up!” She nodded to 
Crowfeather. “Go on.” 

Crowfeather told her how 
Kestrelflight had failed to find 
Nightcloud in StarClan, and how that 
made her Clanmates hope that she was 


still alive, and then how he had met 
Yew, who’d told him of meeting her on 
the edge of a Twolegplace beyond the 
forest. “But our best hope of finding her 
is to go back to that pool and see if we 
can find her scent leading away from it.” 

“Good luck with that, after all this 
time,” Ivypool murmured. “But I can 
understand that you have to try. Yes, they 
can, Bumblestripe,” she added, glaring 
at her Clanmate, who had opened his 
jaws to protest. “Nightcloud is a noble 
warrior, and she deserves the help of 
any cat.” 

Bumblestripe stared down at his 
paws, a sullen expression on his face, 
though he didn’t argue anymore. 

Ivypool turned back to Crowfeather. 


“Bumblestripe and I will escort you,” 
she told Crowfeather. “We can’t have 
WindClan cats wandering around alone 
in our territory.” 

“We don’t need—” Gorsetail began, 
looking outraged, but Crowfeather 
interrupted her with a lash of his tail. 

“That’s fine by us,” he meowed, and 
his Clanmates, even  Gorsetail, 
murmured agreement. 

Its so easy to work with 
ThunderClan when we agree on a goal, 
Crowfeather reflected. If only Onestar 
had seen that, we might be done with 
the stoats by now. 

“Then Pll take the apprentices back 
to camp,” Poppyfrost announced. 

“Not fair,” Lilypaw muttered. “You 


said you'd take us night hunting. And we 
haven’t caught anything yet.” 

“Yeah, trust WindClan to spoil our 
fun,” Seedpaw added. 

“Never mind.” Poppyfrost gathered 
the apprentices together with a sweep of 
her tail. “We’ll see what we can pick up 
on our way back.” She dipped her head 
to Ivypool and padded off in the 
direction of the ThunderClan camp, with 
the two apprentices trailing after her, 
glaring over their shoulders at the 
WindClan cats. 

“Okay, | Crowfeather,’ = Ivypool 
meowed briskly. “Show us this pool.” 

She padded beside him as they set 
out again, with Bumblestripe bringing up 
the rear. Crowfeather could see that 


Breezepelt was still bristling with anger, 
glaring over his shoulder at 
Bumblestripe, flexing his claws. 
Crowfeather shot him a warning glance 
and hoped that he had sense enough not 
to start any more trouble with the 
ThunderClan tom. 

When they finally reached the pool 
with its fringe of ferns, Crowfeather’s 
heart sank as he tasted the scent of fox in 
the air, stronger and more recent than 
when he had been here before. They 
must come here regularly. Cant 
ThunderClan keep the mange-pelts off 
their territory? 

Examining the ground around the 
pool, Crowfeather found the spot where 
he could still see that Nightcloud’s 


blood had sunk into the grass, but there 
was not the slightest trace of her scent. 

“Work outward from the pool,” he 
instructed his Clanmates. “That way we 
might pick up her trail and find out 
which way she went.” 

Ivypool and Bumblestripe stood to 
one side of the pool while Crowfeather 
and the other WindClan cats searched 
for Nightcloud’s scent. Crowfeather felt 
his hope sinking away like rain into dry 
ground as the moments passed and they 
found nothing. He was wondering how 
much longer they could go on searching 
when Breezepelt let out an excited yowl. 

“Tve found it!” 

Crowfeather looked up. Breezepelt 
was standing several fox-lengths away 


from the pool, in the opposite direction 
from WindClan and toward the 
Twolegplace that Yew had pointed out to 
him. Swiftly he skirted the pool and 
bounded over to join his son, hoping that 
Breezepelt hadn’t imagined finding the 
scent out of sheer desperation. 
Breezepelt pointed with his muzzle 
to a clump of chervil, the leaves wilting 
and frostbitten. Crowfeather bent his 
head to sniff, parted his jaws to taste the 
air. The fox reek was swamping 
everything; he was sure there were at 
least two of them, and possibly three. 
Beneath the fox scent there was a trace 
of something else. Crowfeather wanted 
to believe that Breezepelt was right, but 
he wondered if he was just smelling 


what he wanted to smell. He shook his 
head slowly. “I’m not sure,” he 
murmured. 

“Tt is Nightcloud’s scent!” 
Breezepelt insisted. 

Hootpaw pushed his way forward. 
“Let me try!” 

Gorsetail hooked his tail around her 
apprentice’s neck and drew him back. 
“Stay out of the way,” he ordered. “We 
don’t want your scent confusing 
everything.” 

Crowfeather could see that 
Breezepelt’s eyes looked hopeful and yet 
uncertain, as if he wasn’t quite sure that 
he had really found his mother’s scent 
after so long. Crowfeather guessed that 
he too was desperately trying to 


convince himself. 

“If she went this way, she wasn’t 
heading for WindClan,” Crowfeather 
murmured thoughtfully. “And there’s 
only one reason for that.” 

“The foxes were chasing her!” 
Heathertail meowed excitedly. “So if we 
follow the foxes...” 

Crowfeather nodded. “We stand a 
good chance of finding Nightcloud.” 

“But what if... ?” There was panic 
now in Breezepelt’s eyes, and his fur 
began to prickle in alarm. “What if they 
caught her?” 

Heathertail wrapped her tail over his 
shoulders. “Calm down,” she mewed. 
“We know she isn’t dead, right? That 
other cat saw her. So somehow, she must 


have shaken off the foxes and ended up 
in the Twolegplace.” 

Crowfeather said nothing. The young 
she-cat was right that Nightcloud wasn’t 
in StarClan, and they had a good idea 
that she had gone to the Twolegplace, 
however unlikely that seemed. Thats 
why we're here, he told himself 
determinedly, and we’re not going home 
until we know for sure what happened 
to her, one way or the other. 

“Come on,” he urged his Clanmates. 
“We won't find her standing around. 
Let’s follow the foxes.” 

Ivypool and Bumblestripe padded 
over to join them as they turned in the 
direction of the fox trail, Ivypool taking 
the lead again while Bumblestripe 


tagged along at the end of the group. 
Crowfeather felt uncomfortable, almost 
as if he and his Clanmates were 
prisoners, but he had to admit they were 
lucky not to have ended up in a fight, or 
being chased off ThunderClan territory. 
With so many cats involved in their 
mission, Crowfeather thought to himself, 
it was growing more and more likely 
that Onestar would discover what they 
had done. We’d better find Nightcloud, 
and then he cant be too angry. Theres 
not much more he can do to me, but 
there might be trouble for the others. 
The fox trail led in an almost straight 
line through the forest. Breezepelt kept 
his nose close to the ground as they 
followed it, here and there exclaiming 


that he had picked up Nightcloud’s scent. 
Crowfeather too thought that he could 
catch a trace of it, but as they padded 
onward, he felt his chest tighten with 
worry. Now and again he spotted the 
paw print of a desperately running cat, 
and he wondered how Nightcloud had 
managed to keep going, wounded as she 
had been by the stoats. Could she really 
have had the strength and speed to stay 
ahead of the foxes for so long? 
Crowfeather could imagine the foxes 
encircling her, catching her and pulling 
her down, tearing her flesh. He couldn’t 
push away the thought that perhaps Yew 
hadn’t seen Nightcloud, but only another 
cat who looked like her. He had to halt 
and close his eyes, repeating inside his 


head, Yew said she smelled like me... . 
She smelled like me... . 

Breezepelt’s voice came from close 
by. “Crowfeather, are you okay?” 

Crowfeather shook his head as if he 
could drive out the images. “I’m fine,” 
he rasped, and padded on. 

But the horrible visions still attacked 
Crowfeather’s mind, fierce as the 
warriors of the Dark Forest. He had to 
keep reminding himself that if the foxes 
had gotten Nightcloud, there would be 
blood and maybe even a body. 

Or parts of a body. Please, 
StarClan, not that. 

He shivered, but the chill had 
nothing to do with the frosty air of the 
snow-covered forest. 


Eventually, Crowfeather could pick 
up the familiar tang of the ThunderClan 
scent markers; they had reached the 
border of ThunderClan territory. The fox 
trail led straight across it. 

“Are you going any farther?” Ivypool 
asked. 

“Of course!” It was Breezepelt who 
replied. “We’re not giving up until we 
find Nightcloud.” 

Ivypool dipped her head; 
Crowfeather thought he could see a trace 
of approval in her eyes. “Then we'll 
leave you here,” she continued. “And I 
give you permission to cross our 
territory again on your way back—but 
not to take prey. Of course, we will have 
to report this to Bramblestar.” 


More trouble to come. Surely 
Bramblestar will discuss all this with 
Onestar. And Onestar will think even 
worse of me—if thats possible. Aloud 
Crowfeather mewed, “Of course. And 
you might report the foxes, as well.” 

“We know about the foxes,” Ivypool 
retorted. “We’re keeping an eye on 
them.” 

Not a close-enough eye, 
Crowfeather thought, though he wasn’t 
about to start an argument. “Then thank 
you for your help,” he responded with a 
polite nod. 

“May StarClan light your path,” 
Ivypool meowed. “I hope you find 
Nightcloud.” 

As she spoke, there was genuine 


concern in her eyes and her voice. 
Crowfeather felt even more worried, 
guessing that Ivypool didn’t really 
believe that they had much chance of 
tracking Nightcloud down. 

Ivypool turned, jerking her head for 
Bumblestripe to follow her. The 
ThunderClan tom gave the WindClan 
cats a last suspicious look as he turned 
away, and both cats disappeared into the 
undergrowth. Crowfeather let out a sigh 
of relief to see them go. 

“Okay,” he meowed. “Lets get 
going.” 

His head held high, he crossed the 
ThunderClan border markings, and his 
Clanmates followed him into unknown 
territory. 


For some time, the fox trail led on in 
a straight line as before, until the trees 
thinned out and Crowfeather began to 
pick up a new, acrid scent. “Monsters!” 
he exclaimed. “Of course . . . There’s a 
Thunderpath up ahead.” 

“Fox dung!” Breezepelt hissed. 

Crowfeather shared his anger. 
Picking out Nightcloud’s scent was hard 
enough; it would become even harder 
when the scent of monsters was added to 
the mix. And the Thunderpath was one 
more hazard that Nightcloud had faced. 
Crowfeather shuddered, wondering if 
she could have been killed by a monster. 

One of them might have caught her 
after she met Yew. 

Still, the scent of the Thunderpath 


meant that they were drawing close to 
the Twolegplace. And the fact that 
Nightcloud seemed to have made it this 
far made Crowfeather more certain that 
Yew had been right. He was determined 
not to give up. 

Soon the acrid tang grew stronger, 
and now and again Crowfeather could 
hear the roar of a monster prowling 
along the Thunderpath. The fox scent 
was growing stronger too, and for a 
moment Crowfeather wondered if more 
foxes had joined the ones they had 
tracked from the pool. 

Then he realized that he was wrong. 
The fox scent isnt just strong—it’s 
fresh! There are foxes here right now! 





CHAPTER 23 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather spun around at a flicker in 
the undergrowth and found himself face 
to face with a fox as it emerged from 
behind a bramble thicket: an old dog fox 
with a graying muzzle and a malignant 
look in its berry-bright eyes. 
Crowfeather slid out his claws and let 
out a growl from deep in his throat. 
“Back off, mange-pelt™” he snarled. 
But before he had finished speaking, 
two more foxes leaped out from behind 
the thicket; they were young and strong, 
with parted jaws and pointed fangs. 
“Run!” Gorsetail yowled. 


She took the lead as the cats pelted 
away through the trees. Crowfeather 
pounded along, shoulder to shoulder 
with Breezepelt, aware of Heathertail 
hard on their paws. The sound of the 
Thunderpath ahead grew even louder. 

Crowfeather’s pelt prickled with 
fear. Which was worse—to die from the 
bite of a fox, or crushed by the huge 
round paws of a monster? 

Then Crowfeather heard a terrified 
wail from behind him. “Help me!” 

Glancing back, he saw that Hootpaw 
was falling behind, almost in the teeth of 
the leading fox. The fox kept snapping its 
jaws, getting closer and closer to 
Hootpaw’s tail. 

“Hootpaw, I—” Crowfeather began, 


only to break off as he slammed into 
something hard. All the breath was 
driven out of him. 

Struggling to his paws, Crowfeather 
realized that he had run straight into a 
tree. “Fox dung!” he hissed. He began 
racing back to help Hootpaw, claws 
extended, ready to fight the fox. 

But before he reached the terrified 
apprentice, Crowfeather realized 
something else. “Climb the trees!” he 
screeched. 

He reached Hootpaw as he spoke 
and barreled into him, boosting him up 
into the nearest tree. Hootpaw dug his 
claws into the bark and scrambled up 
higher. Crowfeather followed him, 
feeling the hot breath of a fox on his 


hindquarters as he swung himself up 
onto the lowest branch. Hootpaw 
crouched, trembling beside him. 
“Thanks, Crowfeather!” he panted. 
Looking around, Crowfeather 
spotted Gorsetail in a nearby beech tree, 
her fur fluffed up as she spat defiance at 
the foxes below. And where were you 
when your apprentice was in danger? 
Crowfeather wondered. 
Heathertail and Breezepelt had found 
refuge in an oak tree a little farther off. 
“We’re WindClan cats. We don’t do 
trees,” Breezepelt complained loudly. 
Crowfeather gazed down from his 
branch to see the other two foxes 
catching up and skidding to a halt. All 
three of them began prowling around the 


trees, glaring up at the cats and letting 
out vicious snarls between gleaming 
bared teeth. 

“Neither do foxes,” Crowfeather 
responded to his son. “At least, not 
usually.” He had heard now and again of 
foxes that climbed trees, but they mostly 
stayed on the ground. If any of these 
foxes tried it, he’d just slash his claws 
across their muzzles as they drew close. 

That would make them think twice! 

Hootpaw shuddered. “What are we 
going to do?” 

“Well be fine,” Crowfeather 
reassured him. “Look—if you walk 
along this branch, you can cross into the 
beech tree where Gorsetail is.” 

Hootpaw crept forward hesitantly, 


but as soon as he moved, the branch 
gave a lurch, and he halted, trembling 
even harder. 

“I don’t think I can.” He gave 
Crowfeather a scared look. “I might 
fall.” 

“No, you won't. PI be right behind 
you. I won’t let you fall.” 

Hootpaw took a deep breath and 
rose to his paws, once again digging his 
claws into the bark. Paw step by careful 
paw step he crept along the branch, then 
briefly froze again as the branch grew 
thinner toward the end and began to 
bounce gently under the cats’ weight. 

“Go on. You're doing fine,” 
Crowfeather encouraged him. “Don’t 
look down.” 


The reek of foxes was wafting up to 
Crowfeather from underneath the tree. 
He risked a quick glance down and saw 
that all three foxes had gathered below 
them, obviously hoping that one or more 
of them would lose their balance. But 
Hootpaw carried on steadily, then half 
leaped, half scrambled into Gorsetail’s 
tree. Gorsetail was waiting to grab him 
by the scruff and set his paws firmly ona 
thicker branch. 

“Thanks!” Hootpaw gasped. “I’ve 
never been up a tree before.” 
Recovering his usual spirit, he added, 
“It’s kind of fun!” 

“Tell that to Breezepelt,” 
Crowfeather mewed wryly; his son was 
right that living on the open moor, 


WindClan cats didn’t have much 
opportunity for tree climbing. But these 
trees had just saved them from a fox 
ambush. 

Slowly and cautiously the three cats 
ventured out onto a branch on the 
opposite side of the beech tree and 
managed to jump across to the oak 
where Breezepelt and Heathertail had 
taken refuge. The foxes followed, anger 
and frustration clear in their glaring 
eyes. The old dog fox sprang up, 
slamming his forepaws against the tree 
trunk and tearing at the bark with his 
claws. 

“We're lucky these things don’t 
climb,” Breezepelt commented. 

“Yes—TI hope they give up and go 


away soon,” Heathertail mewed. 

“Stupid  flea-pelts!” Crowfeather 
hissed down at the furious creatures. 
“Go and find yourselves some crow- 
food!” 

“Yeah,” Breezepelt added. “Cat isn’t 
on the fresh-kill pile today. Eat your own 
tails instead!” 

Crowfeather turned to exchange an 
amused glance with his son. But almost 
at once, Breezepelt’s amusement faded. 
His head drooped and his ears flattened. 

“We will find Nightcloud, right?” he 
asked, his voice not quite steady. 

“Of course we will.” Crowfeather’s 
response came before he had given 
himself time to think. He remembered 
the monsters and the Thunderpath, and 


the way that Nightcloud had been 
wounded by the stoats. But Yew saw her 
alive, he added to himself. We will find 
her. 

The cats kept going, moving from 
tree to tree, but the foxes still followed 
them on the ground. Crowfeather began 
to be afraid that they were tenacious 
enough to keep it up until some cat fell. 

We cant go on like this all night. 
We’re already tired; sooner or later one 
of us will slip, or some cat will leap a 
little short. . . . He tried to hide his 
misgivings from the others, but he could 
tell from their uneasy expressions that 
they knew the danger as well as he did. 

And the trees were thinning out even 
more; soon they were bound to reach a 


place where the next tree was too far 
away for them to jump the gap. When a 
monster roared down the Thunderpath 
ahead, he caught glimpses of its glaring 
eyes. There were other lights, too, 
scattered and distant, but enough to tell 
him that they must be coming to the 
Twolegplace. 

Foxes, monsters . . . is there 
anything else that can go wrong? 

But the foxes didn’t like being so 
close to the Thunderpath, either. When a 
monster roared past, they would back 
up, half withdrawing into the 
undergrowth, only to creep back as the 
sound died away. Then, before the cats 
could be forced down to the ground 
again, an even bigger monster swept by, 


its bellowing seeming to fill the whole 
forest. The foxes halted; then, with a last 
flurry of furious snarls, they turned tail 
and disappeared back into the trees. 

“Thank StarClan for that!” Gorsetail 
exclaimed. 

She bunched her muscles to jump 
down from the tree, but Crowfeather 
stretched out his tail to stop her. “Wait,” 
he meowed. “They might be hiding in the 
undergrowth, trying to trick us.” 

“Like they’ ve got the brains for that,” 
Gorsetail grumbled, but she stayed 
where she was. 

Crowfeather waited, his ears 
pricked for any sounds that would tell 
him the foxes were nearby. But he heard 
nothing, and the fox scent was beginning 


to fade. Finally he nodded. “Okay.” 

All five cats scrambled down the 
tree—Hootpaw complaining that 
climbing down was much harder than 
climbing up—and padded past the few 
remaining trees until they reached a 
stretch of snow-covered grass leading 
up to the Thunderpath. In the moonlight it 
looked like a gleaming black river, 
edged on either side by filthy slush 
where the snow was beginning to melt. 
On the opposite side, more grass 
separated the Thunderpath from fences 
around Twoleg dens made of red stone. 

“Thats a Thunderpath?” Hootpaw 
asked, his eyes stretched wide. 

“That’s right,” Gorsetail told him. “I 
don’t suppose you’ ve seen one before.” 


“No, Nightcloud never took me that 
far from camp,” Hootpaw responded. He 
stretched out a paw to touch the surface, 
then jumped back with a surprised 
squeak. “It’s hard! And cold!” 

Gorsetail gently pushed her 
apprentice away from the edge. “We 
don’t go near Thunderpaths unless we 
have to,’ she meowed. “They’re 
dangerous.” 

Hootpaw blinked in surprise. “Why? 
They don’t look dangerous.” 

“Remember the cute stoats that 
didn’t look dangerous?” Crowfeather 
nudged Hootpaw’s shoulder. ““They—” 

He broke off at the sound of roaring, 
faint at first, but soon growing louder. 
Glaring yellow eyes cast their beams 


across the surface of the Thunderpath, 
and the cats crouched at the edge as the 
monster growled past on its round black 
paws. Their fur was buffeted by the 
wind of its passing as they backed away 
from it, almost choking on the acrid air. 

“That’s a monster?” Hootpaw asked, 
watching the huge creature as it 
disappeared into the distance. 

“Yes,” Gorsetail told him. “And 
that’s why Thunderpaths are dangerous. 
Monsters like that have killed cats.” 

Crowfeather thought Hootpaw 
looked too excited to be taking his 
mentor’s words seriously. His eyes were 
wide and sparkling, and he was 
bouncing up and down on all four paws. 

“Tve seen a monster!” he exclaimed. 


“Cool! Wait till I tell Featherpaw and 
the others.” 

Crowfeather shot the ’paw a 
withering glance, and Hootpaw ceased 
bouncing, abruptly sitting down and 
casting a nervous lick over his chest fur. 

Crowfeather rolled his eyes. “If 
you're quite finished . . . Okay, let’s 
assume that Nightcloud made it this far. 
We need to pick up her scent trail again. 
Let’s work along the edge of the 
Thunderpath in both directions. And 
you,” he added to Hootpaw, “will not 
put one paw off the grass, or Pll see to it 
that you do all the elders’ ticks for the 
next three moons.” 

“Right,” Gorsetail added. “And no 
hunting patrols.” 


The apprentice’s eyes stretched wide 
again, this time with horror at the 
thought. He looked even more scared of 
the threats than he had been of the 
monster. Checking on him, Crowfeather 
noticed that he kept well away from the 
Thunderpath, his nose busily probing 
into the grass. 

It was Hootpaw who found the trace 
they were looking for. “Here! Over 
here!” he squealed. 

Breezepelt was the first to reach 
him, sniffing eagerly at the place where 
Hootpaw pointed. “He’s right. That’s 
Nightcloud’s scent.” His amber eyes 
glowed with happiness and relief. “The 
foxes didn’t get her.” 

Crowfeather bounded along the edge 


of the Thunderpath and tasted the scent 
for himself. Relief flowed over him as 
he recognized not only Nightcloud’s 
scent, but a trace of Yew’s, too. 

“Yew’s scent is here!” he announced 
triumphantly. “He did meet Nightcloud!” 

“So where did she go from here?” 
Heathertail asked. 

Although the cats searched for a long 
time, they couldn’t find any more traces 
of Nightcloud’s scent. Breezepelt was 
getting more and more nervous, tearing 
up the grass with his claws. 
Crowfeather’s frustration was peaking 
when he suddenly realized what the 
problem was. 

“Yew said that Nightcloud went into 
the Twolegplace,” he meowed. “We’re 


searching on the wrong side of the 
Thunderpath.” 

“Into the Twolegplace?” 
Breezepelt’s tone was abrasive. “She 
would never have done that!” 

Crowfeather flicked his ear irritably. 
“Normally, no,” he agreed, “but she was 
injured, too severely for Yew to help 
her. He said he told her to go into the 
Twolegplace for help.” 

Breezepelt looked dubious. “She’d 
never trust a Twoleg to make her better,” 
he insisted. 

“She might have,” Crowfeather 
countered, “if it was her only chance. 
Remember, she was far from home, 
separated by foxes from any medicine 
cat—never mind Kestrelflight.” 


Breezepelt turned and stared at the 
lights beyond the Thunderpath. 

“T know it seems weird,” Heathertail 
responded, resting her tail-tip on 
Breezepelt’s shoulder, “but why would 
Yew lie to Crowfeather? Besides, 
Nightcloud might have at least wanted to 
cross the Thunderpath to escape from the 
foxes. Let’s go and look.” 

After a moment, Breezepelt turned 
back and nodded his assent. 

Relieved, Crowfeather led the cats 
back to the place where Hootpaw had 
found Nightcloud’s scent. Lining them up 
along the edge of the Thunderpath, he 
mewed, “This shouldn’t be too difficult. 
Most monsters don’t come out at mght. 
But we still need to be careful. Wait for 


1? 


my order, and when I say run, run 

“Hootpaw, stay beside me, 
Gorsetail added. 

The apprentice was quivering with 
excitement as he waited with his 
Clanmates. Crowfeather looked 
carefully in both directions, but there 
was no sign of a monster, not even a 
distant roaring. “Okay,” he meowed. 
“Run!” 

He bounded forward, so fast that his 
paws hardly touched the hard, black 
surface. Breezepelt and Heathertail were 
beside him, Gorsetail and Hootpaw a 
paw step behind. But before they 
reached the far side, a raucous 
screeching split the silence of the night. 
Glaring light swept over them and wind 


99 


ruffled their fur as the monster swept 
past, barely a tail-length from their 
flying paws. 

Every cat collapsed, panting, on the 
other side of the Thunderpath. “Mouse 
dung!” Gorsetail exclaimed. “I thought 
we were crow-food for sure.” 

Breezepelt sprang to his paws. 
“Well, were fine,’ he mewed 
impatiently. “Let’s carry on looking.” 

Crowfeather cast a glance at his son, 
half proud and half incredulous. My 
paws are still shaking, he reflected, but 
if Breezepelt’s are, too, he couldnt care 
less. This search for Nightcloud is 
really bringing out the best in him. 

This time Heathertail took the lead, 
weaving this way and that along the edge 


of the Thunderpath as she padded along. 
After a few heartbeats she halted, her 
tail rising straight into the air as she 
lowered her head for a good sniff at the 
grass. A moment later she raised her 
head. “Here,” she mewed. 

Crowfeather bounded over to her, 
his heart pounding with hope. Breezepelt 
was hard on his paws, and the two toms 
bent their heads beside Heathertail. The 
trace was faint, but as Crowfeather 
tasted the familiar scent, he felt hope 
swelling up inside him. Now we know 
that Yew was right, he thought. She 
escaped the foxes and went into the 
Twolegplace. If I can only find her, I 
still have a chance to make peace with 
her. 


He let Breezepelt take the lead as 
they padded alongside the Twoleg dens, 
following the last vestiges of 
Nightcloud’s scent trail. It was hard to 
distinguish it among so many competing 
scents of Twolegs, dogs, other cats, and 
monsters. But Breezepelt in particular 
seemed to have a knack for following 
where his mother had gone. 

By now moonhigh was past, and 
most of the Twoleg dens were dark and 
silent. A few more monsters passed 
them, but they didn’t seem to notice the 
cats in their headlong rush along the 
Thunderpath. 

The black surface seemed to stretch 
on forever, with the long row of Twoleg 
nests on one side of it. Crowfeather’s 


legs ached with weariness, but hope 
helped him to keep putting one paw in 
front of another. 

Then they came to a point where the 
scent trail seemed to stop, swamped by 
the mingled scents of several Twolegs. 
What happened to her here? 
Crowfeather asked himself. Could some 
Twoleg really have taken her away? 
And if they did, how will we ever find 
her? 

Glancing at Breezepelt, Crowfeather 
guessed from his son’s_ desolate 
expression that similar thoughts were 
running through his mind. 

“Have we lost her?” Breezepelt 
choked out. “Have we come as far as 
this, to lose her to a Twoleg?” 


Crowfeather had a vision of some 
dark, faceless Twoleg stooping down 
and grabbing Nightcloud in its huge 
clumsy paws. J can t bear to think what 
the Twoleg would do to her. Though he 
knew the loner meant well, Crowfeather 
had no faith in Yew’s assertion that most 
Twolegs were kind. 

“No—look!”  Heathertail drove 
away Crowfeather’s despairing thoughts 
as she pointed with her tail at the bottom 
of the Twoleg fence. It was made of flat 
wooden strips, and at one point the strip 
had broken away, leaving a jagged hole. 
“PII bet a moon of dawn patrols she 
went through here!” 

Crowfeather thought it was quite 
likely. Jf I were here, wounded, I’d want 


to get away from that Thunderpath. 

“Do you want me to check?” 
Heathertail asked him. 

Crowfeather hesitated, then nodded. 
“Okay. But be careful.” 

Heathertail wriggled her way 
through the gap in the fence, the spiky 
bits of wood scraping through her fur. A 
moment later her face reappeared in the 
hole, her eyes shining with excitement. 
“Yes! Her scent is here.” 

The rest of the patrol followed 
Heathertail and found themselves in a 
Twoleg garden. Thick bushes surrounded 
a patch of grass that led up to the walls 
of the den. 

“No stupid behavior now,” Gorsetail 
warned Hootpaw. “There can be all 


kinds of trouble near Twolegs.” 

Hootpaw didn’t reply, just nodded 
fervently, his eyes wide and gleaming. 
He obviously believed it was the best 
patrol ever. He’ll be boasting about it 
for moons, Crowfeather thought, hiding 
his amusement. Then, reflecting that they 
weren’t out of danger yet, he added to 
himself, J hope. 

The scent trail led across several 
Twoleg gardens. Crowfeather felt his 
paws prickling with apprehension, 
wondering what would happen if they 
were still following it when the sun 
came up and the Twolegs began to 
emerge from their dens. 

And what is Onestar going to say 
when we get back to camp? he asked 


himself. 7 never thought we would be 
away so long. 

His thoughts were interrupted by the 
sound of high-pitched yapping. 

“Dogs!” Gorsetail exclaimed. 

Crowfeather spun around to see dogs 
pouring out of a hole in the entrance to 
the Twoleg den. At first sight, there 
seemed to be a whole Clan of them, but 
he quickly realized there were only five. 
Before any of the cats could react, they 
were surrounded and herded into a 
corner between the den and the fence. 

Bushing out his fur to make himself 
as big as possible, Crowfeather arched 
his back and hissed at the dogs. “Back 
off, flea-pelts!” 

The dogs were bounding around, 


their ears flopping and their tongues 
lolling. They kept making little rushes at 
the cats, trying to chew their necks and 
legs, and swatting at them with their 
huge paws. 

“I think they’re playing,” Heathertail 
meowed. “They’re only kits—dog kits!” 

“Kits?” Breezepelt echoed, 
disbelieving. “Look at the size of them!” 

“I don’t care if they are kits,” 
Gorsetail snapped, pressing herself back 
against the fence to avoid a huge tongue 
swiping across her muzzle. “Pll claw 
their ears off if they don’t stop!” 

“No, don’t hurt them,” Heathertail 
protested. “Climb the fence. P11 hold 
them off.” 

Breezepelt instantly stepped forward 


to stand shoulder to shoulder with her. 
“Pm not leaving you.” 

Heathertail gave him a shove. “Go 
on, mouse-brain. I’1] be fine.” 

Crowfeather could see that 
Breezepelt was determined not to move. 
“I think she’s right,” he meowed. “Come 
on. We can jump down again if she gets 
into trouble.” 

Muttering something under his 
breath, Breezepelt obeyed. Gorsetail and 
Hootpaw had already scrambled up the 
fence and were balancing precariously 
on the top. Breezepelt joined them, and 
Crowfeather followed. 

Meanwhile Heathertail was 
bounding to and fro, weaving in front of 
the dog kits and dodging their pummeling 


paws. As soon as she saw that her 
Clanmates were safe, she lashed out 
with one forepaw, swatting the leading 
dog kit on the nose. 

The dog kit sprang backward; its 
yapping changed to a high-pitched 
squeal. The other dog kits’ playful yaps 
became angry, and they advanced, 
growling, on Heathertail. 

But Heathertail was too quick for 
them. She scrambled up the fence to join 
the others before any of the dog kits 
could reach her. At the same moment, the 
entrance to the den flew open. A Twoleg 
stood in the gap, yowling furiously. 

Crowfeather didn’t wait to see what 
happened next. “Come on,” he urged the 
others, leading the way along the top of 


the fence until they had put a couple of 
gardens between them and the pack of 
dog kits. 

“Now what do we do?” Gorsetail 
asked. “We’ve lost Nightcloud’s trail, 
and I’m not going back there again.” 

Breezepelt opened his jaws for a 
sharp retort, then clearly thought better 
of it and closed them again, looking 
miserable. 

“Lets check in this garden,” 
Crowfeather suggested, reluctant to give 
up hope. “This is the direction 
Nightcloud was going. We might pick up 
her trail again.” 

He jumped down from the fence and 
the rest of the cats followed him. But 
though they searched the garden from 


one side to the other, there was no sign 
of Nightcloud’s scent. 

We’ll have to go back, Crowfeather 
thought. Maybe the Twoleg will have 
taken the dog kits inside. 

But before he could make the 
suggestion, Heathertail padded up to him 
and tapped him on the shoulder with one 
paw. “Look,” she mewed, pointing 
upward with her tail. 

Crowfeather raised his head to look 
where she was pointing. On a ledge a 
few tail-lengths up the den wall, two 
kittypets were sleeping. One was a 
plump tortoiseshell with a rumpled pelt, 
while the other was a black tom with a 
white front and paws. 

“Kittypets,” he muttered. “So?” 


“They might have seen Nightcloud!”’ 

Crowfeather realized that 
Heathertail was right. I’m so tired, I’m 
getting stupid! Without hesitating he 
leaped up onto the ledge and prodded 
the plump tortoiseshell in her side. “Hey, 
kittypet! Wake up.” 

The tortoiseshell’s eyes blinked 
open, and she fixed an unfriendly gaze 
on Crowfeather. “Whoever you are, 
shove off. I’m sleeping,” she responded. 
Her nose wrinkled as if she didn’t like 
Crowfeather’s unfamiliar scent. 

Crowfeather prodded again, harder. 
“Not anymore. We need to talk.” 

By now the black tom was awake 
too. “Who are you, and what do you 
want?” he asked irritably. “Don’t you 


know it’s very rude to wake up a 
sleeping cat?” 

Before Crowfeather could reply, 
Heathertail called up from the garden. 
“Sorry for disturbing you, but we need 
your help.” To Crowfeather she added, 
“Politeness costs nothing,” and then in a 
lower voice, just loud enough for him to 
hear, “You daft furball!” What about 
politeness to your former mentor? he 
thought. 

While he waited for the kittypets to 
reply, Crowfeather tasted the air and 
thought that he could pick up 
Nightcloud’s scent, stronger than the 
traces in the forest and beside the 
Thunderpath. His paws tingled with 
anticipation. She must be somewhere 


around here! Or am I just imagining 
things? 

The tortoiseshell kittypet looked 
from Crowfeather to Heathertail and 
back again. “Okay, what can we do for 
you?” she muttered ungraciously. 

“We’re looking for one of our 
friends,” Heathertail explained, while 
her other Clanmates, who were still 
searching the garden, padded up to join 
her and listen. 

“A cat called Yew said she came this 
way,” Crowfeather added. “Do you 
know him?” 

“You?” The tortoiseshell stretched 
her jaws in an enormous yawn. “Like 
‘Hey, You’?” 

“Like the tree,’ Crowfeather 


responded, stifling a mrrow of 
amusement. 

“Weird name,” the  tortoiseshell 
sniffed. “No, we don’t know him.” 

“Our friend is black, and quite thin,” 
Crowfeather continued, looking at the 
tortoiseshell’s rounded figure. “And she 
was probably bleeding from a wound.” 

“Have you seen her?” Breezepelt 
asked eagerly. 

“Oh, yeah, we’ve seen her,” the 
black-and-white tom mewed, with a 
glance at the tortoiseshell, who gave a 
brief nod. 

Crowfeather felt a surge of relief, 
and could see it was shared by his 
Clanmates in the garden below. 
Hootpaw leaped into the air and let out a 


triumphant caterwaul. “Yes! We found 
her!” For once, no cat told him to keep 
quiet. 

“She turned up quite some time ago, 
in the garden next door.” The tom angled 
his ears in the direction from which the 
Clan cats had come. “She was 
weird. . . . She kept meowing on about 
returning to her ‘Clan.’ She said her 
‘Clanmates’ would be looking for her.” 

“And she wouldn’t play stalking 
with us,” the she-cat added. “She said 
she was a ‘warrior,’ and that was a game 
for kits.” 

“Whats weird about that?” 
Breezepelt asked, bristling. “We’re her 
Clanmates, and we’re looking for her. 
We’ ve come to take her home.” 


The two kittypets exchanged a 
surprised glance; Crowfeather thought 
they were impressed to hear that 
Nightcloud had been telling the truth. 

“We thought she must have hit her 
head,” the tortoiseshell admitted. “She 
was talking about all sorts of crazy 
things, like cats made of stars! And 
fighting against cats who were already 
dead! Who would believe that?” 

Crowfeather sighed. How stupid are 
these two? They have no idea about 
StarClan—living with Twolegs must 
make them blind. “So where is she 
now?” he asked brusquely. 

“The housefolk next door took her 
in,’ the tom replied. “And they'll 
probably be glad to be rid of her. She’s 





so prickly, no gratitude at all—always 
trying to scratch them and escape.” 

She’ still next door? For a moment 
Crowfeather found it hard to get his 
breath. He could hardly believe that they 
were so close to Nightcloud, after so 
long and coming so far. But I knew it! I 
did scent her! 

“Thank you,” he mewed to the 
kittypets. “We’ll leave you to sleep.” 

“Thank goodness for that,’ the 
tortoiseshell responded, wrapping her 
tail over her nose and closing her eyes. 

“Good luck,” the tom meowed. 

Crowfeather leaped down from the 
ledge to join his Clanmates. The fence 
that divided this garden from the one 
beside it had gaps between the flat 


wooden strips, and it was easy for the 
WindClan cats to slip through. 

As soon as they emerged into the 
next garden, they picked up Nightcloud’s 
scent again, but there was no sign of her. 

“The kittypets said she’s always 
trying to escape,” Heathertail pointed 
out. “That means the Twolegs must be 
keeping her in their den.” 

Hootpaw let out a gasp. “You mean 
we have to go .. . in there?” Looking at 
his wide eyes and bristling pelt, 
Crowfeather couldn’t decide whether the 
apprentice was delighted or terrified. 

“Maybe,” he replied. “We have to 
find Nightcloud first.” 

Scanning the Twoleg den, 
Crowfeather spotted a huge gap in the 


wall, starting at ground level and rising 
up several tail-lengths above his head. It 
was blocked by the shiny, transparent 
stuff that Twolegs used to plug holes in 
their walls, but he had never seen a hole 
so big. 

Cautiously Crowfeather padded up 
to the gap, beckoning with his tail for his 
Clanmates to follow him. 

Peering through the transparent stuff, 
Crowfeather was confused at first; he 
needed a moment to make sense of what 
he was seeing. But then he ignored the 
strange Twoleg material and focused on 
something that was more familiar: a nest, 
though instead of moss and bracken, this 
one seemed to be made of interlaced 
twigs and lined with soft white bedding. 


Inside the nest was Nightcloud. She 
was curled up asleep. Crowfeather 
could see her sleek black body rising 
and falling as she breathed: strong, 
steady breaths that showed she must 
have recovered from her injuries. A 
weird, white object, like a curled, hard 
leaf, surrounded her head. 

“Thank StarClan!” he breathed out, 
so relieved to see a familiar form that he 
had thought he would never see again. 
Nightcloud! 

“Oh, she’s safe!” Breezepelt’s voice 
shook as he pressed himself up against 
the shiny barrier. 

Then Nightcloud shifted in her sleep, 
the leaf-object bumping against her soft 
bedding. Crowfeather gaped in 


astonishment as he picked up the scent of 
a second cat, and saw that what he’d 
thought was bedding, like some sort of 
Twoleg moss, was another cat curled up 
in the nest with her—a fluffy white 
kittypet. 

A kittypet tom! 





CHAPTER 24 
» 


~v 


For a moment Crowfeather stood 
frozen, thrown seriously off balance by 
the appearance of the kittypet tom. 
Surprise flashed through him, along with 
a twinge of jealousy that he didn’t want 
to admit to. The excited murmuring of 
his Clanmates made him pull himself 
together. At least they were too focused 
on Nightcloud to have seen his reaction. 
His companions crowded up to the 
barrier, banging against it with their 
forepaws. At last Nightcloud stirred, 
raised her head, then sprang out of the 
nest and bounded over to join them, her 


expression filled with the shock of 
recognition. The strange white leaf still 
clung to her neck, surrounding her face. 
Crowfeather supposed it was some 
Twoleg trickery that Nightcloud couldn’t 
take off. 

The barrier was divided into two 
parts with a shiny strip running down the 
middle. There was a tiny gap between 
the two sections, and Nightcloud 
stretched her neck out of the white leaf 
and thrust her nose into the gap so that 
she could speak to her Clanmates. 

“Well, you certainly took your time 
finding me,” she mewed, though 
Crowfeather could see from her shining 
eyes that she was happy and excited to 
see them. 


Disturbed by Nightcloud’s movement 
and the noise of their meows, the white 
tom woke up and left the nest to pad up 
behind her. The grumpy look on his 
squashed-in face showed that he didn’t 
share Nightcloud’s happiness. 

“Hello there,” he mewed. “What’s 
all this?” 

Every cat ignored his question. 
Crowfeather didn’t spare him more than 
a disdainful glance, taking in his plump 
body and his long, perfectly groomed 
white fur. “How can we get you out of 
here?” he asked Nightcloud. 

“This door slides open,” Nightcloud 
explained, waving her tail at the 
transparent barrier. “Maybe if we 
push...” 


“Its worth a try,” Breezepelt agreed, 
with an eager twitch of his whiskers. 

“Hey, be careful,” the white tom 
warned them. “You mustn’t break our 
housefolk’s things. And who did you say 
you were, again?” 

Nightcloud gave him a dismissive 
flick of her tail. “Not now,” she 
meowed. “TIl explain in a moment.” 

Crowfeather and the others pushed 
from outside, and Nightcloud from 
inside, but there was nowhere to get a 
grip with their paws, and the barrier 
didn’t move. 

“This is no use,” Breezepelt mewed 
at last, huffing out a breath as he stood 
back. Crowfeather thought that his 
enthusiasm was waning, as if he was 


beginning to doubt that he would be 
reunited with his mother after all. “We 
need a different plan.” 

“We need to get the Twolegs to open 
it,’ Crowfeather responded. 

“But the Twolegs will be asleep,” 
Heathertail pointed out. 

“That’s right,” the white tom put in. 
“And they really don’t like it if we wake 
them.” 

Crowfeather bared his teeth. “Fox 
dung to that. If we need to wake them, 
we wake them.” 

“I know how!” Hootpaw squealed, 
bouncing excitedly. “I can yowl really 
loud!” 

“Okay, then—” Crowfeather began. 

He was interrupted by the white tom, 


who paced forward to stand beside 
Nightcloud. “Is all this really 
necessary?” he asked her. “Couldn’t you 
just stay with me? You know how 
dangerous it is out there. Just look at it! 
There’s snow on the ground!” 

“Well spotted,” Crowfeather 
muttered. 

“And look how long it took these 
cats to come get you,” the white tom 
went on. “Days and days! How much do 
they really care about you?” 

Nightcloud turned slowly to face the 
kittypet and paused for a long moment. 
Crowfeather half expected her to give 
the interfering creature a swat on the 
nose, but her voice was actually friendly 
as she replied. 


“Pm sorry, Pickle, but I always told 
you I’m a Clan cat. I belong on the 
moor.” 

Pickle? Crowfeather thought. What 
sort of name is that for a cat? 

The tom narrowed his eyes and let 
out a growl; Crowfeather glared at him 
through the barrier. Does he think 
Nightcloud belongs to him? 

For a moment, Nightcloud stood 
still, giving him a_ thoughtful look. 
“Would you like to join me out there?” 
she asked eventually. 

Join her in WindClan? Crowfeather 
was outraged, and he saw Breezepelt 
giving his mother a look of blank 
astonishment. What is she thinking of? 
He’s a kittypet! All that silly white fur 


would get tangled and matted with 
burrs. 

Crowfeather had to admit he rather 
enjoyed imagining that. 

To his relief, the tom turned his head 
away awkwardly. “I can’t do that,” he 
told Nightcloud. “It’s my job to guard the 
housefolk. That’s very important. I can’t 
just up and leave.” 

“I can see that,” Nightcloud sighed, 
sounding as if she was genuinely 
regretful. “I’m sorry, then, but we’ll 
have to part ways.” 

Crowfeather shook his head 
helplessly. 7 can t believe I’m listening 
to this. “Right,” he mewed briskly, 
turning to his Clanmates. “Heathertail 
and Hootpaw, you make the loudest 


noise you can. We have to wake the 
Twolegs and make them open the door.” 

“What about me?” Breezepelt asked. 
He still sounded doubtful that the plan 
would work. 

“You and I are going to watch the 
Twolegs when they come down, and 
make sure that once the door is open, 
they don’t stop Nightcloud from coming 
out.” 

Breezepelt bared his teeth and flexed 
his claws, determination driving out his 
uncertainty. “I can do that.” 

“Yes, but don’t attack them unless 
you have to,” Crowfeather told him. “We 
don’t want to start more trouble than we 
can handle.” 

Breezepelt stared at him for a 


moment, as if he felt like challenging his 
orders. He opened his jaws, then 
glanced at Nightcloud and clearly 
decided that protest wasn’t worth it; the 
most important thing was to get his 
mother back. He gave Crowfeather a 
curt nod. 

“And me?” Gorsetail mewed. 

“You can just keep a general watch, 
and pile in when you're needed,” 
Crowfeather replied. “Are you ready, 
Nightcloud?” 

“Ready as [Il ever be.” 

“Okay.” Crowfeather’s gaze swept 
around the little group of his Clanmates. 
“Let’s do it.” 

At once, Heathertail and Hootpaw 
threw back their heads and let out the 


most earsplitting caterwauls 
Crowfeather had ever heard. 7 wouldnt 
be surprised if our Clanmates heard 
that all the way back in the camp! 

Meanwhile, he and _ Breezepelt 
crouched one on either side of the 
transparent barrier, ready for when the 
Twolegs would appear. Gorsetail 
retreated into the shadows of a bush. 

The horrible yowling had gone on 
for several heartbeats before light 
appeared in one of the gaps in the wall 
near the top of the Twoleg den. The 
Twolegs must have heard us, 
Crowfeather thought, his heart beating 
faster with anticipation. 

A moment later, he heard the thump 
of heavy paw steps, and the space 


behind the barrier was lit by what 
looked like a tiny sun, up near the roof. 
A male Twoleg came into view, wearing 
some kind of long, loose pelt. A smaller 
female followed him, and stooped down, 
reaching inside the white leaf to give 
Nightcloud’s head a stroke. Crowfeather 
saw her stiffen under the touch, and 
guessed she was holding herself back 
from scratching. 

“Come on . . . ,” Breezepelt 
muttered. “Open up.” 

The male Twoleg did something to 
the shiny strip that separated the two 
parts of the barrier, then slid one of them 
back. He stepped out into the garden, 
yowling something and gazing around to 
see where the noise was coming from. 


Nightcloud sprang to her paws and 
was about to slip out when the white tom 
suddenly shifted, sitting back on his 
haunches and craning his neck upward. 
Crowfeather felt his neck fur rising as he 
guessed—too late—what the kittypet 
was about to do. 

A heartbeat later, Pickle let out a 
caterwaul of his own, almost drowning 
out the racket from the garden. 
Immediately the female Twoleg turned 
toward him, scooping up Nightcloud as 
she went. Nightcloud struggled in her 
grip, but couldn’t free herself. 

“That mange-pelt!” Breezepelt 
snarled. “He’s trying to mess up our plan 
so Nightcloud has to stay. Pll slaughter 
him!” 


Crowfeather blocked him in time to 
stop him from charging into the den to 
attack the kittypet. “No—if you go in 
there you might get trapped,” he 
meowed. “Then we’d have two of you to 
rescue. Right now, we have to get 
Nightcloud out.” 

Breezepelt hesitated for a moment, 
then dodged around Crowfeather and 
darted into the den. Instead of attacking 
Pickle, he veered aside, leaping at the 
female Twoleg. She let out a screech, 
stumbling a pace backward. At the same 
moment Nightcloud wriggled, sliding out 
of her grasp and landing on the floor 
with a thump. 

“Out! Breezepelt, out!” Crowfeather 
yowled. 


He raced away from the den and the 
light that spilled out of it, into the 
shadows at the edge of the garden. 
Glancing back, he saw that Nightcloud 
and Breezepelt were following. The 
male Twoleg made a grab for 
Nightcloud, but she dodged him and 
pelted on, while Gorsetail ran between 
his hind paws, almost tripping him. 

Heathertail and Hootpaw gave up 
their caterwauling and joined them as 
they fled, with Gorsetail bringing up the 
rear. 

“This is fun!” Hootpaw exclaimed, 
his eyes shining. 

Crowfeather felt a flash of irritation 
at the way the apprentice was enjoying 
all this. But then he reflected that at least 


Hootpaw was getting through a 
dangerous situation, and playing a useful 
part, without losing his nerve. Whats 
the point of scolding him? 

As they reached the fence, 
Nightcloud turned back for a moment. 
“Pm sorry, Pickle!” she called back to 
the white tom. 

The cats didn’t stop running until 
they had crossed the Thunderpath again 
and reached the outskirts of the forest. 
Then Crowfeather felt it was safe to 
slow to a walk, though he kept his ears 
pricked and his nose alert for any sign of 
the foxes. 

Breezepelt was padding along close 
to his mother, their pelts brushing, hardly 
watching where he was putting his paws 


because his gaze was fixed on her. His 
eyes were full of concern for her, and 
relief at having her back. Crowfeather 
thought that they almost looked like a 
family, although he still felt apart from 
the two of them. Breezepelt had never 
looked at him that way. And Nightcloud 
had certainly never looked at 
Crowfeather with the love she felt for 
Breezepelt. 

“What happened to you?” he asked 
Nightcloud. “How did you end up in that 
Twoleg den?” 

“It’s a long story,” the black she-cat 
replied, scratching at the white leaf 
thing. “Before we go any farther, get this 
off me, will you? I can’t do it myself.” 

Breezepelt and Heathertail teamed 


up, clawing and biting at the white thing 
until they finally tore it off. Crowfeather 
padded up to it and gave it a curious 
sniff. It carried Twoleg scent, and 
Nightcloud’s, but that didn’t tell him 
very much. “What was that for?” he 
asked. 

“Pickle told me it was supposed to 
stop me from messing with my wound,” 
Nightcloud explained with a disdainful 
flick of her tail. “Like I’d be so stupid!” 

Crowfeather twitched his whiskers 
with amusement. “Flea-brained 
Twolegs! They think we have the sense 
of a sparrow.” 

Nightcloud sighed. “It’s maddening. 
Anyway, I was hurt fighting the stoats in 
the tunnels, and I got completely lost in 


there. When I finally came out, I realized 
I was on ThunderClan territory. I was 
trying to get back to WindClan, but when 
I stopped by a pool to have a drink, three 
foxes surprised me.” 

“I found that place,” Crowfeather 
told her. “I smelled your blood and your 
fear. I thought you must be dead.” 

“I thought I was headed for 
StarClan,” Nightcloud admitted. “I tried 
to run away from the stupid mange-pelts, 
but I was so hurt and tired they could 
have caught me easily.” She gave her tail 
an angry lash. “If the stoats hadn’t 
wounded me, no way would those foxes 
have gotten anywhere near.” 

“But they didn’t hurt you?” 
Breezepelt looked completely horrified 


by his mother’s story. 

Nightcloud gave him a comforting 
nuzzle. “No. They just made me go the 
way they wanted. I think they were 
playing with me. Or maybe if they can 
get their prey to their den on its own 
paws, they don’t have to carry it, right? I 
wanted to climb a tree, but I didn’t have 
the strength even to do that.” 

Heathertail brushed her tail along 
Nightcloud’s side. “That sounds 
dreadful. How did you get away?” 

Nightcloud gave her chest fur an 
embarrassed lick. “I hate to say this, but 
it was a Twoleg and his dogs that saved 
me. They were walking in the forest, and 
the dogs—two big, stinky things— 
frightened the foxes away.” 


“Was that the Twoleg who took you 
back to his den?” Breezepelt asked. 

“No, I ran away, too,” Nightcloud 
told him. “I met a cat called Yew at the 
edge of the forest, and—” 

“I met him, too,” Crowfeather 
interrupted. “That’s how we knew to 
come and search for you in the 
Twolegplace.” 

Nightcloud nodded. “Yew is a weird 
cat, but decent,” she mewed. “He’s the 
one who gave me the idea to go ask for 
help from the Twolegs. ‘Just wail 
pitifully,’ he told me, ‘and theyll do 
anything for you.’” 

“So what did you do then?” 
Heathertail asked. 

“I took Yew’s advice and crossed 


the Thunderpath into the Twolegplace,” 
Nightcloud replied. “I reckoned the 
foxes wouldn’t dare follow me there. I 
ended up in the garden of that den where 
you found me. 

“Those Twolegs took me to a den 
full of disgusting smells. The Twoleg 
that lived there gave me some kind of 
round white seed that made me go to 
sleep. When I woke up, she’d fixed my 
wound—look.” 

Nightcloud turned to one side. 
Looking at her more _ closely, 
Crowfeather could see a patch on her 
side where the fur had been scraped 
away and was just starting to grow back. 
In the middle of the bare patch was a 
long wound, the edges fastened together 


with tiny scraps of tendril. 

“Weird . . . ,” he murmured, giving 
the wound a sniff. “I wonder if 
Kestrelflight could fix wounds like 
that?” 

Nightcloud shook her head. “Maybe. 
It seemed terribly complicated. Anyway, 
then the Twoleg medicine cat put that 
stupid white thing around my neck,” she 
went on, gesturing at the leaf with her 
tail. 

“And then what happened?” 
Breezepelt asked. He was gazing at his 
mother with awe, perhaps at the story 
she was telling, perhaps still unable to 
believe that they really had her back at 
last. 

Nightcloud shrugged. “Not much. 


The Twolegs took me back to their den, 
and I figured I’d stay there until I felt 
well enough to escape and come back to 
camp.” 

Crowfeather hesitated. He couldn’t 
quite put his paw on what he was 
feeling, but he knew that he didn’t like 
thinking about the white kittypet, and he 
wasn’t sure he wanted to know the 
answer to the question he was about to 
ask. “What about that tom?” he meowed 
at last. 

“Pickle?” Nightcloud let out a small 
mrrow of laughter. “He was my friend. 
He was nice, for a kittypet.” 

Nice? A kittypet? Crowfeather 
stared hard at his former mate. How 
badly were you hurt? Or has the Twoleg 


medicine done something to your mind? 

Clearly Nightcloud wasn’t prepared 
to say any more, and at last Crowfeather 
let his gaze soften. “I’m impressed you 
survived all that,” he declared. 

“Of course I did. Pm a WindClan 
warrior, aren’t I?” 

A slightly awkward silence fell as 
the cats padded wearily through the 
trees. Looking up, Crowfeather could 
see the tracery of leafless branches 
outlined more clearly against the sky, 
and realized that dawn was not far off. 

How will Onestar react when I 
return to camp? He won't be happy that 
I went after Nightcloud without telling 
him, and brought these cats with 
me. . . . I can only hope he wont be too 


angry with me when he sees we’ve 
brought Nightcloud home. 

It was Nightcloud who broke the 
silence at last. “I’m surprised you came 
for me.” 

Crowfeather’s heart clenched and he 
felt his pelt grow hot. Slightly stung, he 
repeated her own words. “Of course I 
did.” 

“We never would have given up on 
you,” Breezepelt put in. 

“I know you never would,” 
Nightcloud meowed, giving his ear a 
quick nuzzle. 

A pang of jealousy and guilt shook 
Crowfeather as he watched his former 
mate and his son. He envied both of 
them, and their easy affection with each 


other. And Nightcloud was right . . . he 
had given up on her. He had been right 
when he’d thought that they weren’t 
really a family. J dont belong with 
them. I wish... but it’s no use wishing. 

The sky was glowing with the 
approach of sunrise by the time the 
WindClan cats crossed the ThunderClan 
border. Crowfeather explained how they 
had met Ivypool and her patrol on their 
way out, and had permission to cross on 
the way back. 

Nightcloud looked unimpressed. “So 
that’s why you all stink ' of 
ThunderClan!” She gave a disdainful 
sniff. “I’m not sure I trust ThunderClan 
to keep their promises,” she added. “It’s 
best if we don’t meet any of their cats.” 


Crowfeather agreed, and the patrol 
slunk cautiously across the rival Clan’s 
territory, making use of every scrap of 
cover. When they came in sight of the 
border stream, Hootpaw _ started 
forward, ready to dash up to the bank 
and leap across, but Gorsetail sprang in 
front of him and blocked him. 

“Wait, mouse-brain!” the gray-and- 
white she-cat hissed. 

Crowfeather halted and tasted the 
air. “The ThunderClan scent markers are 
stale,” he reported. “That means the 
dawn patrol hasn’t been along yet. I 
think it would be safer to wait until 
they’ ve passed.” 

Nightcloud nodded. “Good idea. 
And we could all do with a rest.” 


Crowfeather led the way into the 
shelter of a bank of ferns, where he and 
his Clanmates crouched with ears 
pricked for the approach of the 
ThunderClan cats. Breezepelt and 
Heathertail settled down on either side 
of Nightcloud, masking her scent with 
the smell of ThunderClan that still clung 
to their fur. 

“Where are they?” Breezepelt 
muttered. “All snoring in their nests?” 

At last Crowfeather heard the sound 
of voices and felt the ground quiver from 
approaching paw steps. Peering 
cautiously out from underneath the ferns, 
he spotted the ThunderClan patrol 
padding by, with Dustpelt in the lead. 
Every cat paused, a tail-length from the 


WindClan cats’ hiding place, while 
Poppyfrost set a scent marker at the edge 
of the stream. Crowfeather hardly dared 
to breathe. 

Finally the patrol moved on; 
Crowfeather waited, limp with relief, 
until he had given them time enough to 
get well away. He emerged from the 
clump of ferns, signaling with his tail for 
the others to follow him. Swiftly they 
headed for the bank, then leaped across 
the stream, pelted through the trees, and 
burst out onto the moor. 

“Thank StarClan! We’re home!” 
Heathertail gasped. 

Home, Crowfeather thought. But is it 
mine? Will Onestar have me back? 

He had little time to muse on this, 


because the rest of the journey back to 
camp was a long and arduous trudge 
through the snow. By now the sun had 
risen, and every cat was exhausted; 
Crowfeather felt as if his paws were 
going to fall off. He couldn’t remember 
the last time he had slept, and he began 
to feel a squirming like worms in his 
belly when he wondered how Onestar 
would react to his return. I’d like to find 
the fattest rabbit on the fresh-kill pile, 
then curl up in my den and sleep for a 
moon! he told himself. But IPI probably 
find myself wandering about on the 
moor again. 

But as he and his Clanmates drew 
closer to the camp, Crowfeather began 
to feel even more uneasy. He thought he 


could hear the voices of cats raised in 
distress. And as the wind veered around 
to blow straight at them from the camp, it 
brought a foul odor along with it. 

Crowfeather had to stop himself 
from retching. “What is that?” he 
demanded. 





CHAPTER 25 
» 


~v 


No cat responded to Crowfeather 5 
question. For a heartbeat they gazed at 
one another with a terrible realization, 
then turned as one and raced over the 
last swell of the moor, until they reached 
the top of the hollow. 

“Oh, StarClan no!” Heathertail 
exclaimed. 

Looking down into the camp, 
Crowfeather saw a scene of complete 
devastation. Bedding from the nests was 
scattered everywhere, and the gorse 
bushes that sheltered the nursery and the 
elders’ den were half torn away. Worst 


of all, the center of the camp seemed to 
be covered with the bodies of injured 
cats; Crowfeather couldn’t tell how 
many of them might have been dead. The 
reek of blood filled the air, along with a 
lingering, horrible, familiar smell. 

Crowfeather’s belly clenched in 
panic. The stoats have attacked! 

He led the way down into the camp, 
flinching at the heavy scent of fear and 
blood. The first cat they came to was 
Emberfoot, who was lying on his side 
and bleeding from a deep scratch down 
his flank. 

As Crowfeather and the patrol 
approached him, Emberfoot raised his 
head and fixed them with an angry glare. 
“Onestar!” he yowled. “They’re back!” 


The WindClan leader emerged from 
his den and stalked across the camp, 
weaving his way through the bodies of 
his Clanmates. Crowfeather noticed a 
large, angry-looking wound on his neck 
and shoulder, and for a moment he 
couldn’t focus on anything else. What 
happened here? 

Then he saw that Onestar’s eyes 
were narrowed in fury as he halted in 
front of Crowfeather and the others. 

“How dare you leave camp without 
telling me?” he snarled. Crowfeather 
realized that the Clan leader wasn’t 
looking at him; his anger was directed 
toward Breezepelt, Heathertail, and 
Gorsetail. “You may have noticed,” he 
continued, waving his tail to indicate the 


wrecked camp, “that the stoats attacked 
us during the night. They were able to do 
this because”—he glared at Heathertail 
—“our border was not being watched.” 

The she-cat’s blue eyes shimmered 
with shame, as she dipped her head. But 
Crowfeather could tell, she didn’t dare 
speak. 

“Tt was a terrible battle!” Onestar 
went on. “It took a long time to drive 
them away, and many, many cats were 
injured.” 

Crowfeather gazed around the camp 
and at the bodies of his Clanmates 
strewn on the ground. Some had only 
minor wounds, though others were 
barely able to move. Onestar wasn’t 
exaggerating. This was a serious attack. 


“It was my idea to—” he began, but 
the Clan leader ignored him, as if he 
hadn’t spoken, or even as if he weren’t 
there. 

“If you had been here, as you were 
supposed to be,” Onestar went on, “you 
could have helped fight back. Three 
more warriors would have made a 
difference.” 

Guilt flooded over Crowfeather as 
he realized that his Clan leader was 
right. He was glad that his companions, 
especially Hootpaw, had avoided being 
injured in the battle, but he knew that 
they should have been there, doing their 
duty as warriors. “I’m sorry,” he 
meowed, letting his tail droop. “It’s my 
fault. I took them away from camp. But I 


had a good reason for it.” He stepped 
aside and Nightcloud came forward. 

Onestar gazed wide-eyed at the 
black she-cat, who dipped her head in 
greeting. “It’s good to see you again, 
Onestar.” 

“It’s even better to see you,” the 
Clan leader mewed, his voice still heavy 
with tension, like a storm cloud before it 
breaks. “Are you well?” 

“I am now,” Nightcloud replied. 
“Thanks to them.” She waved her tail at 
the others. 

“Pm glad to hear it,” Onestar 
responded. “I thought we’d lost you for 
good. Later you can tell me the whole 
story, but just now there’s far too much 
to do.” He then turned back to the others. 


His voice rose to a menacing growl. “/ 
am Clan leader, and you had no right to 
sneak off. You—” 

Onestar broke off as his gaze fell on 
Heathertail, who was standing at the 
back of the group, looking down at her 
paws. “Heathertail, when I couldn’t find 
you after the battle, I thought the stoats 
had gotten you. How do you think I felt 
then?” 

At that, Heathertail jerked up her 
head. “I’m sorry,” she meowed. “But I 
had to go. I wanted to help.” 

“Thats very noble,” Onestar 
responded, sounding as if he wasn’t sure 
whether to be furious with her or just 
glad that she was home safe. “But it 
doesn’t excuse any of you from breaking 


the warrior code. You could have cost 
cats’ lives by not being here. You did 
cost one cat’s life. Mine.” 

“What?” Gorsetail asked, her fur 
suddenly bushing up with alarm. 

“Look at this,” Onestar meowed, 
pointing to his own wound with his tail. 
“The stoats did that, and robbed me of a 
life.” 

Crowfeather closed his eyes briefly, 
feeling as if he were being drenched in 
icy water. His Clanmates’ absence had 
been responsible for his leader’s losing 
a life. Could this get any worse? When 
a cat became Clan leader, they received 
nine lives from StarClan, but when they 
had to lead their Clan into the worst of 
every danger, they couldn’t afford to 


throw any of those lives away. IJ don't 
know how many lives Onestar has left, 
but it can't be many. 

Crowfeather wanted to defend 
himself and his Clanmates, to point out 
they’d had no idea the stoats would 
attack, but looking at the fury in 
Onestar’s face, he knew that would be a 
very bad idea. 

But Breezepelt wasn’t so tactful. 
“Its not our fault!” he retorted. “If you 
had let us finish blocking the tunnels, 
like Harespring wanted, instead of 
traipsing back to camp once it got dark, 
the stoats couldn’t have gotten out—at 
least not on our side.” 

Crowfeather stared at his leader, 
feeling oddly left out. Harespring 


wanted to finish blocking the tunnels, 
but Onestar said no? All the things 
Breezepelt described had happened 
while he was gone. And he felt an 
unexpected sadness at the realization that 
Clan life had gone on without him. 

It was clear, too, that Onestar had 
made the wrong decision. He shivered at 
the thought of what might have happened. 
In a way, we’re lucky that the stoats 
didnt attack ThunderClan, he thought. 
Bramblestar would have been just as 
furious as Onestar, and we don't need 
any more trouble from him. 

Onestar fixed his gaze on Breezepelt. 
“The last time I looked, you weren't 
Clan leader, or even deputy,” he snarled. 
“I thought you had learned your lesson 


after the Great Battle, but now I’m not so 
sure. Are you a loyal WindClan cat?” he 
demanded. 

“Of course I am,” Breezepelt replied 
without hesitation. 

“Then you'd better start acting like 
it,” Onestar snapped. “T I1 be keeping my 
eye on you!” 

Breezepelt opened his jaws to 
defend himself, but Heathertail slapped 
her tail across his mouth and gave hima 
warning shake of the head. Breezepelt 
subsided, the familiar sullen look 
settling over his face. 

Gazing at his son, Crowfeather felt 
as small and miserable as a wet kit. / 
just wanted to save Nightcloud. I never 
meant to get Breezepelt into trouble 


again. Especially now, when he’s been 
doing so well. 

Onestar sighed, clearly trying to 
control himself. “I don’t have time to 
stand here and yowl at you,” he mewed. 

Could have fooled me, Crowfeather 
thought. 

“We have to rebuild the camp and 
help the injured cats,” the Clan leader 
went on. “Heathertail, you can help 
Kestrelflight in the medicine-cat den. 
He’s completely overwhelmed. 
Breezepelt, Gorsetail—you can help 
rebuild the camp. Furzepelt and Leaftail 
are in charge, so report to them.” 

As the three warriors moved away 
obediently, Onestar paused for a 
moment, gazing down at Hootpaw, who 


gazed back at him; Crowfeather guessed 
he was bravely trying not to flinch, or 
shrink away. “I’m not going to punish an 
apprentice for following his mentor,” 
Onestar growled. “But you'd better think 
about what you did, going behind your 
leader’s back, and show better 
judgment in future.” 

Hootpaw gave a nervous nod, then 
scurried off to join the other apprentices, 
who were gathering up the scattered 
bedding. Crowfeather watched him go, 
and heard his excited squeak as he 
joined his denmates. 

“We found Nightcloud and rescued 
her from Twolegs! And we climbed 
trees and fought foxes and crossed a 
Thunderpath. It was amazing!” 


Crowfeather stifled a mrrow of 
amusement. J hope Onestar didnt hear 
that. 

Onestar, meanwhile, had turned to 
Nightcloud. 

“Pm truly glad to see you back with 
us,” he meowed. “You’ve always been a 
loyal WindClan warrior. Later there’ ll 
be time for us to talk about what 
happened to you, but for now you should 
go and rest while we clear up the camp.” 

“Thank you,” Nightcloud responded 
with a respectful dip of her head. “But I 
don’t need to rest. For the last quarter 
moon, I’ve been living the life of a 
kittypet—not my choice, I’m sure you 
understand—with nothing to do except 
lie around all day and stuff myself with 


kittypet food.” 

Onestar gave her a curious look, as 
if he would have liked to ask her more, 
but said nothing. 

“Pd like to do my part,” Nightcloud 
continued. “You said Kestrelflight 1s 
overwhelmed—perhaps he could use my 
help, too.” 

Onestar gave her an approving nod 
and stepped back a few paces. 
Crowfeather stared at him, dreading 
what his Clan leader might say to him, 
but also desperately needing to hear it. 
Am I allowed back or not? Onestar’s 
expression was unreadable. 

Crowfeather turned nervously to 
Nightcloud. Now that their adventure 
was over, he wasn’t sure what to say to 


her. He had shared so much with this cat, 
and yet he still felt uncomfortable around 
her. If I’m still banished from the Clan, 
this might be the last time I ever speak 
to her. 

While Crowfeather was trying to 
gather his thoughts, Nightcloud gave an 
angry flick of her tail. “Don’t worry,” 
she mewed. “It’s not like you have to 
talk to me or anything.” 

Without waiting for a reply, she 
strode off toward the medicine-cat den. 

Crowfeather felt as if he were 
sinking down into the ground. J blew 
that. Here I’ve been doing so well with 
Breezepelt, but I still don't know what 
to say to Nightcloud. As his gaze 
followed her across the camp, he 


wondered, Have I learned anything at 
all? Crowfeather’s sense of guilt 
loomed over him like a storm cloud as 
he reflected on all the things he had 
never realized about his former mate: 
how brave and industrious she was, how 
well she had trained Hootpaw, how she 
had found the patience to be kind to a 
kittypet. He didn’t understand how he 
could ever have been mates with a cat he 
felt like he barely knew. 

As Nightcloud disappeared into 
Kestrel flight’s den, Crowfeather 
realized that Onestar was standing at his 
Shoulder. “Well, Crowfeather,” he 
sighed. “What am I going to do with 
you?” 

Crowfeather turned to face his Clan 


leader, once again not knowing what to 
say. Every hair in his pelt started to rise 
at the thought of apologizing, when he 
knew he had been right to ask for 
ThunderClan’s help, right to challenge 
Onestar about blocking up the tunnels. 
But at the same time his heart quailed 
when he imagined himself walking out of 
the camp again, a cat without a Clan. 

“I never intended—” he began. 

At the same moment, Onestar spoke. 
“Crowfeather, you’re the worst cat ve 
ever known for getting under my fur. But 
I have to admit that this time, you might 
have had a point. I shouldn’t have tried 
to block the tunnels.” 

Crowfeather stared at him, scarcely 
able to believe what he had just heard. 


Is he apologizing to me? 

Onestar looked down at his paws, 
digging his claws into the ground. “Do 
you want to come back?” he asked, not 
meeting Crowfeather’s gaze. 

Crowfeather wanted to yowl, “Yes!” 
but he made himself appear calm, and 
dipped his head respectfully to his Clan 
leader. “Yes, Pd like that, Onestar,” he 
mewed. 

“Then you are a WindClan cat 
again.” Onestar raised his head, and his 
voice dropped into a menacing growl. 
“Pm welcoming you back because you 
rescued Nightcloud, and because the 
Clan needs every able-bodied warrior. 
But there’s a border, Crowfeather, 
between being difficult and being 


disloyal. Make sure that your paws stay 
on the right side of that border.” 

Crowfeather tried to sound humble. 
“I will, Onestar.” 

“Then get yourself over to 
Kestrelflight and ask him what you can 
do. And Crowfeather—see that I don’t 
have to remind you about this 
conversation. Ever.” 


Crowfeather was crouching outside 
Kestrelflight’s den, chewing a mouthful 
of marigold for a poultice to put on 
Sedgewhisker’s wound. Sunhigh was 
just past, and he felt exhausted in his 
mind and body. The work was hard, and 
pain tore at his heart to see the injuries 
among his Clanmates. The air was filled 


with the scents of blood and fear, almost 
overwhelming Crowfeather, and his ears 
ached from the continual yowling of 
injured cats. There were too many 
wounds, and not enough herbs, and 
Kestrelflight had to make tough choices 
about which cats needed treatment most 
urgently. 

“I still can’t believe those stoats are 
pure white,” Crouchfoot muttered; he 
was sitting nearby, licking one forepaw 
where a claw had been torn away. 
“Except for the black tips to their tails. 
Whoever saw an animal like that 
before?” 

“Maybe they are ghosts after all,” 
Whiskernose suggested, twitching his 
whiskers as blood trickled down from a 


wound in his ear. “Its almost like they 
have something personal against 
WindClan.” 

“Nonsense!” Kestrelflight, who had 
been out on the moor collecting more 
herbs, halted beside the two toms and 
mumbled around the bunch of chervil in 
his jaws. “They’re not ghosts. They’re 
just stinky, aggressive invaders.” 

Crouchfoot and Whiskernose looked 
at each other but didn’t respond. 

All around the medicine-cat den, 
cats were moaning in pain. Crowfeather 
felt even more guilty that there was so 
little he could do to help. J should have 
gone to the Twolegplace by myself, he 
thought. J’m glad we found Nightcloud, 
but Breezepelt and the others would 


have been more use here. Maybe with 
more warriors, there wouldn't have 
been so many cats wounded. Then he 
admitted to himself that he would never 
have managed the hazardous journey 
through the forest and the Twolegplace if 
he had been alone. This must be the way 
it was meant to happen. 

Kestrelflight stumbled as he 
approached the den, letting his bundle of 
chervil fall. His eyes were dull with 
weariness. 

“Sit down,” Crowfeather meowed. 
“For StarClan’s sake, you need to rest. 
You’ve been up all night.” 

Kestrelflight let his gaze travel over 
the camp and the mass of injured cats, 
then shook his head. “I can’t. There’s far 


too much to do.” 

“We’ll be in even more trouble if 
you pass out,’ Crowfeather told him. 
“Sit down. ” 

Letting out a long sigh, Kestrelflight 
obeyed. His eyes were full of despair as 
he looked at the injured cats who were 
still waiting for his help. “I’m not sure I 
can do this alone,” he whispered. “Well 
—not alone,” he corrected himself at 
once, ducking his head apologetically at 
Heathertail and Nightcloud, who 
appeared at that moment with mouthfuls 
of dripping moss. “But I’m the only 
medicine cat... .” 

“We need help,’ Crowfeather 
declared, suddenly realizing how true 
that was. “There are too many injured 


warriors, and not enough medicine cats 
or herbs. We need help from another 
Clan.” 

“You're right.” Kestrelflight rose to 
his paws again with another heartfelt 
sigh. “But Onestar will never agree to 
it.” 

Crowfeather glanced across the 
camp to where Onestar was supervising 
the work on the warriors’ den. He 
remembered the last time he had gone to 
ThunderClan for help, and how badly 
that had turned out. Crowfeather’s 
instinct was to blame Onestar for being 
unreasonable, but he had to admit to 
himself that he had been to blame, too. 
He shouldn’t have brought in 
ThunderClan without knowing how 


Onestar would react. 

Now, when WindClan really needed 
ThunderClan, Crowfeather knew that his 
earlier rashness had made everything 
harder. But he knew too that he had no 
alternative: He had to convince Onestar 
to send for Leafpool or Jayfeather. 

It'll be hard to convince him, he 
thought, and it's going to be even harder 
to convince Bramblestar, after he was 
insulted when he came here to talk to 
Onestar—not to mention hearing from 
Ivypool that WindClan trespassed on 
his territory. But ThunderClan is the 
obvious choice to ask. They’re closest. 

Crowfeather rose to his paws. 
“Leave this to me,” he meowed. 

His paws prickling with 


apprehension, Crowfeather padded over 
to his Clan leader. He couldn’t forget 
that he had only just been allowed back 
into the Clan, and part of the reason he’d 
been banished was because he had asked 
for help from ThunderClan. And now he 
was about to ask permission to do the 
same. 

I'll have to tread really 
carefully. ... 

“Well?” Onestar asked, turning 
toward him as Crowfeather approached. 
His voice and his expression were as 
icy as a frost-bound stream. “What is it 
now?” 

“Tm sorry for persuading Breezepelt 
and the others to leave camp,” 
Crowfeather began, hoping that he could 


bring Onestar into a better mood. “I only 
did it because I was so worried about 
Nightcloud. Once I was sure she was 
alive, I just couldn’t leave her to fend 
for herself, or let my son go on suffering, 
wondering if she was out there 
somewhere, in pain. But now I see that 
what we did left the Clan vulnerable.” 

A growl rose from deep in Onestar’s 
throat; clearly the Clan leader was 
unimpressed by Crowfeather’s apology. 
But Crowfeather was relieved to see that 
at least he seemed to be listening. 

“Pve been thinking about what we 
ought to do now,” Crowfeather 
continued. “We only have one medicine 
cat, and he’s overstretched. If we’re not 
careful, he’s going to collapse. We need 


to ask medicine cats from other Clans to 
help us.” 

Onestar’s tail shot straight up in the 
air, and he bristled until each hair on his 
pelt looked like a hedgehog’s spike. “Do 
you have bees in your brain?” he 
demanded. “Haven’t you learned 
anything? How bad will it look, to ask 
for ThunderClan’s help after I sent them 
away? Do you want WindClan to seem 
weak?” 

“WindClan is weak at the moment,” 
Crowfeather retorted. “We need more 
skilled cats and more herbs. Okay, we 
might have to ask ThunderClan’s 
forgiveness, but surely it’s worth a bit of 
groveling? Please, Onestar. Cats’ lives 
are at stake.” 


Onestar was silent, but he let his tail 
relax and flexed his claws indecisively. 

“Isn’t protecting WindClan the most 
important thing?” Crowfeather prompted 
him. “Emberfoot has a serious wound 
and needs poppy seed for the pain, but 
Kestrelflight just used the last of it. 
Whiskernose and Sedgewhisker need 
poultices, but there’s no cobweb left to 
hold them in place. Kestrelflight can’t go 
looking for supplies and treat the 
wounded.” 

While he was speaking, Crowfeather 
saw Onestar’s hostile expression 
gradually change, and his fur lie flat 
again. For a few heartbeats he still said 
nothing, gazing thoughtfully at his paws. 
Aware of the moments slipping by, 


Crowfeather wanted to press him for an 
answer, but he realized that the most 
sensible thing he could do just then was 
to keep his mouth shut. 

At last Onestar gave a slow, 
reluctant nod. “Very well,” he mewed. 
“PII send cats to RiverClan to ask for 
Mothwing’s help.” 

“And ThunderClan,”’ Crowfeather 
added. Though he wasn’t surprised that 
Onestar wanted to avoid apologizing to 
Bramblestar, he knew that one Clan’s 
help might not be enough. “They are 
close too, and we need all the help we 
can get.” 

Onestar sighed, his gaze probing 
deep into Crowfeather’s eyes. “That’s 
true enough. All right,” he agreed. “Tf 


you think you can convince them... 
very well. You may go.” 

Crowfeather dipped his head in 
thanks to Onestar. As he turned away, he 
couldn’t help feeling pleased: That had 
been a difficult conversation, but he’d 
gotten through it successfully. 

And its a good thing, he thought, 
because this next conversation is going 
to be even harder... . 





CHAPTER 26 
» 


~v 


Crowfeather bounded across the moor 
with Harespring at his side, wondering 
what he could say to Bramblestar. Hope 
of finding help for his Clan had given 
him fresh energy, and he felt that he 
could face ThunderClan whatever 
happened. Knowing that Breezepelt and 
Gorsetail were on their way to 
RiverClan strengthened him, too. 
Mistystar had no reason to be hostile to 
WindClan, so they could at least count 
on her to send Mothwing or 
Willowshine. No WindClan cats will die 
today. 


Reaching the border stream, 
Crowfeather and Harespring halted. 
“We'd better wait for a patrol,” 
Crowfeather meowed, peering into the 
trees at the opposite side. “We don’t 
want to start off by trespassing. That 
would really get under their fur.” 

Harespring didn’t reply, though 
Crowfeather became aware that the 
deputy was gazing at him. He turned 
toward him and saw that Harespring was 
shaking his head slightly. “What?” he 
asked. 

“You're more optimistic than I am, if 
you think you can convince ThunderClan 
to help us after the way Bramblestar and 
Onestar confronted each other,” 
Harespring responded. “What were you 


thinking, going to ThunderClan without 
Onestar’s permission?” 

“I was thinking that I wanted to do 
what was right for WindClan,” 
Crowfeather replied. “Even if that 
wasn’t what Onestar wanted. Isn’t the 
whole Clan more important than any one 
cat—even if that cat is the Clan leader?” 

“Of course it is.” Harespring sat 
down at the edge of the stream, flicking 
his ears thoughtfully. “But Onestar is our 
leader. We might disagree with him, but 
in the end we must listen to him.” 

Crowfeather blinked at Harespring, 
realizing he had nothing to say to that. “I 
suppose going to ThunderClan wasn’t 
my smartest move,’ he meowed. He 
hesitated before he went on, knowing 





there was something he had to say to 
Harespring, however much he might not 
like admitting it. “Onestar was right to 
make you his deputy, Harespring. I know 
now that I still have more to learn.” 

Harespring’s whiskers arched in 
surprise. “I’ve always felt it should have 
been you, Crowfeather. I’m glad you feel 
you can accept me.” 

Crowfeather dipped his head in 
acknowledgment. “Anyway,” he added, 
trying to lighten the mood, “you must 
have bees in your brain if you think that 
ThunderClan would turn down the 
chance to get tangled up in another 
Clan’s affairs.” 

Harespring’s tail curled up in 
amusement. “You could be right,” he 


agreed. 

“Leafpool will help, if I can only 
meet with her,” Crowfeather mewed, 
hoping that he would be able to speak to 
Leafpool this time. Jayfeather will be 
even more hostile now, if we have to 
plead with him. 

Harespring hesitated before 
replying, and Crowfeather thought he 
was looking slightly awkward. His paws 
shifted uncomfortably, and when he 
spoke, his voice was a low murmur. “Is 
it strange,” he asked eventually, “talking 
to Leafpool after all this time? I know 
that you two used to be close.” 

“Close”? Thats putting it mildly! 
Crowfeather thought. Do J still have 
feelings for Leafpool? But then he 


thought of all that had happened in the 
seasons they’d been apart. They led 
separate lives now, and the idea of being 
together seemed even more impossible 
than it had seasons ago, when they’d 
tried to run away. He no longer felt an 
ache when he imagined Leafpool without 
him. Now he felt only admiration, and 
hope that she was happy. 

He shrugged. “All that is in the 
past,” he replied. “But I still respect 
Leafpool, and I think she’! want to help 
a Clan in need.” 

Deep in conversation with 
Harespring, Crowfeather was startled a 
moment later when a ThunderClan patrol 
emerged from the other side of a nettle 
patch. Poppyfrost was in the lead, with 


her apprentice, Lilypaw, while Birchfall 
brought up the rear. Crowfeather 
realized that while he and the deputy had 
been talking, he had forgotten to keep 
watch on the far bank of the stream. 
Mouse-brain! he scolded himself. 

Harespring rose to his paws; both he 
and Crowfeather dipped their heads 
respectfully to the ThunderClan cats. 

“Greetings,” Harespring meowed. 
“May we come across? We need to 
speak to Bramblestar.” 

Poppyfrost regarded them with 
narrowed eyes. “You again, 
Crowfeather? You’re spending more 
time in ThunderClan territory than in 
your own.” 

“I was very grateful for permission 


to cross,” Crowfeather responded, biting 
back a sarcastic retort. “We found 
Nightcloud. She’s fine, and she’s home 
now.” 

The ThunderClan cats looked 
surprised, and a little pleased, relaxing 
from their first suspicious demeanor. 
Crowfeather realized that no Clan cat 
would like to think of another lost and 
injured, even though she belonged to a 
different Clan. Ivypool had been 
concerned, too, and all the Clans had 
joined together to help one another 
against the Dark Forest. 

We’re Clan cats. It's what we do. 

“Good,” Poppyfrost mewed. “So 
why are you here now?” 

“We have a request to make of 


Bramblestar,” Harespring replied. 

Poppyfrost stared at him until she 
seemingly realized that MHarespring 
wasn’t going to reveal the request. 

“Let them come,” Birchfall prompted 
her. “It might be important.” 

Poppyfrost hesitated a moment 
longer, then nodded. “I suppose two cats 
aren’t an invasion,” she decided. “Okay, 
come over.” 

The stream here was too wide to 
leap, but shallow enough to wade 
through. Crowfeather padded forward 
cautiously, flinching at the cold feeling 
of water on his belly fur, though he was 
grateful for the refreshing touch on his 
tired paws. It feels like moons since 
I’ve been able to rest. 


On the other side both cats shook 
their pelts, being careful not to splatter 
the ThunderClan patrol, and at 
Poppyfrost’s command followed them 
through the trees in the direction of the 
ThunderClan camp. 

When they arrived in the stone 
hollow, the whole Clan seemed to be out 
in the open. Purdy was stretched out in 
front of the elders’ den, telling a story to 
Seedpaw while the apprentice searched 
him for ticks. Several warriors, 
including the deputy, Squirrelflight, were 
gossiping by the  fresh-kill pile. 
Brightheart and Daisy were enjoying the 
pale leaf-bare sun beside the entrance to 
the nursery, while Brightheart’s three 
kits wrestled and rolled about nearby. 


It seemed to Crowfeather that as 
soon as he and Harespring had emerged 
from the thorn tunnel and advanced a 
few paces into the camp, the gaze of 
every cat was trained on them. They 
dont look friendly, either. Every cat 
must know what Onestar said to 
Bramblestar. 

“Wait here,” Poppyfrost ordered 
them curtly. 

She raced across the camp and 
bounded up the tumbled rocks that led to 
Bramblestar’s den halfway up the camp 
wall. Crowfeather exchanged a glance 
with Harespring. 

“Let me do the talking,” the deputy 
meowed. “And for StarClan’s sake, 
don’t say anything to annoy 


Bramblestar.” 

“Pm not stupid,’ Crowfeather 
muttered. 

A moment later, Bramblestar 
appeared from his den and picked his 
way down the rocks to the camp floor. 
As he approached, Crowfeather could 
see that he seemed surprised and wary; 
his amber eyes were cold as he looked 
the two WindClan cats up and down. 

“Why are you here?” he asked. 

Harespring dipped his head 
respectfully. “Greetings, Bramblestar. 
We’ve come to ask for ThunderClan’s 
help. We need a medicine cat.” 

Bramblestar was silent for a 
moment, his gaze flicking from 
Harespring to Crowfeather and back 


again. “You need a medicine cat,” he 
repeated. “You’re asking for our help, 
after Onestar insulted me when I came to 
offer my help with the stoats?” 

“We’ve had more trouble with 
them,” Harespring responded. “Many of 
our cats are injured.” 

Bramblestar hesitated for a 
heartbeat, then turned to Squirrelflight, 
who had padded up to stand at her 
leader’s shoulder. “I don’t want any cat 
to suffer,” he meowed. “Fetch Leafpool 
and Jayfeather, please.” 

As Squirrelflight left, Bramblestar 
faced the WindClan cats again, giving 
his whiskers a disdainful twitch. “Tell 
me exactly what happened.” 

Harespring hesitated, casting an 


uncertain glance at Crowfeather, who 
could share his tension, knowing what 
Bramblestar’s reaction was likely to be. 
“We came up with a plan to deal with 
the stoats,” Harespring admitted at last. 
“We blocked up the tunnel entrances on 
our side, but that only made them angry. 
They attacked our camp last night. We 


“So you havent dealt with the 
stoats?” Bramblestar’s voice was a hiss 
of fury, and the fur on his muscular 
shoulders began to rise. “I suppose it 
didn’t occur to you that if you blocked 
up the tunnels at your end, that would 
drive the stoats out into ThunderClan 
territory? Or did you realize that, but you 
just didn’t care? It never crossed your 


mind that you might warn us?” He let out 
an angry snort. “I thought Onestar was an 
experienced leader. He said he had this 
under control!” 

Harespring couldn’t find words to 
reply, merely flexing his claws in the 
earth floor of the camp. Crowfeather 
thought that the silence would stretch out 
forever. I’m glad Harespring is doing 
the talking. I wouldn't know what to say 
to that, either. 

He was aware that the rest of the 
Clan was gathering around, their ears 
pricked eagerly to listen to this 
confrontation. The whole of 
ThunderClan will know how badly 
we ve handled this! 

Squirrelflight returned with Leafpool 


and Jayfeather, and the three cats thrust 
their way through the crowd to join the 
group at its center. 

Bramblestar was the first to break 
the silence. “Tell me if I have this 
straight,” he began; his voice was soft, 
but every word bit as hard as a fox’s 
fangs. “I went to Onestar to offer 
ThunderClan’s help in driving out the 
stoats. Onestar insulted me and my 
whole Clan, and insisted he would take 
care of the problem himself. His plan 
was a disaster, because he did not have 
the problem under control, and now he’s 
sending you to ask for ThunderClan’s 
help. Is that correct?” 

Harespring was obviously finding it 
difficult to meet the ThunderClan 


leader’s gaze. “Yes,” he mumbled at 
last. 

“I want to hear you say it,” 
Bramblestar growled. “I want to hear 
you say that Onestar’s decisions got his 
Clan into trouble and he needs 
ThunderClan’s help.” 

Harespring’s only response was to 
cast a helpless glance at Crowfeather. 
You wanted to do the talking, 
Crowfeather thought. So talk now. Can t 
you see that we don t have any choice? 

“Well?” Bramblestar asked, the tip 
of his tail twitching irritably. 

“We got ourselves into trouble and 
we need  ThunderClan’s help,” 
Crowfeather replied instantly. “I’m sorry 
for what happened,” he added, “but we 


need help right now, not anger. Cats 
could die.” 

Bramblestar paused for a moment; 
Crowfeather felt as though his belly 
were full of squabbling stoats as he 
waited for the ThunderClan leader’s 
decision. What kind of leader will he 
turn out to be? he asked himself. 

Eventually Bramblestar nodded. 
“Very well. Leafpool may go with you.” 

Leafpool’s expression was full of 
relief as she took a pace forward to 
stand beside Crowfeather. Crowfeather 
knew very well she hated to think of cats 
in need, whatever their Clan might be. 
All the warmth and affection he had once 
felt for her threatened to well up again 
inside him, and he ruthlessly pushed it 


down again. 

All that was over a long time ago. 
But even while he admitted that, 
Crowfeather asked himself whether he 
had ever felt as strongly as that about 
Nightcloud. No, I never did. Is that a 
bad thing? 

He forced himself out of his musing 
to hear Harespring thank Bramblestar. 
“We should leave right away,” he 
meowed. “Every moment might count for 
the injured cats.” 

Bramblestar dipped his head and 
turned away, heading back to his den. 
The rest of the cats began to disperse, 
back to their duties. 

Leafpool touched Crowfeather on the 
shoulder with the tip of her tail. “Wait 


for me a moment,” she mewed. “I need 
to fetch some herbs.” 

She bounded away toward the 
medicine-cat den, with Jayfeather beside 
her. He was telling her something, his 
tail twitching as he spoke. J cant 
imagine thats anything good, 
Crowfeather thought. Hes probably 
warning her to beware of the vicious, 
treacherous WindClan cats. 

Leafpool reappeared from the den a 
few moments later, a leaf wrap of herbs 
in her jaws, and with Harespring in the 
lead the three cats headed out of the 
camp. Crowfeather relaxed as they 
emerged at the far end of the thorn 
tunnel, away from all those curious 
ThunderClan eyes. 


Once they were out in the forest, 
Harespring drew a little way ahead; 
Crowfeather guessed he wanted to give 
him and Leafpool the chance to talk. 

I’m not sure thats a good idea. 
Theres not much we have to say to 
each other anymore. 

But Leafpool seemed quite 
unembarrassed to be alone with the 
warrior she had once valued more than 
both her Clan and her calling as a 
medicine cat. “Ivypool told me you went 
looking for Nightcloud,” she began, 
managing to talk around the leaf wrap. 
Her gaze was friendly and sympathetic. 
“Did you find her?” 

“Yes,” Crowfeather replied. “Some 
Twolegs were looking after her, and we 


had to rescue her from their den. She’s 
fine now.” 

“Pm so glad! Leafpool hesitated, 
then went on more diffidently, “Now you 
and Nightcloud will have the chance to 
work things out. After all, having kits 
ties you together forever, no matter what 
happens after that... .” 

Her voice trailed off, and she cast 
Crowfeather an awkward, flickering 
glance before padding on with her gaze 
fixed firmly on her paws. 

Like we did . . . Crowfeather too 
looked at the ground to hide his 
discomfort. What Leafpool had just said 
applied to them, too, of course, but 
neither of them dared say it aloud. 

After a few moments, Crowfeather 


summoned the courage to continue. “It’s 
true what you say. And I would like to be 
friends with Nightcloud, if I ever 
manage to tell her so.” 

He remembered how he and 
Nightcloud had been allies during her 
rescue and on the journey home, but that 
closeness hadn’t survived their return to 
camp. He still didn’t really know what 
to say to her. 

By the time Crowfeather and 
Leafpool crossed the border stream and 
left the trees behind to climb up onto the 
moor, Harespring was out of sight. 
Crowfeather wondered whether he had 
gone on ahead to tell WindClan that help 
was on its way. 

Then Crowfeather spotted movement 


behind an outcrop of rock, and thought 
that the deputy must be waiting there for 
them. But the creature that emerged into 
the open wasn’t Harespring. Instead of 
the deputy’s bright eyes and brown-and- 
white pelt, Crowfeather saw blinding 
white fur and sharp teeth. 

Its one of those StarClan-cursed 
stoats ! 

The small white animal tottered 
toward them; its legs looked weak, and 
Crowfeather guessed that it must be ill, 
or maybe had been wounded in the 
battle. 

“So that’s a stoat!” Leafpool 
exclaimed, her voice sounding intrigued. 
“Tve never seen one before. It looks . . . 
disgusting.” 


“They are,” Crowfeather told her, 
remembering how the WindClan 
apprentices had underestimated the 
creatures. “They don’t look that 
threatening, but they’re vicious fighters. 
We need to—” 

He broke off as the stoat, drawing 
nearer to them, suddenly made a dart at 
Leafpool, who started back, scattering 
the herbs she had been carrying. With a 
yowl of outrage, Crowfeather dashed in 
and intercepted it. Even though the stoat 
had looked sick, it was still a wild, 
ferocious fighter, rearing up and slashing 
its small claws at Crowfeather’s face. 

Crowfeather was terrified that the 
stoat would tear at his eyes and blind 
him. Squeezing his eyes shut, he 


managed to grip the sleek creature with 
his forepaws and drag it to the ground 
with him, battering at his opponent with 
his hind paws. 

But the stoat was wiry and sinuous, 
and Crowfeather couldn’t hang on to it. 
He felt it slip out of his claws, followed 
by an intense, sharp pain in his hind leg. 
Opening his eyes, Crowfeather saw the 
stoat with its teeth fastened in his leg just 
above his paw. Leafpool had bounded 
up and was slashing at the stoat’s 
hindquarters. 

“No! Get back” Crowfeather 
yowled, terrified that the vicious 
creature would turn on her. 

Swiping a forepaw at the stoat’s 
head, Crowfeather knocked it clear. It 


scrambled to its paws and looked 
around, its malignant gaze fastening on 
Leafpool, who was still within a fox- 
length of it. 

As the stoat leaped for her, 
Crowfeather found a sudden burst of 
energy. No way will I let Leafpool die 
on WindClan territory! Intercepting the 
stoat before it could reach Leafpool, he 
gripped its shoulder with his teeth and 
dragged it away. He raised one paw, 
claws extended, to slash at the creature’s 
throat, but before he could strike, the 
stoat twisted its body, thrust its hind 
paws at Crowfeather, and managed to 
wrench itself free. Scrambling out of 
range, it fled for the tunnels. 

I guess it doesnt want to fight 


anymore, Crowfeather thought. Well, 1 
won t give it the choice. 

Crowfeather was about to follow the 
stoat when Leafpool darted in front of 
him. “Don’t!” she meowed anxiously. 
“Youre injured.” 

Blinking in confusion, Crowfeather 
looked down at his hind leg. Blood was 
gushing from the place where the stoat 
had bitten him. 

“Look at that! Now we have another 
injured WindClan cat. The bleeding’s 
bad, Crowfeather,” she added. “Try not 
to go to sleep.” 

Crowfeather wondered vaguely why 
he would want to sleep out here, away 
from his den. But now that the fight was 
over, his energy ebbing, the pain in his 


leg grew until it seemed to take over his 
whole body. His ears were filled with a 
sound like rushing water. 

Rushing dark water... ? As he 
stumbled on toward the camp, 
Crowfeather thought once more about 
Kestrel flight’s dream, wondering 
whether the stoats were what the dark 
water, gushing from the caves, was 


pointing to. 
Am I going to die? The first death 
in a series that will end in . . . what? 


The fall of the Clans? His vision of the 
second wave, the one that engulfed 
everything, was somehow mingled with 
the sight of his Clanmates that morning, 
lying wounded in the middle of the 
camp. And somewhere in all the 


confusion he could hear the amused 
purring of a long-haired white kittypet. 

Harespring’s voice seemed to come 
to him from a great distance. “I heard 
yowling. What happened?” 

Leafpool’s voice sounded far away, 
too, and faded in and out so that 
Crowfeather could hardly make sense of 
her words. 

“. . . fighting a stoat . . . bleeding is 
so bad . . . Harespring, find me some 
cobweb.” 

Crowfeather sensed movement 
around him, and a firm touch on his leg, 
followed by Leafpool’s distant voice 
again. “Harespring, help me lift him... 
get him to your camp.” 

When did I fall to the ground? 


Crowfeather wondered. He felt strong 
paws begin to raise him, the movement 
sending a stab of pain through him that 
took his breath away. With a sigh of 
relief, he gave himself up to swirling 
darkness. 





CHAPTER 27 
» 


~v 


Dark clouds whirled around 
Crowfeather, shot through with flashes 
of lurid red light, as if the sun were 
setting through a storm. Now and again 
he caught glimpses of familiar faces: 
Nightcloud, Feathertail, Leafpool, and 
their kits, but as he imagined they had 
been in the nursery: innocent young cats 
with no idea of the pain they would have 
to suffer. Crowfeather tried to reach out 
to them, but they were swept away from 
him into a roaring darkness. At last a 
great wave surged up around him, 
closing over his head and leaving him to 


float in starless night. 

Gradually, Crowfeather became 
aware of quiet movement around him 
and the sharp tang of herbs in his nose. 
He opened his eyes to find himself in 
Kestrelflight’s den, with a blurred tabby 
shape sorting herbs a tail-length away 
from him. 

“Leafpool?” he murmured, managing 
to focus his eyes. For a moment he 
wondered why a ThunderClan medicine 
cat would be working in the WindClan 
camp. It was seasons since he and 
Leafpool had been alone together, and 
Crowfeather half believed she was still 
part of his hectic dream. 

Leafpool turned to him, her eyes 
wide and welcoming. “Oh, you’re 


awake!” she purred. “Thank StarClan!” 

“What am I doing here?” 
Crowfeather asked, confused and trying 
to shake off sleep. “Why are you in 
Kestrelflight’s den? What happened?” 

“Don’t you remember coming to 
ThunderClan? And then the fight with the 
stoat?” Leafpool asked. “It gave you a 
bad bite on your leg, and you lost a lot of 
blood, but you’re going to be fine.” 

“The stoats . . .” Crowfeather 
blinked in confusion, then suddenly 
remembered everything: Kestrelflight’s 
vision, the attack on the camp, and his 
journey to ThunderClan to fetch 
Leafpool. 

“Pd better be fine,” he muttered, 
struggling to sit up and shaking scraps of 


bedding from his pelt. A twinge of pain 
on his leg reminded him of where he had 
been bitten. “Onestar needs every 
warrior—” 

“Onestar will have to get along 
without this warrior for the time being,” 
Leafpool interrupted tartly. “You’re 
weak, and you'll need time to recover.” 
As Crowfeather was about to protest, 
she raised her tail to silence him. “Don’t 
you dare argue.” 

She moved to the back of the den and 
returned a moment later with a mouthful 
of wet moss. “There,” she mewed, 
setting it down beside Crowfeather. 
“Drink. P11 go and find some cat to fetch 
you fresh-kill.” 

Crowfeather watched her as she 


slipped out of the den, then lowered his 
head to lap water from the moss. It was 
cool and reviving, and he let out a sigh 
of resignation. 

Being injured isnt bad, he reflected. 
Its kind of a relief to have to let some 
other cat take care of me. 

Crowfeather was drowsing in his 
nest again when Kestrelflight came into 
the den and stood over him, giving the 
wound on his leg a good sniff. “That’s 
coming along okay,” he commented. “No 
sign of infection.” 

“How is the rest of the Clan?” 
Crowfeather asked. 

“Also coming along okay,” 
Kestrelflight replied with a purr of 
satisfaction. “Thank you so much for 


convincing Onestar to ask for help from 
other Clans. Mistystar sent Mothwing, 
and she’s helping to tend to the injured 
cats. We have enough herbs for every 
cat, and all the wounded are being 
looked after.” 

“Thats really good news,” 
Crowfeather meowed. “I wonder what 
we’ll do about the stoats now.” 

“Nothing, for the time being,” 
Kestrelflight replied. “We must get all 
our cats healthy first, and then we can 
decide.” 

At that moment, Leafpool reappeared 
at the entrance to the den with a spray of 
leaves in her jaws. “Thyme leaves,” she 
mewed, dropping the spray in front of 
Crowfeather. “Eat them. Theyre good 


for shock.” 

“I don’t need—” Crowfeather began, 
then broke off as Leafpool pushed the 
leaves closer to him. 

“Do as you're told, you daft furball.” 

Crowfeather rolled his eyes but 
licked up the thyme leaves without 
further protest. 

Kestrel flight glanced from 
Crowfeather to Leafpool and back again. 
There was a wary look in his eyes. 
“Crowfeather, PI leave you in 
Leafpool’s capable paws,” he meowed. 
“PII be back to check on you later.” 

“I thought you said something about 
fresh-kill,” Crowfeather complained 
when the medicine cat was gone. “My 
belly thinks my throat’s torn out.” 


“Ill be along in a few moments,” 
Leafpool responded in an amused tone. 
Settling down beside him, she added, 
“How do you feel?” 

Crowfeather shifted experimentally. 
“My leg hurts as if a badger is trying to 
gnaw it off, but otherwise I’m fine.” 

Leafpool fixed a steady gaze on him 
from warm amber eyes. “Are you really, 
Crowfeather?” she asked. “Tell me the 
truth.” 

How can I answer that? 
Crowfeather asked himself. How can I 
tell Leafpool about my problems with 
Breezepelt and Nightcloud, and how 
Onestar nearly banished me from the 
Clan for good? He shifted 
uncomfortably in his nest; his chest 


clenched, and the pain in his leg almost 
made him forget his hunger pangs. 
“Things have been better,” he admitted. 
Hoping to distract Leafpool, he added, 
“How are you doing in ThunderClan?” 

Leafpool twitched her ears at him, 
showing she knew very well why he was 
changing the subject. “I’m okay,” she 
replied. “StarClan has accepted me 
again, so I can work as a full medicine 
cat.” 

“Pm glad.” Crowfeather paused, 
then went on. “And Lionblaze and 
Jayfeather—do they... ?” 

“They've accepted me, too, 
Leafpool responded. “I think they’ll 
always feel that Squirrelflight is their 
true mother, but . . . well, we get along. 





99 


Hollyleaf was the cat who could never 
accept that she was half-Clan.” 

And Hollyleaf is dead, Crowfeather 
thought bleakly. Before I ever had the 
chance to get to know her. 

“Hollyleaf died nobly, protecting her 
Clan,” Leafpool told him, as if she could 
read his mind. “In spite of all that had 
gone before. You can be proud of her, 
Crowfeather. You can be proud of all 
your kits.” 

Including Breezepelt? 

Crowfeather had a sudden impulse to 
confide in Leafpool. Once, he had been 
able to open his heart to her, and 
although those days were past, he still 
felt that he could trust her more than any 
other cat. Besides, Leafpool was a 


ThunderClan cat, and wouldn’t be 
prejudiced against Breezepelt in the 
same way as his Clanmates. He could 
speak frankly to her without worrying 
what other cats would think. 

“I want to be proud of Breezepelt,” 
he confessed. “But it’s hard. There’s so 
much anger inside him. I know he’s a 
brave and loyal warrior, but it’s as if he 
doesn’t know how to show that. To me 
or to his Clan.” 

“But things may be getting better,” 
Leafpool responded. “From what I hear, 
he fought bravely against the stoats. And 
he did well when he went with you to 
search for Nightcloud.” 

Crowfeather nodded, feeling a little 
encouraged. “He would do anything to 


help his mother.” Then he let out a sigh. 


“Nightcloud . . . Pd do anything to 
connect with her and Breezepelt. But 
somehow . . . What do you think, 


Leafpool? Why does it always go 
wrong?” 

Leafpool stifled an amused mrrow. 
“Crowfeather asking another cat for 
advice!” she exclaimed. “What next?” 
More seriously, she added, “No matter 
what, Breezepelt and Nightcloud are 
your kin. True, you’ve had a difficult 
past, but you could have a good future.” 
She leaned closer to Crowfeather, fixing 
him with her amber gaze. “Admit it, 
Crowfeather,” she mewed gently, “you 
might have had a paw in your problems 
with both of them. You’re not the easiest 


cat in the forest to get along with.” 
“You're saying Im difficult?” 
Crowfeather was outraged, but a 
heartbeat later he had to recognize the 
truth of what Leafpool had said. J did 
push Onestar too far, he admitted to 
himself. And I could have been more 
supportive of  Breezepelt. “I 
suppose. . . .” he grumbled. “So you 
think I need to make more of an effort?” 
“Exactly,” Leafpool agreed. “Try to 
talk to them about how you really feel.” 
Had she been talking to his dead 
mother? That was almost the exact same 
advice Ashfoot had given him. “P Il try, 
but—” Crowfeather began. 
At that moment, a paw step sounded 
outside the den and Nightcloud entered, 


carrying a vole in her jaws. “Fresh-kill,” 
she meowed, dropping it beside 
Crowfeather’s nest and giving Leafpool 
a long look with narrowed eyes. 

Crowfeather’s pelt prickled with the 
awkwardness of being so close to two 
she-cats who had each been his mate. 
Leafpool gave him a meaningful gaze, 
and he was pretty sure of what she was 
trying to tell him. 

“Thank you, Nightcloud,” he mewed. 
“That’s kind of you. Do you want to 
share?” 

Nightcloud’s eyes widened in 
surprise, and she glanced across at 
Leafpool, as if she was wondering 
whether Crowfeather had offered to 
share in an attempt to make the 


ThunderClan she-cat jealous. 

“No, I already ate.” Nightcloud’s 
tone was abrupt, but she settled down 
beside Crowfeather, tucking her paws 
underneath her. 

“Pd better be going,” Leafpool put 
in, rising to her paws with a polite nod 
to Nightcloud. “I have to check on the 
other wounded cats.” Picking up a bunch 
of chervil in her jaws, she padded out of 
the den. 

Crowfeather, who had taken a bite of 
the vole, quickly swallowed. Though he 
was struggling to find the right words, he 
remembered Leafpool’s advice, and 
realized that he had to try. “Nightcloud, 
I’m sorry if I offended you yesterday,” 
he meowed. “I wasn’t sure what to say 


to you, now that you’re back.” 

Nightcloud gave him a hard stare, 
and for a moment Crowfeather was 
afraid that once again he had said the 
wrong thing. Then the black she-cat 
seemed to soften. 

“The truth is, I was badly hurt in the 
tunnels,” she began after a heartbeat’s 
hesitation. “And as much as I told those 
kittypets that I was a Clan cat, and I 
belonged with my Clan . . . honestly, 
after the Twolegs rescued me, I wasn’t 
sure that I wanted to come back to 
WindClan.” 

“Not come back?” Every hair on 
Crowfeather’s pelt prickled with shock. 
He couldn’t believe he was hearing this 
from Nightcloud. She’s the most loyal 


WindClan warrior I know! 

“At least, not right away,” 
Nightcloud continued. “I felt so weak 
and tired. . . . I never seriously thought 
that I would stay away forever, but for 
the time being it was good to be a 
kittypet—to have food and warmth and 
safety without having to chase prey, or 
risk my life fighting foxes. And I was... 
well, I was adored just for who I was. I 
had never felt that before, and it was sort 
of nice. Even when I was prickly, my 
Twolegs and Pickle never stopped trying 
to make me happy and comfortable. 
Pickle may have been a kittypet, but he 
was kind to me. He let me share his nest, 
and gave up his best napping spots for 
me. He shared his favorite toys with me, 


even when I told him I didn’t play with 
toys. He acted like I was the most 
important cat in the world.” 

Pickle? Stupid name! Stupid cat! 

But despising Pickle couldn’t keep 
Crowfeather from hearing Nightcloud’s 
words .. . or from feeling the guilt they 
brought out. 7 never treated her that 
way, he realized. I never thought of her 
as being important. There had been 
warmth in Nightcloud’s voice as she 
described her life with Pickle. Kittypet 
or not, he’d tried to make her happy. 

I was her mate. . . . I should have 
made her feel happy and valued like 
that, but I didn't. I failed. 

His pelt grew hot with shame as he 
remembered that he had never paid much 


attention to Nightcloud’s nest or what 
she was eating, even when she was 
pregnant with their kits. He had always 
assumed she could take care of herself. 
And that, he realized, was because he 
had never loved her as he had loved 
Feathertail or Leafpool. Pain stabbed 
through his heart as he recognized how 
that must have felt for Nightcloud. 

“Mind you,” Nightcloud went on, “if 
you tell any other cat I said that, Pll 
claw your fur off and use it to line my 
nest.” 

Crowfeather let out a mrrow of 
laughter. “You would, too!” 

Suddenly the tension between them 
seemed to have vanished. Hungrily 
Crowfeather gulped down a few more 


mouthfuls of the vole, then dared to 
meow quietly, “I’m sorry, Nightcloud. I 
never treated you like your feelings were 
important. Im sorry you had to wait to 
get that from a kittypet.” 

Nightcloud said nothing, but when 
she looked down at him, her eyes were 
warmer than he had ever seen them. 

“Should we . . . should we be mates 
again?” Crowfeather suggested 
hesitantly. Zs that what I’m supposed to 
say? 

Nightcloud shook her head, but when 
she spoke, her voice was gentle. “No, 
and if you’re honest with yourself, 
Crowfeather, you don’t want that either. 
Admit it: We don’t love each other, and 
maybe we never did.” 


Reluctantly, Crowfeather had to 
recognize the wisdom in the she-cat’s 
words, though a pang of regret pierced 
him as he responded. “I think you’re 
right. But . . . I do admire you, 
Nightcloud. You’re an amazing warrior.” 

Nightcloud let out a tiny snort. 
“Youre not so bad yourself. And 
remember,” she added, “Breezepelt will 
always be our kit. We owe it to him to 
try to get along.” 

“True,” Crowfeather sighed. 
“Nightcloud, I’m sorry that I’ve treated 
you badly. Can we be friends . . . if only 
for Breezepelt’s sake?” 

“Pd like that,’ Nightcloud purred. 
Rising to her paws, she stooped over 
Crowfeather and rubbed her cheek 


against his. “You need to rest, 
Crowfeather. Maybe we’ll talk later.” 

Crowfeather watched her as she 
padded out of the den. She was right that 
he needed rest: Their conversation had 
taken as much out of him as a patrol 
around the whole of the territory. He 
finished the last mouthful of vole, curled 
up, and closed his eyes. 

Oh, StarClan, please don't send me 
back into that terrible dream. .. . 


As soon as Crowfeather slipped into 
sleep, he saw the pale shape of his 
mother, Ashfoot, in front of him. This 
time he wasn’t chasing her through the 
tunnels: She was sitting beside a pool in 
a lush forest clearing where ferns arched 


over the water and a tiny spring trickled 
down from the rocks above. 

“Greetings, Crowfeather,’ Ashfoot 
meowed. This time her tone was 
approving. “Finally, you’ve taken the 
lessons of your dreams to heart.” 

“Lessons?” Crowfeather asked, 
stifling an incredulous mrrow of 
laughter. “What were the lessons? I’ve 
nearly worn my brain out trying to 
understand why I’m even having these 
dreams!” 

“ve told you the most important 
lesson.” Ashfoot’s voice was a gentle 
murmur. “To love. You must open 
yourself to love again. And I sent you the 
dream of Hawkfrost and Hollyleaf to 
show you how much you care about all 


your kits, whatever happens to them. You 
must reopen your heart to Breezepelt and 
be a father to him.” 

Guilt weighed heavily on 
Crowfeather’s shoulders as he replied. 
“I see that now,” he admitted. “I only 
hope I can be as good a father to 
Breezepelt as you were a mother to me.” 

Ashfoot’s gaze was warm and 
brilliant. “Pm proud of you, 
Crowfeather,” she purred. “At last, 
yov’re beginning to change.” 

Crow feather stared at his mother. All 
at once, he felt a terrible ache in his 
heart as he realized that their private 
chats were over. His love for her was 
simple and overwhelming—the love of a 
kit for his mother. 


Maybe thats how Breezepelt feels 
about me, he realized, even though I 
haven't always deserved it. But I will, 
he promised himself, watching the image 
of his mother weaken. 

As the dream faded and Crowfeather 
blinked awake, back in the medicine-cat 
den, he decided once and for all that 
things would be different. 

I will make sure Breezepelt knows I 
love him, just like Ashfoot loved me, he 
vowed to himself. Changing is hard. . . 
but if it saves Breezepelt, it will be 
worth it. 





CHAPTER 28 
» 


~v 


The full moon floated over the lake as 
Crowfeather pushed his way through the 
bushes that surrounded the clearing on 
the Gathering island. WindClan was the 
last to arrive; the other three Clans were 
already mingling on the moonwashed 
grass, their heads together as they 
exchanged news and gossip. Onestar 
picked his way through the crowd and 
leaped up to join the other leaders in the 
Great Oak. 

Many days had passed since the 
stoats had attacked the WindClan camp. 
Most of the injured cats had recovered, 


though Crowfeather still felt a twinge of 
pain when he put his weight on his 
wounded hind leg. Leafpool and 
Mothwing had returned to their own 
Clans and now sat close to the Great 
Oak with their fellow medicine cats. 

As soon as Onestar had settled 
himself on a branch, Blackstar lifted his 
head to get every cat’s attention: “Before 
we begin, let us remember the 
fallen...” 

As he had done at the last gathering, 
Blackstar spoke the names of the 
warriors lost in the Great Battle. 

As soon as he’d finished, 
Bramblestar stepped forward and started 
the real meeting. The chatter in the 
clearing died away as the ThunderClan 


leader reported that his patrols were 
keeping an eye on foxes visiting their 
territory, and that they had chased away 
a Twoleg’s stray dog. 

“Yes, you chased it onto our 
territory,’ Blackstar complained, rising 
to his paws. “Thank you very much. Its 
Twolegs came looking for it, stomping 
all over the forest with their huge paws. 
But it’s gone now, so no more problem.” 

Bramblestar dipped his head 
politely, then waved his tail at Mistystar 
for her to begin her report. 

“RiverClan is doing fine,” Mistystar 
reported. “The prey is running well, 
considering it’s leaf-bare, and the lake is 
full of fish. Onestar,” she continued, 
turning to the WindClan leader, “how are 


your injured warriors?” 

“I hope they're recovering,” 
Bramblestar added. 

Onestar dipped his head politely to 
the two leaders. “They are all doing 
well,” he responded. “Thank you for 
your help. And I think you have all heard 
that Nightcloud isn’t dead after all. We 
welcome her back to her Clan.” 

“Nightcloud! Nightcloud!” the cats in 
the clearing yowled, echoing Onestar’s 
welcome. 

The black she-cat, who was sitting a 
tail-length away from Crowfeather, 
dipped her head in thanks, her eyes 
gleaming with pleasure that cats from 
other Clans were happy to see her again. 

You wouldnt get that living with 


Pickle and the Twolegs, Crowfeather 
thought. 

“And what about the stoats in the 
tunnels?” Mistystar asked. “Have you 
been able to deal with them?” 

Crowfeather forced himself not to 
wince. That was a question that Onestar 
would find hard to answer. 

“We haven’t forgotten, but our Clan 
has been concentrating on healing,” the 
WindClan leader replied. 

“So you haven’t done anything?” 
Bramblestar’s tone was respectful, but 
he was obviously determined to get at 
the truth. “The stoats are still a problem 
—still a threat to more than one Clan?” 

“We haven’t dealt with them yet,” 
Onestar told him reluctantly. “The stoats 


have broken through some of the 
entrances that we stopped up, so that 
plan won’t work.” 

“And do you have another plan?” 
Bramblestar asked. 

“Tve discussed the problem with my 
senior warriors,” Onestar told him. “But 
so far we haven’t come up with an 
alternative.” 

Crowfeather | remembered that 
meeting, a few days after the attack on 
the camp. No cat had come up with a 
solution, except to ask ThunderClan for 
help again, and they were all reluctant to 
test Bramblestar’s good nature any 
further. 

Crowfeather was aware of cats 
stirring around him, exchanging glances 


and muttering under their breath. His fur 
began to rise all along his spine as he 
realized they were blaming WindClan 
for not dealing with the invaders. He 
was tempted to agree, but he knew that 
problems always seemed easier to solve 
when you weren’t the cat trying to solve 
them. 

“Huh! Pd like to see them trying to 
fight with the vicious little mange-pelts,” 
Nightcloud hissed. 

Crowfeather gave her an approving 
nod. “Yeah, they don’t know what we’re 
up against,” he agreed. 

Bramblestar raised his voice to be 
heard over the rising noise in the 
clearing. “Cats of all Clans!” he 
announced. “This is not just WindClan’s 


problem. Already in ThunderClan we’ ve 
had to deal with some of these creatures 
coming onto our territory. If they aren’t 
stopped, they could easily spread to 
ShadowClan and RiverClan.” 

“What?” Blackstar started up, as if 
he had been half dozing. His eyes were 
wide with alarm. 

Hes starting to look old, 
Crow feather thought. How much use will 
he be to deal with a crisis like this? 

“Onestar,” Bramblestar continued, 
“PII make you the same offer that I made 
before. ThunderClan is ready to help. 
We must work together; it’s the only 
hope we have of driving out the stoats.” 

“Great  StarClan!” Nightcloud 
whispered in Crowfeather’s ear, “Let’s 


not have another argument like the one in 
our camp. Breezepelt told me all about 
it, and I couldn’t believe what Onestar 
said!” 

“Onestar wouldn’t say the same now 
—not at a Gathering,’ Crowfeather 
responded, though he wasn’t at all sure 
that it was true. 

Onestar hesitated for a long moment, 
staring at the ThunderClan leader. Then, 
slowly, he dipped his head. “Very well. 
WindClan thanks you, Bramblestar.” 

“RiverClan will help too, if we’re 
needed,” Mistystar meowed. “And 
ShadowClan too, Blackstar?” 

Blackstar gave his pelt a shake. “I 
suppose so,” he grunted. 

The decision made, the cats in the 


clearing were settling down again when 
Crowfeather noticed that his son 
Lionblaze was looking uncomfortable, 
shifting impatiently as if he wanted to 
speak. Whats biting him? he wondered. 

Lionblaze suddenly leaped to his 
paws. “Bramblestar, I want to say 
something!” 

His Clan leader looked down at him, 
a slight look of disapproval in his eyes. 
“Very well. Go on,” he mewed. 

Crowfeather saw Lionblaze’s glance 
swivel around the clearing until it 
lighted on Breezepelt. For a couple of 
heartbeats the two half brothers glared at 
each other. Dread bubbled up inside 
Crowfeather as he realized where this 
was going. 


“I don’t want to fight beside 
Breezepelt,” Lionblaze growled, with an 
angry glare at the WindClan warrior, 
who was sitting beside Heathertail in the 
shadow of the bushes. “He tried to kill 
me in the battle with the Dark Forest.” 

I thought all that was over. 
Crowfeather’s heart sank as he had to 
accept that he was wrong. It was many 
days since he had heard a WindClan cat 
speak out against Breezepelt, but he had 
forgotten how Lionblaze might still be 
bearing a grudge. 

“And I still think WindClan was 
spying on us when we caught 
Crowfeather and Breezepelt in the 
tunnels,” Berrynose added, coming to 
stand beside Lionblaze. 


Crowfeather could hear other 
ThunderClan warriors murmuring 
agreement, and was bracing himself to 
stand up. He didn’t want to make a scene 
at a Gathering, and he had the horrible 
feeling that whatever he did, he was 
going to upset one of his sons. But he 
couldn’t let the chance pass of showing 
support for Breezepelt. 

However, before Crowfeather had 
decided what to say, Bramblestar waved 
his tail for silence once again. 

“The trouble with the Dark Forest is 
over,” the ThunderClan leader meowed 
decisively. He turned a cold gaze on 
Lionblaze and Berrynose. “Raking up 
old quarrels will do no cat any good. We 
must all learn to trust one another. We 


must move forward and not think about 
the past.” 

Lionblaze, though he was obviously 
unhappy about his leader’s rebuke, 
dipped his head and sat down again. 
Berrynose sat beside him and muttered 
something into Lionblaze’s ear. 

Crowfeather could hear more 
grumbling remarks from the cats around 
him. Though most of them were too low- 
pitched for him to make out the words, 
he had a good idea of what was being 
said. 

“ThunderClan would feel that way.” 
That was Weaselfur; he was sitting so 
close to Crowfeather that he had no 
trouble hearing him. “They had cats who 
trained with the Dark Forest, but no real 


traitors.” His eyes narrowed with 
hostility as he turned his head to gaze at 
Breezepelt. 

Crowfeather saw from Breezepelt’s 
hostile glare at the gray-and-white she- 
cat that he had noticed, and that he 
understood Weaselfur’s implication that 
he was a real traitor, since he had fought 
on the side of the Dark Forest. 

His Clanmates still dont trust him, 
Crowfeather thought sadly. Even after 
all he’s done, battling the stoats and 
helping to bring Nightcloud home. 

For the first time, instead of 
becoming angry and uncomfortable 
himself, Crowfeather imagined how his 
son must be feeling. He rose to speak, 
but before he could, Breezepelt leaped 


to his paws and spoke in a voice so 
confident, his words rang out across all 
the clearing. 

“No cat has to trust me, or the other 
Dark Forest warriors. We will prove 
ourselves, and then no other cat will 
dare to doubt our loyalty.” 

“Yes! You'll see!” Whiskernose 
yowled. 

“We’re just as loyal as the rest of 
you!” Larkwing added. 

Harespring backed up his Clanmates 
sturdily. “We trained in the Dark Forest 
to help our Clans!” 

The yowls of support for Breezepelt 
rose up everywhere in the clearing from 
the other cats who had been deceived by 
the Dark Forest. They must all be 


feeling that they have something to 
prove, Crowfeather realized, not just 
Breezepelt. Onestar had made a Dark 
Forest warrior his deputy, Crowfeather 
knew, but not all the Clan leaders had 
made such public displays of acceptance 
and support. J wonder how the Dark 
Forest cats in other Clans are getting 
along. 

The rest of the cats fell silent; 
glancing around, Crowfeather could tell 
that some cats had at least had been 
convinced by Breezepelt’s bold 
declaration. 

Mistystar spoke from her branch of 
the Great Oak, her blue eyes gleaming 
and the moonlight turning her blue-gray 
fur to silver. “Then it’s agreed,” she 


meowed. “WindClan and ThunderClan 
will cooperate to tackle the stoats, and 
will call on RiverClan and ShadowClan 
if the need arises.” 

No cat raised a voice in protest, 
though Crowfeather noticed that 
Lionblaze and Berrynose, who had 
started the argument, still looked 
unhappy. 

“The Gathering is at an end,” 
Bramblestar announced. 

The four leaders leaped down from 
the Great Oak. While Mistystar and 
Blackstar gathered their warriors 
together for the journey home, Onestar 
and Bramblestar held back, deep in 
conversation, and signaled to their cats 
to go ahead without them. 


Jumping down from the tree-bridge, 
Crowfeather spotted Breezepelt and 
Heathertail just ahead of him, padding 
along the shore of the lake. He picked up 
his pace and caught up with them, 
inwardly flinching a little at the wary 
look Breezepelt turned on him. But if 
Crowfeather had learned anything, it 
was that he couldn’t let moments like 
this stop him from being a father to 
Breezepelt. 

“Breezepelt,” he began, “I was 
really impressed by what you said back 
there.” 

For a moment, Breezepelt looked 
surprised. “Well,” he said. “I wouldn’t 
have said it if I didn’t mean it.” 

“I don’t doubt you,” Crowfeather 


continued, realizing with a jolt of 
surprise that what he said was true. 
“Whatever you need . . . you have my 
support.” 

Breezepelt hesitated for a moment, 
and  Crowfeather realized that 
Heathertail had dropped back, leaving 
him alone with his son. He felt suddenly 
as exposed and vulnerable as if an eagle 
were hovering over him on the open 
moor. 

Breezepelt looked awkwardly down 
at his paws. He looks just as 
uncomfortable as I am, Crowfeather 
thought. 

“I trained with the Dark Forest to 
become a stronger warrior,” Breezepelt 
explained at last. “I needed some cat to 


believe in me, and the Dark Forest cats 
did—or at least they seemed to. But I 
wasn’t fighting against the Clans. Pl 
always be a WindClan cat first. This 
battle with the stoats is my chance to 
prove myself,” he finished resolutely. 

Listening to him, Crowfeather 
remembered the terrible moment in the 
battle when Breezepelt had attacked 
Lionblaze. That hadn’t been the action of 
a traitor, he realized now, but of a cat 
driven to desperation by his sense of 
failure and isolation. 

Now, looking at  Breezepelt’s 
determined face, Crowfeather felt a 
wave of tenderness wash over him. He 
could see in his son something of the 
innocent kit—so eager for new 


challenges and adventures—that 
Nightcloud had first presented to him, 
before it had all gone wrong. 

“Like I said, P11 do whatever I can 
to help,” he assured Breezepelt. His 
voice was hoarse with the strangeness of 
the words and his anxiety that his son 
wouldn’t accept what he was offering. “I 
know I haven’t always been the father 
you deserve,” he added, “but now I want 
to change that.” 

Breezepelt said nothing. He only 
ducked his head awkwardly, but the 
warmth in his eyes told Crowfeather all 
he needed to know. 

As he padded along beside his son, 
their pelts brushing, Crowfeather felt an 
answering warmth welling up inside 


him. 
This is what it must feel like to be a 
real father, he thought. 





CHAPTER 29 
» 


~v 


The day after the Gathering dawned 
damp and cloudy, and there was a tang 
ofrain in the wind that blew from the top 
of the moor. By now most of the snow 
had disappeared, except for drifts in 
sheltered hollows, but frost furred the 
tough moorland grass, and every pool 
was rimmed with ice. 

My paws are cold enough to fall off, 
Crowfeather thought. 

He shivered as he headed toward the 
ThunderClan border along with Onestar 
and a chosen group of WindClan 
warriors. Harespring padded along at 


his leader’s shoulder, while Nightcloud 
and Breezepelt followed closely behind. 
Heathertail was bringing up the rear. 

After the Gathering had ended, 
Onestar and Bramblestar had remained 
behind and talked. They’d decided that 
they would meet at the border to discuss 
how their Clans would work together to 
defeat the stoats. Crowfeather could only 
hope that this time they would come up 
with a plan that would succeed. 

As they left the moor behind and 
entered the strip of woodland beside the 
stream, Crowfeather became aware of a 
strong ThunderClan scent just ahead. 
Drawing closer to the border, he spotted 
a large group of the ThunderClan cats 
assembled on the opposite bank; 


Bramblestar and Squirrelflight stood in 
the center, with Jayfeather on one side of 
them and Lionblaze on the other. 

Crowfeather couldn’t help noticing 
how many of the ThunderClan warriors 
looked wary and distrustful, muttering to 
one another as the WindClan cats 
padded up. His pelt prickled with 
apprehension at the sight of them. 

How will we unite to fight the stoats 
if we can t get along among ourselves? 

In particular, Crowfeather noticed 
that Lionblaze and Breezepelt were 
glaring at each other. 

However, Bramblestar dipped his 
head politely to Onestar as the two 
leaders faced each other across the 
stream. “Greetings, Onestar,” he 


meowed. 

Equally polite, Onestar returned the 
greeting, and Crowfeather breathed a 
sigh of relief. Clearly, no cat was going 
to mention Bramblestar’s lack of 
experience or Onestar’s failure to 
control the stoats on his own. 

“So,” Bramblestar began, “what do 
you suggest, Onestar?”’ 

“We’ve tried going down the tunnels 
to fight the stoats,” Onestar replied, “and 
it was a disaster. The stoats know the 
tunnels better than we do, and there are 
too many places for them to hide. There 
are more of them, and they’re smaller 
than us, so they fight better in tight 
corners. Somehow we have to get them 
out into the open.” 


Bramblestar looked thoughtful. “Of 
course, ThunderClan has some 
experience with underground fighting... 
,” he mused. 

Crowfeather slid out his claws. 
Seasons ago, when Firestar was still 
ThunderClan leader, WindClan had 
attacked ThunderClan in the tunnels and 
been soundly defeated. Later he had 
learned that Hollyleaf, who had once 
lived down there, had trained her Clan 
in special fighting techniques. 

Is Bramblestar genuinely offering 
to use their special skills, he wondered, 
or is he finding another, more subtle 
way to insult Onestar? Not that 
Onestar doesnt have it coming, he 
added wryly to himself, remembering 


Onestar’s scathing attack on Bramblestar 
in the WindClan camp. 

But Onestar seemed unaware of any 
possible insult, or perhaps he’d realized 
he couldn’t afford to be insulted. “I still 
think we need to get them out,” he 
mewed. “But whatever we decide, we 
will have to kill a good number to have 
any real chance of getting rid of them.” 

Crowfeather saw Rosepetal and 
Mousewhisker of ThunderClan 
exchanging a scornful look. “I can’t 
imagine how the WindClan warriors 
were defeated by animals that are so 
much smaller than them,” Rosepetal 
murmured. 

“Yeah, they’re tiny,” Mousewhisker 
agreed. 


Squirrelflight’s head  swiveled 
around to glare at her Clanmates. “Hold 
your tongues!” she snapped. 

“You've obviously never fought with 
them,” Furzepelt mewed disdainfully. 
“Theyre fierce, their teeth are sharp, 
and they attack when you're not 
expecting them.” 

“And you should see them leaping 
and twisting in the air,” Larkwing added. 
“Does ThunderClan have any better 
battle moves? I don’t think so.” 

Crowfeather saw several of the 
younger ThunderClan warriors glancing 
at one another, their eyes stretched wide 
with alarm, though the more experienced 
warriors looked disbelieving. 

“I’m sure they must have felt like a 


pack of ravenous beasts,” Thornclaw 
meowed with a lofty air. 

“Our warriors are right,” Harespring 
told him. “Of course I’ve seen stoats 
before—we all have—but not in a large 
pack like this. These snow-white ones 
are ferocious. We need to take them 
seriously.” 

“Of course we do.” Bramblestar 
took control again. “So, let’s hear some 
ideas of how to fight the stoats without 
attacking in the tunnels and putting 
ourselves at a disadvantage.” 

“I think we should block up the 
tunnels as we did before,” Crowfeather 
suggested, giving voice to an idea he’d 
been mulling over since the Gathering, 
“and then send in a force of cats to drive 


the stoats out to one place, where the 
rest of us will be waiting.” 

“That could work,” Heathertail 
agreed. “We’ll have to be sure we cover 
all the tunnels.” 

“Yes,” Lionblaze put in, “and make 
sure the stoats don’t retreat the other 
way and come out on ThunderClan 
territory. I?ll work best if we can keep 
them on the WindClan side of the 
underground river.” 

Standing beside Lionblaze, his mate, 
Cinderheart, twitched her ears in 
amusement, but Crowfeather saw the 
golden tabby tom look suddenly 
sheepish, while Heathertail briefly 
averted her gaze. He knew Heathertail 
was familiar with the tunnels between 


the territories—he’d always wondered 
if she’d explored them alone, or with the 
ThunderClan cat. 

Beside him, Crowfeather sensed 
Breezepelt bristling. Obviously, he had 
drawn the same conclusion. 

Why cant he let it go? Crowfeather 
wondered. Heathertails heart is 
clearly with Breezepelt now, but he still 
holds on to every scrap of his hostility 
to Lionblaze. 

“Pve got a better idea.” Breezepelt 
spoke loudly, and  Crowfeather 
suspected he wanted to distract 
Heathertail’s attention from the golden 
ThunderClan warrior. He didn’t even 
look at Lionblaze, as if his half brother 
weren't there at all. “Instead of 


endangering several cats by trying to 
drive the stoats out of the tunnels—and 
maybe driving them over to ThunderClan 
—why not send in one cat to attack a 
stoat and draw the others out?” 

Lionblaze huffed out his breath. “Are 
you suggesting we put a lone cat into 
danger?” he meowed to Breezepelt. “Or 
are you volunteering to go confront the 
stoats yourself?” 

Breezepelt turned his head to stare at 
him. “Of course I’m volunteering,” he 
responded instantly. “Mouse-brain,” he 
added under his breath, only loud enough 
for Crowfeather and perhaps Nightcloud 
to hear. 

Crowfeather clamped his jaws shut, 
not allowing himself to intervene. He 


felt intensely proud of Breezepelt, but 
the thought of his son venturing alone 
into the stoat-infested tunnels made 
every hair on his pelt bristle with fear. 

Then he remembered how he had 
once thought that a breeze was a kind of 
wind, driving back the engulfing water 
in Kestrelflight’s vision. Perhaps 
Breezepelt was the cat destined to take 
this risk and save his Clan. 

“Are you sure?” Onestar asked 
Breezepelt. 

Breezepelt nodded. “I promised at 
the Gathering that I would prove myself 
a loyal warrior,” he declared. “Now I’m 
fulfilling that promise.” 

Crowfeather’s gaze swept over the 
assembled cats as Breezepelt made his 


courageous offer, noticing a glint of 
approval in Onestar’s eyes. Most of the 
others seemed impressed, too. But when 
he glanced hopefully at Lionblaze, he 
saw that his ThunderClan son’s face was 
set in cold dislike. Crowfeather felt that 
look like a claw slicing through his 
heart. Clearly, the offer wasn’t enough 
for Lionblaze to forgive Breezepelt for 
trying to kill him. 

The need to show his support for 
Breezepelt flooded over Crowfeather. 
He wanted to be the father to him that he 
always should have been. And now he 
knew how to do it, and at the same time 
show that he put his Clan’s needs above 
his own. 

It will be dangerous, but if 


Breezepelt can take the risk, then so 
can I. 

“PIL go as well,” he meowed, 
padding up to his son’s side. 

A murmur of surprise came from his 
Clanmates. “It’s not necessary,” 
Harespring told him. 

“I want to support my son, 
Crowfeather responded, catching a look 
of surprise on Lionblaze’s face, and 
Jayfeather’s. Did I choose the right 
words there? he asked himself, briefly 
anxious. Will they think I dont accept 
them as my sons? Then he dismissed the 
worry. This wasn’t the right time. 
Glancing at Onestar, he added, “I 
suppose I need to prove my loyalty to 
WindClan, too.” 


99 


Onestar clearly shared his Clan’s 
surprise, but something in his gaze told 
Crowfeather that he was impressed, too. 
“I think we should combine the plans,” 
he suggested to Bramblestar. “We’ll 
block every tunnel that we can, and 
leave just one entrance open, on the 
WindClan side.” 

Bramblestar nodded agreement. 
“Then Breezepelt and Crowfeather will 
try to infuriate the stoats—” 

“They should find that really easy,” 
Jayfeather put in. 

His Clan leader gave him a stare 
from narrowed eyes. “Thank you, 
Jayfeather,” he mewed, an irritated edge 
to his voice. “As I was saying,” he 
continued, “Crowfeather and Breezepelt 


will infuriate the stoats enough to draw 
them out of the tunnels, where the 
warriors will be waiting for them.” 

“Tt should work well.” Harespring, 
who had been sitting at the very edge of 
the stream near his Clan leader, sprang 
to his paws. “Ill lead the patrol to find 
the tunnels and block them off, if 
Lionblaze and Heathertail will help.” 

“Of course,” Heathertail mewed, and 
Larkwing added quickly, “Pd like to 
help, too.” 

Birchfall stepped forward from the 
ThunderClan group across the stream, 
with Mousewhisker at his side. “We’ll 
organize the fighters to be ready to 
spring out and attack the stoats.” 

“We'll be waiting for them,” 


Blossomfall meowed, pushing forward 
with Thornclaw hard on her paws. 

“And me!” Whiskernose called from 
the WindClan side. Onestar shook his 
head at the light brown elder, but 
Whiskernose ignored him. 

Crowfeather noticed that all the 
volunteers had trained with the Dark 
Forest cats; they were all cats who had 
been doubted and feared and distrusted 
by their Clanmates, yet here they were, 
eager to prove themselves loyal 
warriors of their Clans at last. 

Glancing around, he saw that other 
cats had realized it too: Murmurs of 
praise rose from them, and they 
exchanged glances of approval. 

Lets hope their lives will be easier 


from now on, Crowfeather thought. 





CHAPTER 30 
+ 


~v 


Crowfeather stood at the tunnel 
entrance where—moons ago, it seemed 
—Hootpaw had first glimpsed the white 
stoat. The sky was scarlet over the moor, 
the cats’ long shadows stretching out 
behind them as the sun went down. It 
was the day after the meeting with 
Bramblestar and the ThunderClan 
warriors at the stream, and everything 
was ready for the final attack on the 
stoats. 

The creatures seemed to be more 
active at night, and so during the day, 
while they slept, the cats had filled in as 


many unblocked tunnels as they could 
find. Now only this one entrance 
remained. Crowfeather raised one paw 
to lick his pad where it still stung from 
maneuvering stones and brush. His fur 
itched with dust, but he felt warm with 
satisfaction from ears to tail-tip. 

The stoats should be waking up by 
now. I hope they’re ready to be lured 
out. 

Breezepelt padded up while 
Crowfeather was still licking his sore 
pads. “Ready?” he asked. 

Crowfeather nodded, glancing up at 
his son. He was surprised to see that 
Breezepelt wore an expression of 
determination and held his head high. / 
know he’s afraid of the tunnels, 


Crowfeather thought, but he’s not 
showing the slightest sign of fear now. 

Breezepelt returned Crowfeather’s 
nod, his gaze softening a little. 

“We can do _ this,” Crowfeather 
mewed. “For WindClan.” 

“We can,” Breezepelt agreed. “I’m 
ready.” 

His voice was steady and resolute. 
Crowfeather couldn’t help thinking of 
the danger ahead. It didn’t matter so 
much for him, but Breezepelt had his 
whole future to lose if he was killed or 
injured: his place in the Clan; the 
opportunity to take a mate, have kits, and 
raise them as warriors. Hes willing to 
risk all that to prove his loyalty, 
Crowfeather reflected, even more 


impressed by his son’s courage. J may 
have been lacking as a father, but 
Breezepelt still turned out to be a 
worthy warrior. 

Crowfeather glanced around at the 
moorland landscape that surrounded 
him. He knew that behind the rocks and 
underneath the gorse bushes, warriors of 
ThunderClan and WindClan were hiding, 
waiting to leap out into battle. There 
was a Strong scent of cat, but he couldn’t 
see any of them, not even a single 
whisker or the tip of a tail. 

The stoats will get the shock of 
their lives! 

But with that realization Crowfeather 
accepted that he had to contain himself. 
He couldn’t let his longing for revenge 


get the better of him. Excitement and 
confidence were bubbling up inside him 
like a spring of fresh water, but he knew 
that he needed intelligence, too, and a 
cool head. 

Then Heathertail emerged from 
behind a boulder halfway up the slope 
and padded down to join Crowfeather 
and Breezepelt. “You’re sure you know 
what to do?” she asked. 

Like we havent gone over it so 
many times! Crowfeather thought, but he 
didn’t speak the thought aloud. He was 
well aware that Heathertail wasn’t 
really asking that question; what she 
wanted to know was whether Breezepelt 
was sure he wanted to go through with 
this. 


She knows hes a capable warrior, 
but she wants to be his mate. Of course 
she 5 worried. 

“Yes, we'll be fine,” Breezepelt 
replied. 

“You've been in there before, so you 
should remember what it’s like,” 
Heathertail continued. “There’s a clear 
path in a huge circle to take you deep 
into the tunnels and back out here. For 
StarClan’s sake, don’t head off down 
any side passages.” 

“We'll be careful,’ Breezepelt 
promised her. 

Crowfeather wasn’t sure that 
“careful” was the word he would have 
chosen. He and Breezepelt would be 
running the path as fast as they could, 


swiping and yowling at stoats to attract 
their attention and make them give chase. 

I hope we dont get caught and find 
ourselves surrounded by stoats. It 
would be easy enough to get the 
creatures’ attention, and easier still to 
get trapped in the tunnels, outnumbered 
in the dark. J know how that feels, and I 
don t want to feel it again—but thats in 
the paws of StarClan. 

Breezepelt and Heathertail had 
leaned closer together, speaking softly to 
each other, when Onestar padded up. 
Crowfeather suppressed a mrrow of 
amusement when he saw the two young 
cats guiltily jump apart. 

“Its time,” Onestar declared; if he 
had noticed anything, he made no 


comment. “Are you ready?” 

Crowfeather nodded; Breezepelt 
stood up a little straighter. 

“Then may StarClan light your path,” 
the Clan leader meowed. “Go!” 

Crowfeather let Breezepelt take the 
lead as the two toms raced into the 
tunnels. Light from the entrance quickly 
died away behind them, though the 
passage was dimly lit through chinks in 
the roof. 

At first the only sign of the stoats 
was the smell. Crowfeather’s nose 
wrinkled at their scent and the reek of 
their rotting prey. Then a stronger, 
fresher scent flooded over him, and he 
realized that the passage opened up at 
one side into a den. He could make out 


several white bodies crowded together. 

Without hesitation Breezepelt darted 
in among them and slashed his claws 
across the nearest stoat’s face before 
darting out again and running on. “Take 
that, mange-pelt! he yowled. The 
injured stoat let out a screech of pain, 
and a furious chittering rose from its 
denmates. 

As Crowfeather ran past the den, 
hard on Breezepelt’s paws, he heard the 
stoats scrambling after him, their tiny 
claws scratching on the floor of the 
passage, their scent like a foggy cloud 
around him. Alarmed by how close they 
were, he bunched and stretched his 
muscles in an effort to run even faster. 

We must have had bees in our 


brains to volunteer for this! 

As he and Breezepelt raced onward, 
attacking stoats in every den they passed, 
Crowfeather realized that more and 
more of the stoats were following them. 
A hasty glance over his shoulder showed 
them pouring down the passage like a 
vast white wave ready to engulf them. 

How much farther? he asked himself 
desperately. We must be close to the 
way out by now! 

Reaching what Crowfeather thought 
must be the last den, Breezepelt once 
more leaped into the attack. But this time 
the stoats in the den seemed more alert, 
maybe warned by the sound and scent of 
their approaching denmates. The leading 
stoat sprang forward beneath 


Breezepelt’s outstretched paws and 
fastened its fangs into his throat. 

Breezepelt let out a yowl of shock 
and fear. A heartbeat later the white 
creatures were swarming around him; he 
almost looked as if he were sinking into 
a snowdrift, except this wasn’t snow: It 
was a heap of squirming bodies, with 
claws and teeth bared to tear and bite. 

Crowfeather didn’t take time to 
think. He waded into the swarm of 
stoats, lashing out with his claws to 
thrust the creatures aside on his way to 
his son. When he reached Breezepelt, he 
swiped with all his strength at the stoat 
that still clung to him, breaking its grip 
and knocking it back against the den 
wall. 


“Run—now!” he screeched to 
Breezepelt. 

Breezepelt turned and fled down the 
passage; Crowfeather barreled after him, 
hearing the whole crowd of stoats on his 
hind paws. Moments later the dim light 
of the tunnel grew brighter, and 
Crowfeather spotted the ragged circle of 
the tunnel entrance a few fox-lengths 
ahead. 

Breezepelt broke out into the open, 
his voice raised in a triumphant yowl, 
and Crowfeather followed him. The 
stoats poured out behind them, an 
unstoppable wave. 

Ahead of them, cats rose up from the 
seemingly empty hillside. WindClan and 
ThunderClan together charged down the 


slope into the attack. Their eyes gleamed 
in the last of the daylight, and their 
voices were raised as one in a 
challenging caterwaul. 

Crowfeather kept on running until he 
and Breezepelt were well away from the 
tunnel, then gave his son a hard shove 
with one shoulder into the shelter of a 
jutting rock. 

“Catch your breath,” he panted. 

Breezepelt nodded, his breath 
coming in harsh gasps as if he couldn’t 
manage to speak. “Thanks, 
Crowfeather,” he rasped eventually. “I 
can’t believe how strong you were, 
attacking that last stoat!” 

Crowfeather let out a snort. “Nor can 
I. I have no idea where that came from. 


Maybe it was just seeing my kit 
attacked!” 

Breezepelt’s tail curled up with 
amusement, but there was unexpected 
warmth in his gaze. “If you hadn’t been 
there,” he mewed, “I’m not sure what 
would have happened. But I doubt I’d be 
here to tell the story.” 

“Are you okay?” Crowfeather asked. 
Breezepelt’s throat was bleeding, but not 
too badly; it looked as if the stoat’s fangs 
hadn’t sunk in very deep. 

“Fine,” Breezepelt replied. “You?” 

Crowfeather nodded. “Let’s go and 
kill some stoats!”’ 

Breezepelt instantly leaped into the 
battle, but Crowfeather paused a moment 
to take in what was happening. The open 


ground between the gorse-covered 
hillside and the tunnel entrances in the 
steep bank was covered by writhing 
bodies: cats and stoats locked together 
in combat. Harespring and Thornclaw 
had taken up their position in front of the 
only open entrance to make sure that the 
stoats couldn’t flee back into safety. 
Yowls and shrieks split the air, and the 
scents of cats and stoats were already 
mingling with the tang of blood. 

Our blood as well as the stoats’, he 
realized, fury welling up inside him. 

For a heartbeat his anger blinded 
him, so he didn’t notice that one stoat 
had broken away from the main battle 
and charged at him, until it was almost 
on top of him. As it sprang, he lashed out 


at it, scoring his claws down its side. 
The stoat scrabbled away, whimpering. 
Then fighting surged all around him, and 
it was all he could do to stay on his 
paws. 

The cats were much larger than the 
stoats, but even the two Clans together 
were still vastly outnumbered. The 
stoats were sharp-toothed, and very fast- 
moving; Crowfeather saw many of them 
leap into the air unexpectedly, to land on 
their enemies’ backs and tear at their 
spines and shoulders. He spotted 
Furzepelt with a stoat clinging to her 
shoulders; she rolled over in a desperate 
attempt to get rid of it, smothering it 
under her weight. Next to her 
Mousewhisker slashed his claws down 


the side of a stoat that had pushed 
Emberfoot down; the gray tom 
scrambled to his paws, and the two cats 
together drove the stoat back into the 
press of its denmates. 

Heading for where the fighting was 
thickest, Crowfeather raked his claws 
across the faces of stoats that got in his 
way. Already it was hard to move 
because of the bodies of stoats lying 
underpaw, yet he could see that many of 
the cats had serious injuries. He spotted 
Birchfall, who had blood running down 
his muzzle from a wounded ear, and 
Larkwing had a long gash down one 
side. Even though they were so badly 
injured, they were still standing, still 
moving forward, not letting their wounds 


slow them down. 

Its the cats who trained with the 
Dark Forest who are fighting hardest, 
Crowfeather realized. They’re throwing 
themselves into the worst of the battle. 

As he looked around, Crowfeather’s 
heart swelled with pride as he saw his 
Clanmates, who had suffered so much 
suspicion after the mistake they’d made, 
showing their loyalty by risking their 
lives for their Clan. At the same time, 
rage against the stoats gave him new 
strength and energy. 

A stoat rushed at him, rearing up to 
attack him with both forepaws. 
Crowfeather ducked underneath its 
forelegs, and as the stoat landed, he spun 
around to fasten his teeth in its throat. He 


pinned it to the ground, his paws 
gripping it determinedly until he felt a 
warm rush of blood; the stoat went limp 
and he tossed it aside. Looking up, he 
found himself staring into the face of 
Nightcloud. 

“Neat kill,” she commented. “Leave 
some for the rest of us, won’t you?” 

As she spoke, a stoat dived for her, 
leaping up to land on her back. But 
before it could get a firm grip on her, 
Crowfeather lashed out with one 
forepaw, knocking it to the ground. 
Nightcloud sank her claws into its throat; 
the stoat twitched and lay still. She gave 
Crowfeather a nod of gratitude before 
turning back to the battle. 

Crowfeather and Nightcloud fought 


together, standing tail to tail as they 
turned in a circle, paws striking out at 
the endless surge of stoats. As soon as 
they killed or injured one, another would 
take its place. The white bodies, the 
small, malignant eyes and snarling fangs, 
seemed to Crowfeather like something 
out of a nightmare. He could only go on 
struggling, grateful for Nightcloud’s 
steady presence beside him. 

Then pain exploded in 
Crowfeather’s shoulder. He turned his 
head to see a stoat gripping him with its 
claws, while a splash of drool on his 
muzzle warned him it was going for his 
throat. Crowfeather couldn’t shake it off, 
he dropped to the ground, buying time, 
but the pressing weight of the frenzied 


creature made him feel there was no 
escape. The angle of their bodies meant 
that he couldn’t batter at it with his hind 
legs. StarClan, help me! he prayed. 

The stoat abruptly vanished. 
Crowfeather looked up to see 
Nightcloud holding it by the scruff, 
shaking it vigorously, then tossing it 
away into the crowd. 

“Thanks,” Crowfeather gasped, 
scrambling to his paws. 

“Anytime,” Nightcloud responded. 

They turned as one to attack two 
other stoats that dived in from opposite 
directions. Even while his body 
remembered his battle moves, 
Crowfeather could reflect on how well 
he and Nightcloud fought together, how 


well they knew each other. 

We may not be in love, but we make 
a fierce team on the battlefield. I know 
she'll fight ferociously for me, and for 
all her Clanmates. 

Crowfeather’s reflections were 
interrupted by a screech of pain. 
Glancing over his shoulder he saw 
Lionblaze fall, the golden tabby warrior 
overwhelmed beneath a swarm of stoats. 
Crowfeather leaped toward him, only to 
run into what felt like a solid wall of 
wiry white bodies. He tried to fight his 
way through, but too many of them 
surrounded him. A throb of terror for his 
ThunderClan son pulsed through 
Crowfeather; he  couldn’t reach 
Lionblaze to help. 


He was thrusting vainly against the 
tide, knowing he would be too late, 
when Breezepelt leaped into the battle, 
seeming to come from nowhere. 
Crowfeather could see that he was 
bleeding from several wounds, but they 
hadn’t sapped his energy. He grabbed 
two of the stoats on top of Lionblaze, 
shaking them and ripping out their 
throats. 

Lionblaze managed to stumble to his 
paws. He and Breezepelt stared at each 
other uncomfortably for a moment, then 
turned away, back to the battle. 

Crowfeather couldn’t believe what 
had just happened. “Did you see our 
son?” he breathed out. 

Nightcloud’s response was a rough 


shove. “Don’t stand there gaping, 
mouse-brain!” But Crowfeather could 
see that her eyes were warm with pride. 

Looking around for his next 
opponent, Crowfeather realized that the 
war was all but over by now. The stretch 
of ground between the gorse bushes and 
the tunnels was strewn with the bodies 
of stoats. The last few were fleeing, 
bleeding and whimpering with fear. 

In the middle of the devastation, 
Onestar and Bramblestar padded up to 
each other, each of them dipping his 
head in gratitude and respect to the other. 

“Cats of |= ThunderClan and 
WindClan!” Onestar called out. “You 
have fought well today. The battle is 


99 


won. 


“And the stoats are gone for good, I 
hope,” Bramblestar added. 

Meanwhile Kestrelflight, Leafpool, 
and Jayfeather, who had waited out the 
battle among the gorse bushes, began to 
move among the injured cats, examining 
their wounds and applying treatment 
with the herbs they had brought. 

Crowfeather looked around for 
Breezepelt and spotted him standing a 
couple of fox-lengths away, licking a 
wound on his shoulder. Before 
Crowfeather could join him, he saw 
Lionblaze limping toward him 
Crowfeather held back while his two 
sons confronted each other. 

“Thank you for helping me,” 
Lionblaze began, halting a pace or two 


in front of Breezepelt. His gaze and his 
tone were wary. “But why did you? You 
said I should never have been born. You 
wanted me dead.” 

Breezepelt looked up at him, equally 
awkward. His eyes were guilty as he 
replied. “I should never have listened to 
the Dark Forest cats,” he mewed stiffly. 
“Youre a Clan cat, and my loyalty 
should be to the Clans.” 

Crowfeather realized that this was as 
close as Breezepelt was ever going to 
get to an apology for attacking Lionblaze 
during the Great Battle. He felt his 
muscles tense as he waited for 
Lionblaze’s response, aware for the first 
time of how much he wanted his two 
sons to get along. Come on, he urged 


Lionblaze silently. Accept his apology! 

Clearly, Lionblaze knew how hard it 
was for Breezepelt to say even so much. 
“You fought well,” he meowed 
reluctantly. “I’m glad we were on the 
same side this time.” 

The two toms stared at each other 
and exchanged an awkward, jerky nod 
before each of them quickly turned back 
to his own Clan. 

Crowfeather felt an unexpected surge 
of affection for Breezepelt. He was such 
a surly, difficult furball sometimes, but 
he was trying so hard to redeem himself. 
If Breezepelt could do it, so could he. / 
can tell my son how I feel about him. 

Crowfeather headed toward his son, 
who turned to gaze at him. Breezepelt 


opened his jaws, clearly about to speak, 
but before he could utter a word, his legs 
folded under him and he collapsed 
limply to the ground. 

Crowfeather darted to Breezepelt’s 
side. He saw blood pooling beneath him, 
and, gently turning him over, saw a nasty 
bite on his belly, as if the stoat had torn 
his flesh away. The wound had been 
concealed when Breezepelt was 
standing upright. Blood trickled through 
his matted fur. Crowfeather lost his 
breath as he realized how serious this 
could be. 

“Help!” Crowfeather forced air into 
his lungs again and yowled. 
“Kestrelflight, over here!” 

But it was Nightcloud who arrived 


first, crouching beside her son’s body 
and calling his name while she 
frantically licked his ears. Breezepelt 
didn’t respond. 

Crowfeather stared down at his son, 
digging his claws into the ground. You 
can t die now, he thought helplessly. Oh, 
StarClan, no—not when we’re starting 
to understand each other at last! 








CHAPTER 31 
» 


~v 


Night had fallen by the time 
Crowfeather and Nightcloud reached the 
WindClan camp, carrying Breezepelt’s 
unconscious body between them. 
Crowfeather might almost have thought 
that his son was dead, except for the 
faint rise and fall of his chest and the 
blood that was still trickling from his 
belly wound and many others. 
Kestrelflight had already made a nest 
for Breezepelt in the medicine-cat den, 
and prepared a thick wad of cobwebs to 
begin staunching the flow of blood. 
Crowfeather and Nightcloud hovered 


anxiously at the entrance to the den. 

Several of the other WindClan 
warriors were resting close by; some of 
them licked their wounds, while others 
lay stretched out with their eyes closed. 
None of them looked as badly injured as 
Breezepelt. 

As Kestrelflight began to lick the dirt 
from Breezepelt’s lacerated body, the 
unconscious cat let out a whine of pain. 
Crowfeather and Nightcloud exchanged 
an anxious glance, then crowded into the 
den to get closer to their son’s nest. 

Kestrelflight looked up, a harassed 
expression in his eyes. “You'll have to 
wait outside,” he mewed. “I can’t treat 
Breezepelt if Pm continually tripping 
over the two of you.” 


Crowfeather began to retreat, but for 
a moment Nightcloud stood frozen, 
staring at her unconscious son. 
Crowfeather nudged her gently. “Come 
on,” he murmured. “Let Kestrelflight do 
his job.” After a heartbeat Nightcloud 
followed him out, though they both still 
watched from the entrance to the den. 

Kestrelflights not usually so 
snappy, Crowfeather thought. That must 
mean hes really worried about 
Breezepelt. He felt as if a heavy, rotting 
lump of crow-food had lodged in his 
belly. What if I’ve made peace with 
Breezepelt just in time to lose him? 

Crowfeather remembered a time 
when Breezepelt was still in the nursery. 
There had been an outbreak of 


whitecough in the WindClan camp, and 
Breezekit’s had turned into the deadly 
greencough. Crowfeather had spent each 
night barely sleeping, wrapped around 
the tiny kit as though his love and 
attention could cure his son. When 
Breezekit woke up one morning with the 
cough almost gone, Crowfeather’s relief 
had been so intense that he couldn’t 
remember having felt anything like it 
since. 

I shouldnt have forgotten that, he 
thought. 7 was a good father to him 
once. I shouldn't have doubted myself 
so much. 

While Crowfeather and Nightcloud 
waited, Heathertail limped up to stand 
beside them. “How is Breezepelt?” she 


asked, fixing Crowfeather with a 
wotried gaze. 

Crowfeather simply shook his head, 
while Nightcloud replied, “Not good.” 

Heathertail’s claws worked for a 
moment in the ground, her head and tail 
drooping. Crowfeather caught a 
questioning look from Nightcloud, and 
responded with a nod. Yes, this will be 
the mother of our son kits. Breezepelt 
was lucky, he reflected, to have such a 
strong warrior in his life, so loyal to him 
and to their Clan. 

Nightcloud brushed her tail down 
Heathertail’s side. “Kestrelflight is 
doing everything he can,” she mewed. 
“Now it’s in the paws of StarClan.” 

Heathertail nodded, then took a deep 


breath and stood quietly waiting beside 
her Clanmates. 

Just as Crowfeather was beginning 
to feel that he couldn’t hold on to his 
patience for another heartbeat, 
Kestrelflight rose and came out of the 
den. “Breezepelt is seriously injured,” 
he began. 

Tell us something we dont know, 
Crowfeather thought irritably. 

“But will he be all right?” 
Nightcloud asked. 

After a long moment, Kestrelflight 
nodded. “Provided he gets plenty of rest, 
he should get better.” 

Nightcloud let out a long sigh of 
relief. “Thank StarClan!” 

“If you want,” the medicine cat 


continued, “one of you can spend the 
night with him so you'll be there when 
he regains consciousness. That way I can 
see to treating the other injured cats.” 

Crowfeather glanced at Nightcloud; 
he would be happy to stay with their son, 
but Breezepelt would probably rather 
see Nightcloud when he woke. 

But before either of them could 
speak, Heathertail stepped forward 
eagerly. “Ill stay.” Then she too glanced 
at Nightcloud, ducking her head in 
embarrassment. “If that’s okay with you, 
of course,” she added. 

Crowfeather expected Nightcloud to 
object, knowing how possessive and 
protective of Breezepelt she had always 
been. At first she was clearly fighting 


with the urge to admonish Heathertail, 
her whiskers twitching irritably, but then 
she stepped back a pace with a glance at 
Crowfeather. He gave her a nod of 
approval, knowing how hard it would be 
for her to release her hold on 
Breezepelt. 

Finally, Nightcloud let out a pleased 
purr and gestured with her tail for 
Heathertail to enter the den. While 
Heathertail padded inside, the black she- 
cat and Crowfeather waited for 
Kestrelflight to check their wounds and 
treat them with chervil to prevent 
infection. 

“You should be fine,” the medicine 
cat meowed. “Go get some rest, and P11 
examine you again in the morning.” 


Crowfeather was so exhausted that 
he didn’t put up any kind of fight. He 
went directly to the warriors’ den, and 
not even the pain of his injuries or his 
worry about Breezepelt could keep him 
awake. He fell asleep before his eyes 
even closed. 

It felt as if only moments had passed 
before a paw prodded him on his 
shoulder, rousing him at last. He opened 
his eyes to see the sun rising above the 
moor and Nightcloud standing over him. 

“What are you, a dormouse?” she 
asked. “Come see how Breezepelt is 
getting along.” 

Crowfeather willingly followed her 
to the medicine-cat den, trying to ignore 
the uncomfortable fluttering in his belly 


when he wondered what he would find 
there. He felt shaky with relief when he 
heard Breezepelt’s mew as they 
approached the den, sounding strong and 
free from pain. 

Stepping inside the den at 
Nightcloud’s side, Crowfeather saw that 
Kestrelflight wasn’t there. Breezepelt 
was sitting up in his nest, with 
Heathertail crouched beside him. The 
two young cats were gazing into each 
other’s eyes; Crowfeather could sense 
the love between them. 

He cleared his throat, and at the 
sound Breezepelt’s head swiveled 
toward the entrance, while Heathertail 
eased back a little so she wasn’t so 
close to him. 


“Greetings,” Nightcloud meowed. 
“How are you feeling, Breezepelt?” 

“Like every stoat on the territory has 
taken a bite out of me,” Breezepelt 
replied wryly. “But Pm going to be 
fine.” 

“A group of WindClan and 
ThunderClan cats are going to go through 
the tunnels and make sure the stoats are 
really gone,” Nightcloud went on. “If 
you want to go, Heathertail, I'll stay 
with Breezepelt.” 

“Oh, I’m happy to stay if Harespring 
wants you to go,” Heathertail responded 
eagerly. 

I’m sure you are, Crowfeather 
thought, exchanging an amused glance 
with Nightcloud. The two young cats 


were gazing into each other’s eyes again, 
and Nightcloud leaned over to murmur 
into Crowfeather’s ear. 

“I think the Clan will be welcoming 
new kits before long.” 


The next morning, Crowfeather 
padded through the dim tunnels, part of a 
patrol that included Nightcloud, 
Lionblaze, and  Cloudtail, with 
Harespring in the lead. His nose 
wrinkled at the smell of stoat. 

I’m going to vomit if I cant get 
away from that stink, he thought. Its 
sinking into my fur... I'll be tasting it 
for moons! If I never see another stoat, 
it will be too soon. 

The patrols found plenty of evidence 


that the stoats had been there: holes 
filled with rotting prey and dens where 
nests had been scratched together from 
scraps of grass and bracken. But there 
was no sign that any of the stoats had 
returned. 

All the while he was patrolling, 
Crowfeather was acutely conscious that 
Lionblaze was part of the group. He kept 
an eye on him, and started forward a 
couple of times before he eventually 
braced himself and managed to 
maneuver to walk beside him. 

“There’s something I want to say to 
you,” he told the ThunderClan cat. 

Lionblaze tilted his head to one side, 
giving Crowfeather a slightly suspicious 
look. His golden fur was torn to reveal 


scratches underneath, and he was 
limping slightly on one forepaw, but he 
was still the magnificent ThunderClan 
warrior who Crowfeather could hardly 
believe was his son. 

“Okay,” Lionblaze mewed at last. He 
slowed his pace so that he and 
Crowfeather gradually dropped behind 
the rest of the patrol. “How is 
Breezepelt?” he asked hesitantly. 

“He'll be fine,” Crowfeather 
replied. When Lionblaze acknowledged 
his news with a nod, he continued 
awkwardly, the words he had been 
waiting to say bursting out of him. 

“Pm sorry I didn’t accept you and 
your littermates when I found out about 
you. I’m sorry that I said I had only one 


kit, and that anything else was a lie. If 
Pd known . . .” He stumbled over his 
words and had to begin again, while 
Lionblaze listened, expressionless. “If 
Pd only known when you were kits, 
when you needed me, surely things 
would have been different. I have no 
excuses, but . . . I hope you can forgive 
me for the way I acted.” 

Lionblaze paused for a moment 
before replying, his amber eyes 
gleaming with disbelief in the dim light 
of the tunnel, as if he was questioning 
why Crowfeather was even bothering to 
talk to him. “It doesn’t matter,’ he 
responded at last. “I was a full-grown 
warrior by the time I found out that you 
and Leafpool were my parents. I don’t 


need to be your kit. Bramblestar was the 
only father we knew, and he was a great 
one. He’ll always be my father, no 
matter what.” 

Crowfeather nodded, feeling the pain 
of rejection. He was glad that he had 
spoken, but he accepted that he could not 
control how his son responded. J guess 
Lionblaze and Jayfeather will always 
resent me. 

“Tm not angry with you,” Lionblaze 
added. “I accept your apology, and I’m 
grateful for the way it all turned out.” 

A little reassured, Crowfeather 
dipped his head again in acceptance. He 
began reaching out his tail to touch 
Lionblaze on the shoulder, then hastily 
drew it back again as he realized that 


would never be their relationship. This 
cordial agreement, with the air cleared 
between them, was the best he could 
hope for. And I have to learn to be okay 
with that. 

Part of Crowfeather was sad at the 
thought of what might have been, but 
mostly he was filled with relief that he 
and Lionblaze had reached an 
understanding. It felt like a cool shower 
of rain in a dry season. 

For a brief moment, Crowfeather 
wondered what his life would have been 
like if he and Leafpool had never 
returned to their Clans. They would have 
found a place to live happily, with 
Lionblaze and Jayfeather and Hollyleaf, 
and maybe many other kits. But then 


Crowfeather pushed the vision away. All 
three of their kits would have been 
different if he and Leafpool had raised 
them together, and he guessed that in the 
end Leafpool’s love of her Clan would 
have drawn her back to her calling as a 
medicine cat. The knowledge hurt, but 
everything had happened as it was meant 
to. And Crowfeather felt humbled that 
Lionblaze had forgiven him. 


Crowfeather and Lionblaze caught 
up to the rest of the patrol as they 
emerged from the tunnels, blinking in the 
sunlight that seemed dazzling after so 
long in the dark. Harespring, who had 
been leading the patrol, bounded up to 
Onestar. 


“The tunnels are clear of stoats,” he 
reported. 

“And it’s time we were leaving,” 
Squirrelflight added, gathering the 
ThunderClan cats together with a wave 
of her bushy tail. “Let us know if you 
have any more trouble.” 

“Pm sure we wort,” Onestar 
meowed, with a respectful dip of his 
head. “The stoats are gone, and we 
couldn’t have achieved that without your 
help. Please take the thanks of WindClan 
to Bramblestar.” 

Squirrelflight nodded, equally 
respectful. “I will. And may StarClan 
light your path.” 

“And yours,” Onestar responded. 

Crow feather watched as 


Squirrelflight led the ThunderClan cats 
away toward the border. Warm 
satisfaction filled him at the thought that 
their two Clans had worked together, 
along with hope that they could rely on 
each other in the future. As they went, he 
caught Nightcloud’s eye and saw that she 
was looking calm and approving. 

In the past she had always been 
angry and contemptuous of ThunderClan, 
never losing a chance to quarrel with 
them or accuse them of overstepping. 
For the first time, Crowfeather realized 
that so much of that had been because of 
him. 

It must have been hard for her, he 
thought as he and the rest of the 
WindClan cats headed for their camp, 


knowing that for so long my heart lay 
across that border. Maybe now she 
won t be so angry. And maybe in future 
the Clans can finally learn to get along 
in peace. 





CHAPTER 32 
» 


~v 


An icy wind swept across the moor, 
buffeting Crowfeather’s fur as he stood 
watching his apprentice. Featherpaw had 
picked up the scent of a rabbit where it 
crouched in a clump of long grass, and 
now she chased it up the hill, her 
muscles bunching and stretching as she 
gradually gained on her quarry. His heart 
warmed to see her speed and strength, as 
if she had never been injured. 

The rabbit doubled back, and 
without a heartbeats hesitation 
Featherpaw changed direction, not 
chasing the rabbit anymore, but seeming 


to know instinctively where it would 
run. She leaped on it with outstretched 
paws; Crowfeather heard the rabbit’s 
squeal of terror, abruptly cut off as 
Featherpaw killed it by biting its throat. 

He waited for his apprentice as she 
trotted back to him, her prey dangling 
from her jaws. “Was that okay?” she 
asked, her eyes shining as she dropped 
the rabbit in front of him. 

“No, it wasn’t okay,” Crowfeather 
meowed, then added quickly before 
Featherpaw had time to look 
disappointed, “It was magnificent. Well 
done!” 

Featherpaw blinked up at him 
happily. “It’s your catch really,’ she 
purred. “You’re such a great mentor!” 


Crowfeather felt a tingle of 
satisfaction in his paws, reflecting that 
even though he hadn’t been the best 
father when his kits were growing up, he 
was at least a good mentor now. Maybe 
that can make up for my other 
failings. ... 

“We'd better head back,” he 
meowed, picking up the rook he had 
caught earlier and leading the way down 
the hill and into the camp. 

“What shall we do now?” 
Featherpaw asked, dropping her rabbit 
on the fresh-kill pile. 

Glancing around the camp, 
Crowfeather spotted the other three 
apprentices dragging soiled bedding out 
of the elders’ den. “Go and help them,” 


he mewed, angling his ears in that 
direction. 

Featherpaw’s tail drooped. “Do I 
have to?” 

“Yes, you do. Life isn’t all rabbit- 
chasing, you know.” Crowfeather let out 
a little purr of satisfaction. “Tell them I 
said you made the best catch this 
season.” 

“Yes!” Energized again, Featherpaw 
dashed across the camp to join her 
denmates. 

lIl miss her when it’s time for her 
to become a warrior, Crowfeather 
thought as he watched her go. But shes 
shaping up to be a really fine one. 

He turned toward Kestrelflight’s den 
to visit his son. Several days had passed 


since the final battle against the stoats, 
and Breezepelt was the only one of the 
injured warriors who hadn’t returned to 
his duties. His recovery hadn’t gone as 
quickly as Crowfeather had hoped. He 
spent much of the time in a troubled, 
unhealthy sleep, and when he was 
awake, he was dull and listless. The day 
before, he had looked up at Crowfeather 
and called him Lionblaze before shaking 
his head and seeming to come to his 
senses. 

Maybe he’ll be better today, 
Crowfeather told himself, but it was 
hard to make himself believe it. 

As Crowfeather approached the 
medicine-cat den, Heathertail emerged 
and hurried over to him. “Where’s 


Nightcloud?” she asked. 

Crowfeather pointed with his tail to 
where the black she-cat was crouched 
near the fresh-kill pile, sharing a pigeon 
with | Sedgewhisker. Immediately, 
Heathertail bounded over to her, and 
Crowfeather followed. 

“I want you both to come to 
Kestrel flight’s den,” Heathertail 
meowed when she reached Nightcloud. 

Alarm in her eyes, Nightcloud 
immediately sprang to her paws, gulping 
down her mouthful of prey. “What 
happened?” she demanded. 

“I went to visit Breezepelt this 
morning,” Heathertail explained as she 
led the way back to the den, “and he’s 
taken a turn for the worse. You need to 


see him.” 

Crow feather and Nightcloud 
exchanged a look of alarm as they 
followed Heathertail. Inside the den, 
Crowfeather saw that Breezepelt was 
awake, but his eyes were glazed, and 
when Crowfeather touched his shoulder, 
he could feel heat radiating from his 
pelt. He didn’t seem to recognize any of 
them, but he was muttering to himself. 
“Stupid stoats . . . kill you all . . .” His 
head kept sagging to one side, as if he 
was half-asleep. 

Kestrelflight appeared from the back 
of the den, carrying a mouthful of borage 
leaves in his jaws. 

“Eat those,” he meowed, setting the 
leaves down in front of Breezepelt. 


“They'll help bring down your fever.” 

“Whats the matter with him?” 
Nightcloud asked anxiously. 

“Most of his wounds are healing 
nicely,” Kestrelflight told her, while 
Heathertail coaxed Breezepelt to eat the 
herbs. “But there’s one very bad bite, the 
one on his belly, and it’s infected. If it 
gets any worse, I’m afraid he won’t 
make it.” 

Crowfeather stared at the medicine 
cat in horror. Wont make it? What 
about his future with Heathertail? 
What about my chance to be a real 
father to him? “There must be 
something you can do,” he meowed. 

“I have plenty of herbs for the pain 
and the fever, but the remedy for infected 


bites is burdock root,” Kestrelflight 
explained. “And I’m all out of it. I used 
up the last of my supply on Breezepelt 
and the other injured warriors after the 
battle.” 

Crowfeather raised his head, his 
expression grim with determination. “It’s 
settled, then. We’ll go and search for 
burdock root if you tell us what to look 
for and where we might find it.” 

“This is leaf-bare,” Kestrelflight 
replied. “The leaves die back, and 
without the leaves it’s hard to know 
where the roots are. But I can send cats 
to the other Clans to ask the medicine 
cats if they have any to spare. Pd go 
myself, but I need to keep a close eye on 
Breezepelt.” 


Nightcloud spun around to gaze at 
Crowfeather. “You should go to 
ThunderClan and ask Leafpool,” she 
meowed. “She won’t say no to you.” 

Kestrelflight glanced away and gave 
his shoulder an embarrassed lick, 
clearly uncomfortable at being reminded 
of Crowfeather’s history with the 
ThunderClan cat. 

Feeling awkward, Crowfeather 
hesitated. Is Nightcloud really asking 
me to go visit Leafpool? 

A hint of her old rage glimmered in 
Nightcloud’s eyes, but it wasn’t jealousy 
that Crowfeather saw there. “You must!” 
she insisted fiercely. “Leafpool won’t let 
your son die if she can stop it. 
Crowfeather, you owe it to me and to 


Breezepelt to ask her. You have to do 
everything you can.” 

Crowfeather realized that she was 
right. This is no time to start raking 
over old troubles. “Of course Ill go,” 
he mewed. 


Crowfeather stood on the bank of the 
border stream, his shoulders hunched 
against a thin drizzle that had started as 
he crossed the moor. He was waiting for 
a ThunderClan patrol. His claws tore 
impatiently at the grass as he wondered 
how long it would be before any cats 
appeared. 

If they’re waiting for the rain to 
stop, it could be too late for Breezepelt. 

Crowfeather’s paws itched to leap 


across and hurry toward the camp on his 
own, but he knew it would be a bad idea 
to trespass when he had come to ask a 
favor. 

I wish I’d thought to bring another 
cat with me, he thought. Featherpaw, for 
example ... We could have done some 
training, and then I wouldn't have the 
time to worry about Breezepelt. 

But when Crowfeather had asked 
Onestar’s permission to visit Leafpool, 
his Clan leader had told him to go alone. 
“You won’t have any trouble,” Onestar 
had assured him. “Not since you’re on 
medicine-cat business.” 

Finally, Crowfeather picked up a 
fresher ThunderClan scent and heard the 
sound of a patrol brushing through the 


undergrowth on the far side of the 
stream. He stepped forward to the very 
edge as Sandstorm, Berrynose, and 
Ivypool emerged into the open. 

“Great StarClan, it’s you again!” 
Berrynose exclaimed. 

And it’s you again, you rude furball. 
Crowfeather didn’t speak the thought 
aloud. “Greetings,” he meowed politely, 
addressing Sandstorm. “Please, may I 
come across? I’m on _ medicine-cat 
business from Kestrelflight, and I need 
to speak to Leafpool.” 

“This is a border,” Berrynose 
pointed out, before Sandstorm could 
reply. “Smell the scent marks? You can’t 
come in here when you feel like it, as if 
you were a kittypet going in and out of 


its Twolegs’ den.” 

Crowfeather felt the fur on his spine 
beginning to rise at being compared to a 
kittypet, but he forced it to lie flat again. 
He needed to stay on good terms with 
these cats and get the help he needed 
quickly, however much he might want to 
claw the smug expression off 
Berrynose’s face. 

“That’s enough, Berrynose,” 
Sandstorm snapped, and Crowfeather 
caught Ivypool rolling her eyes. 

I guess ThunderClan cats find 
Berrynose just as much of a pain in the 
tail as we do, Crowfeather thought. 

“You can come over, Crowfeather,” 
Sandstorm went on. “We’re ready to go 
back to camp, so we can escort you.” 


Sandstorm led the way through the 
woods with Crowfeather behind her and 
Berrynose bringing up the rear with 
Ivypool. Crowfeather winced at the cold 
touch of wet grass and fern against his 
pelt, and the drops of rain from the trees 
that plopped down on his back. 
Somehow the forest seems so much 
wetter than the moor, he thought as he 
trudged along with his head down. 

When they reached the stone hollow, 
Sandstorm took Crowfeather as far as 
the entrance to the medicine-cat den and 
left him there. “Go right in,” she 
instructed him. “I'll tell Bramblestar 
you're here.” 

Crowfeather brushed past the 
brambles that screened the entrance to 


the den, calling out Leafpool’s name as 
he entered. But once he was inside the 
den, he saw that Leafpool wasn’t there, 
only Jayfeather and Briarlight curled up 
asleep in her nest. He halted, freezing. 

Now what do I do? 

Jayfeather turned from where he was 
sorting herbs toward the back of the den. 
“That’s WindClan scent,” he muttered, 
tasting the air. A moment later he added, 
“Oh, it’s you, Crowfeather.” He didn’t 
sound happy about it. “What do you 
want?” 

“I was looking for Leafpool,” 
Crowfeather explained, realizing that he 
would have to make the best of the 
awkward situation. 

“She’s out gathering herbs,” 


Jayfeather told him curtly. “But if you’re 
here on medicine-cat business, I can 
help with that just as well as Leafpool 
can. She certainly doesn’t need you 
taking up any more of her time. You’ve 
already done enough of that.” 
Crowfeather flinched, glad that 
Jayfeather couldn’t see him. 
“Kestrelflight sent me to ask if you could 
spare any burdock root,” he mewed. 
Jayfeather flicked his tail. 
“Lionblaze told me Breezepelt was 
injured in the battle,’ he responded 
dryly. “Is that who the burdock root is 
for? Is that why Kestrelflight sent you?” 
The tight lines of Jayfeather’s 
shoulders, the tilted back, the furious 
angle of his ears, even the clipped, 


sullen tone of his voice all seemed so 
familiar to Crowfeather. He looked and 
sounded like Breezepelt at his angriest. 
In fact, Crowfeather realized with a 
weird little lurch in his belly, they both 
look and sound like me, at my worst. 
For the first time—and Crowfeather 
knew that it was pretty useless to see it 
now—he felt a flush of recognition for 
Jayfeather. Even though Bramblestar had 
raised him, there could be no doubt: The 
blind medicine cat really was his kit. 
“Yes, the burdock root is for 
Breezepelt,” he admitted, allowing a bit 
of impatience into his own voice. 
Jayfeather needs to know I’m serious. 
“He’s badly hurt. Kestrelflight says he 
has an infected stoat bite. He’s feverish 





and he doesn’t recognize any cat, and 
Kestrelflight told me he needs burdock 
root. He—” 

“Tm sorry.” Jayfeather cut him off 
with barely concealed contempt. “I don’t 
have any to spare.” 

The disappointment struck 
Crowfeather like a blow. For a moment 
he’d thought he understood the cranky, 
blind medicine cat. . . . But I was wrong. 
And why shouldnt I be? I barely know 
him. 

Crowfeather felt a sinking feeling 
deep in his chest and was about to take 
his leave when he realized something: 
Jayfeather had said he couldn’t spare 
any burdock root, not that he didn’t have 
any at all. 


“If you can lend me some, just for a 
little while,” he pleaded, “Ill find more 
for you. I—” 

Jayfeather interrupted again, every 
word spat out as if it were rotting crow- 
food. “Breezepelt tried to kill my 
brother. He said he was glad that 
Hollyleaf was dead, and that none of us 
should ever have been born. Lionblaze 
might have forgiven Breezepelt, but 
Lionblaze is a nicer cat than I am. Or a 
more stupid one.” His blind eyes glared 
at Crowfeather, the pelt on his scrawny 
figure bushing out. “I can’t forgive 
Breezepelt. I can’t forgive you. And I 
don’t have any burdock root to spare.” 

Crowfeather stood still, his 
shoulders sagging as he took his son’s 


hostile expression. The thought crossed 
his mind that he could fight his way past 
Jayfeather and take the burdock root, but 
he knew how bee-brained that would be. 
I’d never make it out of the camp. But it 
was hard to know that the root to save 
Breezepelt was only a few tail-lengths 
away, at the back of the den. 

“I’m sorry I treated you badly when I 
found out you were my kit,” Crowfeather 
meowed at last, breaking the long 
silence. “And I know that Breezepelt is 
sorry for what he did in the battle against 
the Dark Forest.” 

If he had hoped for a sympathetic 
response from Jayfeather, he was 
disappointed. The medicine cat said 
nothing, only flicked his tail 


dismissively. 

Crowfeather dipped his head in 
acceptance. “Good-bye,” he murmured. 
“I should have known that you would say 
no.” Then he turned and left the den. 

I'll go on around the lake and stop 
off in ShadowClan, and if thats no 
good, lIl visit RiverClan on my way 
home. Mothwing won't refuse if she has 
the burdock root. But even so, every 
extra paw step takes time Breezepelt 
may not have.... 

The rain was still falling, depressing 
Crowfeather’s spirits even more. He 
headed for the thorn tunnel, but before he 
reached it, he heard Jayfeather calling 
out behind him. “Crowfeather, wait!” 

Crowfeather halted and turned. 


Jayfeather was approaching him, 
carrying something in his mouth. In spite 
of everything, Crowfeather was 
impressed by the way the blind cat found 
his way across the camp, even skirting 
neatly around a puddle that lay in his 
way. 

When Jayfeather reached him, 
Crowfeather saw that what he was 
carrying was burdock root; he dropped it 
on the ground at Crowfeather’s paws. 

“I still don’t forgive you,” Jayfeather 
mewed. “Everything I said is still true. 
But Pm a medicine cat, and I can’t just 
let a cat die when I could save him. Not 
even Breezepelt. So here is the burdock 
root.” 

Crowfeather could hardly catch his 


breath. “Th-thank you!” he stammered. 

Jayfeather didn’t respond. Turning 
away, he padded back to his den and 
disappeared behind the bramble screen. 
Crowfeather picked up the burdock root 
from the muddy ground and bounded 
back toward WindClan territory. 

Hang on, Breezepelt, he thought. I’m 
on my way. 





CHAPTER 33 
4 


~v 


Nightcloud and Heathertail leaped to 
their paws as Crowfeather entered the 
medicine-cat den. Breezepelt was curled 
up beside them, shifting in an uneasy 
sleep. 

“Well? Did Leafpool have burdock 
root?” Nightcloud demanded. 

“I saw Jayfeather, not Leafpool,” 
Crowfeather replied, dropping the root 
in front of Kestrelflight. “He gave me the 
root.” No need to tell them how he gave 
it to me. 

Instantly Kestrelflight seized the 
burdock root and began chewing it into a 


pulp. Once he had some ready, he spread 
it on the swollen stoat bite and bound it 
in place with a cobweb. 

“That should help with the pain and 
deal with the infection,” he explained. 

As sunhigh came and went, 
Crow feather, Nightcloud, and 
Heathertail all remained in the 
medicine-cat den, anxiously watching 
over Breezepelt. At first Crowfeather 
couldn’t see much change in his son’s 
condition, but after a long while 
Breezepelt seemed to fall into a deeper, 
quieter sleep. 

“That’s a good sign,” Kestrelflight 
meowed. “A real sleep—not the restless 
kind he’s had up to now—is healing.” 

All three warriors looked at each 


other, and Crowfeather saw his own 
relief reflected in the she-cats’ faces. He 
noticed too that they both looked 
exhausted after their long vigil. 

“You should go and get some prey, 
and then rest,” he told them. “You’ve 
been here in the den, worrying, all day.” 
Nightcloud opened her jaws to protest, 
but Crowfeather forestalled her. “PH 
stay right here beside Breezepelt,” he 
promised, “and [ll call you if anything 
changes.” 

“Crowfeather’s right,’ Kestrelflight 
agreed. “You should go. It won’t help 
Breezepelt if you make yourselves ill.” 

Nightcloud and Heathertail 
exchanged a glance, then, still clearly 
reluctant, padded out of the den. 


Crowfeather settled down beside 
Breezepelt’s nest, his gaze fixed on his 
son’s sleeping face. Kestrelflight came 
and went silently, busy with his 
medicine-cat duties. 

Crowfeather’s mind flew back to the 
day when Breezepelt was born. Even 
then he hadn’t loved Nightcloud in the 
way he had loved Feathertail, and later 
Leafpool, but he’d admired her for her 
strength and her loyalty to WindClan. He 
was proud that she was having his kits, 
but he wasn’t prepared for the sharp 
pang of love he felt for Breezepelt when 
the kit was finally born. 

The birth had been a difficult one. 
There were two other kits in the litter— 
one had been born dead, and the other 


lived for only a few moments. But 
Breezepelt had been perfect and strong. 

How did I get so far from that 
feeling? 

Crowfeather became aware of 
scarlet light from the sunset seeping into 
the den, and then the remaining daylight 
fading into night. Kestrelflight was 
asleep in his nest and Crowfeather was 
dozing when Breezepelt finally stirred. 

Crowfeather looked up to see that 
his son’s eyes were open, and they 
weren’t glossy and unfocused as they 
had been earlier—they were now sharp 
and alert. 

“How do you feel?” Crowfeather 
asked him. “You’ve been really ill. We 
were all worried about you.” 


99 


“Pm fine . . . ,” Breezepelt 
murmured. He raised his head and 
looked around him, blinking in vague 
surprise to see the sleeping Kestrelflight 
and the darkness outside. “You’ve been 
here all night?” he asked. 

“Yes, well . . .” Crowfeather felt 
uncomfortable as he realized that 
Breezepelt was touched to see him there. 
“Heathertail was watching over you,” he 
went on rapidly, “but she got so 
exhausted that I talked her into going for 
a rest. She and Nightcloud will be back 
at dawn to see how you are.” 

“That’s good,” Breezepelt 
responded. “Heathertail is .. . amazing.” 

“She certainly is,’ Crowfeather 
agreed. 


“I can’t believe she actually wants to 
be with me,” Breezepelt continued, a 
bewildered but happy expression on his 
face. 

“Why on earth not?” Crowfeather 
touched Breezepelt’s shoulder with his 
tail-tip. “Youre a loyal WindClan 
warrior, and one of the bravest.” 

Breezepelt met his gaze, disbelief in 
his eyes. “You really believe that?” 

“T really do.” 

Talking softly to his son in the dark, 
Crowfeather felt like things truly were 
changing. He was keeping the promise 
he’d made to Ashfoot, and to himself. 
This is good, he thought. Why was it so 
difficult before? 

Soon Breezepelt went back to sleep, 


and Crowfeather felt reassured enough 
to do the same. At once he found himself 
on a hillside, with wind rippling the 
grass and blowing through his fur, 
flattening it to his sides. The air was full 
of wild moorland scents. The sky 
glittered with stars, and light came from 
somewhere behind him, so that he cast a 
long, wavering shadow out in front. 
Turning, Crowfeather saw Ashfoot. 

His mother stood facing him. Her 
gray fur shone with the pale glow he had 
seen before in his dreams, but this time 
her ears shimmered faintly, and there 
was a frosty sparkle around her paws. 

“You made it to StarClan!” he 
exclaimed, overawed by how beautiful 
she was. 


Ashfoot dipped her head. “It was 
time,” she mewed. “I’m so proud of you, 
Crowfeather. Proud that you’re finally 
listening. No cat can be a good warrior, 
or a loyal Clanmate, with a closed heart. 
Now you have opened yours . . . and 
WindClan is better for it.” 

Deep happiness flowed through 
Crowfeather at his mother’s praise, but 
apprehension was mixed with it, too. “It 
scares me a little,” he admitted. “Caring, 
when for so long I tried not to. Any cat 
you love, you can lose.” 

“The loss is worth it,’ Ashfoot 
purred warmly. “I loved you... so 
much . . . and now it hurts to part. But 
I’m better for it, and so are you.” 

“Then I won’t see you again?” 


Crowfeather asked, feeling as if a forest 
tree had crashed down on top of him. 

“Not like this,” Ashfoot responded. 
“But lIl always watch out for you, from 
StarClan.” 

Crowfeather heaved a long sigh, 
forcing himself into acceptance. “Good- 
bye, then,” he meowed. “Ill always 
love you, and miss you.” 

“Take care of your kin,” his mother 
meowed. “And remember that I’m 
always with you... .” 

Her voice died away on the last few 
words. Crowfeather saw her shape 
begin to fade, until it was no more than a 
frosty glimmer in the air, and then was 
gone. 





CHAPTER 34 
» 


~v 


The sun was almost touching the top of 
the moor as Crowfeather and 
Featherpaw carefully pressed a flat 
stone against the side of one of the tunnel 
entrances, shoring up a spill of 
crumbling earth. 

“Good,” Crowfeather meowed, 
stepping back with a purr of satisfaction. 
“We should get this job finished before 
nightfall.” 

More than a half-moon had passed 
since the battle against the stoats, and so 
far none of the survivors had returned. 
Even their scent had well and truly 


faded. Onestar had ordered the tunnel 
entrances to be blocked more securely, 
all except for one, and had decided that 
WindClan needed to patrol the tunnels to 
discourage any other animals from 
settling there in future. 

“Imagine if a family of badgers 
decided to live there!” he had meowed. 

As Featherpaw went off to find more 
stones, Nightcloud and Hootpaw 
emerged from the entrance and stood 
beside Crowfeather, shaking dust from 
their pelts. 


“That’s done!” Nightcloud 
exclaimed. “The whole place is clear of 
the last of the old prey.” 


“Tt was disgusting!” Hootpaw added, 
passing his tongue over his jaws as if he 


could taste the crow-food. “I thought 
we'd never finish.” 

“Well done,” Crowfeather mewed 
with an approving nod, surprised at how 
comfortable he felt around Nightcloud 
now. 

“You’ve done enough!” Heathertail’s 
voice came from farther along the bank; 
Crowfeather turned to see her with 
Breezepelt. “Onestar has chosen you to 
go to the Gathering, so you should rest 
first.” 

Breezepelt gave her a friendly 
shove. “I’m perfectly fine,” he mewed. 

Crowfeather could hardly believe 
how carefree Breezepelt sounded, as if 
more had been healed within him than 
just the infection from the stoat bite. /ts 


good to hear him like that. 

He exchanged an amused glance with 
Nightcloud as they listened to the two 
young cats’ amiable wrangling. 

Nightcloud leaned closer to him and 
whispered into his ear, “I wouldn’t be 
surprised if there are new kits in the 
nursery soon.” 

“Really?” Crowfeather asked. “I 
know you said that before, but—” 

“Just look at them, mouse-brain!” 
Nightcloud’s words were harsh, but her 
eyes were sparkling and her tail curled 


up playfully. 
“Kits .. . ,? Crowfeather murmured. 
“Great StarClan, this soon . . . 2?” I’m 


just figuring out how to be a father. ... 
Onestar’s voice, calling the Clan 


together, interrupted his musing. The sun 
was beginning to set, casting scarlet light 
across the moor. A chilly breeze had 
sprung up, but the sky was clear, a good 
omen for the night’s Gathering. 

“Duties are over for the day,” the 
Clan leader announced as his cats 
padded up to him. “We’ll head back to 
the camp, and the cats I’ve chosen for 
the Gathering should go to their dens and 
rest.” 

At least, Crowfeather thought as he 
began to climb the hill behind his Clan 
leader, this time we have good news to 
report. 


Crowfeather slipped into the shifting 
mass of cats in the clearing beneath the 


branches of the Great Oak. Once again 
WindClan was the last to arrive, but the 
Clan leaders seemed to be in no hurry to 
start the meeting. The WindClan cats had 
time to mingle with the earlier arrivals, 
greeting their friends from other Clans. 

Crowfeather found a space for 
himself not far from the roots of the 
Great Oak, where Harespring had taken 
his place with the other deputies. Not far 
away, he spotted lLeafpool and 
Jayfeather with their fellow medicine 
cats. 

For a long time before the battle 
against the Dark Forest, Crowfeather 
had been barely able to look at either of 
them, but now all he could feel toward 
them was gratitude. 


Leafpool had helped him heal his 
heart after Feathertail died, even though 
in the end they couldn’t be together, and 
Jayfeather might still hate Breezepelt, 
but he’d done what was right to save his 
life. 

Finally, Blackstar lifted his head to 
get every cat’s attention: “Before we 
begin, let us remember the fallen...” 

This again, Crowfeather thought, 
although it did feel important to not 
forget the fallen warriors. 

As soon as he’d finished, Blackstar 
then declared that prey was running well 
in ShadowClan territory. “My patrols 
picked up fox scent near the Twoleg 
greenleafplace,”’ he continued, “but it 
faded quickly and hasn’t returned. We 


think that the fox was only passing 
through.” 

He stepped back, waving his tail for 
Mistystar to speak for RiverClan. The 
blue-gray she-cat dipped her head in 
acknowledgement before she began. 

“All is well in RiverClan,” she 
announced. “This last moon we had 
several cases of whitecough, but 
Mothwing and Willowshine were able to 
treat it before it turned to greencough, 
and the sick cats are recovering well. 
Mothwing, Willowshine, your Clan 
thanks you.” 

The RiverClan cats joined in 
chanting the names of their two medicine 
cats, as Bramblestar stepped forward to 
begin his report. 


“Life is good in ThunderClan,” he 
meowed. “Two of our apprentices, 
Cherrypaw and  Molepaw, have 
completed their training, after 
Whitewing took over and worked with 
Cherrypaw. We welcome them as 
warriors, Cherryfall and Molewhisker.” 

“Cherryfall! Molewhisker!” Yowling 
erupted from the assembled cats, while 
the two new warriors ducked their 
heads, looking happily embarrassed. 

Crowfeather half expected 
Bramblestar to mention the battle against 
the stoats, but the ThunderClan leader 
gave his place to Blackstar without 
saying any more. 

He must be leaving that piece of 
news to Onestar, Crowfeather thought, 


as Bramblestar sat on his branch again 
with a nod to Onestar to give his report. 
Crowfeather thought that his Clan 
leader looked proud as he rose to his 
paws and let his gaze travel over the 
assembled cats on the ground below 
him. And no wonder, after all the 
problems at the last Gathering. So 
much has changed since then. 
“WindClan fought a battle with the 
stoats in the tunnels,” Onestar began. 
“Many of the stoats were killed, and the 
survivors fled. The tunnels are now 
clear again. But WindClan did not fight 
alone. ThunderClan came to our aid, and 
without their bravery and the generous 
help they gave us, we could never have 
won this victory. Bramblestar, WindClan 


thanks you and your Clan from the 
bottom of our hearts.” 

Onestar paused, dipping his head 
deeply toward Bramblestar; 
Crowfeather could see how much he 
now respected the young ThunderClan 
leader. Bramblestar’s amber eyes 
glowed in response, as if praise from the 
older and more experienced leader 
meant a lot to him. 

“T also want to mention another cat,” 
Onestar went on. “A warrior from my 
own Clan, with whom I’ve had my 
differences, but who never gave up on 
his determination that the stoats must be 
driven out. Crowfeather, while we’ve 
butted heads, I appreciate your devotion 
to WindClan.” 


Crowfeather felt a warming beneath 
his pelt as Onestar nodded in his 
direction. Don't go softhearted on me, 
he thought, but in his embarrassment he 
managed to nod his head to show his 
appreciation. Onestar nodded back, then 
went on. 

“I must also mention the cats who 
fought with special bravery and deserve 
our collective thanks,” Onestar went on. 
“From ThunderClan, Mousewhisker, 
Birchfall, Thornclaw, and Blossomfall; 
from WindClan, Harespring, Larkwing, 
Whiskernose, and Breezepelt.” 

As Onestar spoke the names, a 
murmur arose from the gathered cats, as 
they realized that these were the cats 
who had trained with the Dark Forest 


behind their Clanmates’ backs. 

As soon as Onestar had finished 
speaking, Rowanclaw, the ShadowClan 
deputy, sprang to his paws from where 
he sat on the roots of the Great Oak. 
Crowfeather felt dread rise in his belly, 
knowing very well that Rowanclaw was 
about to disrupt the spirit of friendship 
that was growing among the Clans. 

“So they should fight bravely!” he 
snapped. “They’ve got a lot to make up 
for before any cat trusts them again.” 

Bramblestar rose, glaring down at 
Rowanclaw, but before he could speak, 
Lionblaze leaped up and faced the 
ShadowClan deputy. 

“Shame on you, Rowanclaw!” he 
meowed. “Every cat knows that those 


cats were tricked. They thought they 
were becoming stronger warriors to 
protect their Clans. They’ve taken an 
oath of loyalty, and have proved 
themselves since then. Breezepelt saved 
my life when the stoats swarmed over 
me. If I can forgive Breezepelt for his 
part in the Great Battle, then you, 
Rowanclaw, have no excuse.” The 
golden tabby tom turned his head until 
his cool amber gaze rested on 
Breezepelt. “I, for one, think the past 
should be left in the past,” he finished. 
Rowanclaw subsided onto his root 
with a glowering look, but he said no 
more. While Bramblestar briefly thanked 
Onestar and brought the meeting to an 
end, Crowfeather kept his gaze fixed on 


Lionblaze. 

What a straightforward, generous, 
candid cat Lionblaze is, he thought. He 
a strong warrior, and any cat should be 
proud to call him kin. A little wryly he 
admitted to himself that being raised by 
Bramblestar probably had a good deal to 
do with his having turned out to be that 
kind of cat. Maybe one day I'll thank 
Bramblestar for that. 


Crowfeather padded between 
Onestar and Harespring as they crossed 
the moor on their way back to the 
WindClan camp. Thin clouds scudded 
across the sky, driven by a stiff breeze, 
but the moon floated serenely above 
them all, and the warriors of StarClan 


glittered from horizon to horizon. 

“That was a great Gathering,” 
Harespring remarked, blinking in 
satisfaction. “It’s good that there’s peace 
among all the Clans.” 

“Yes,” Crowfeather agreed. “Now 
there’s time for the Clans to grow strong, 
unthreatened by one another.” 

For several heartbeats Onestar was 
silent; his eyes were dark and inward- 
looking. “Are you okay?” Harespring 
asked him. 

Onestar glanced at Harespring, then 
at Crowfeather, and then at his own 
paws, padding steadily uphill. “I don’t 
know how long there will be peace in 
the Clans,” he mewed softly. “I can’t 
shake off the feeling that something bad 


is coming.” 

“Do you know what?” Harespring 
asked his Clan leader. 

Onestar shook his head. “No,” he 
responded, shivering. “But sometimes I 
have bad dreams.” 

Crowfeather remembered 
Kestrelflight’s vision of water gushing 
from the tunnels, strong enough to 
overwhelm and drown all the Clans. 
I’ve thought all along that the stoats 
werent enough to explain such a 
terrible sign, he thought with a sudden 
quaking in his belly. What if I’m right? 
What if there is a second wave that will 
engulf us all? 


They returned to the camp, and 


Crowfeather curled up in his nest. In 
spite of Onestar’s misgivings, he felt at 
peace. WindClan had learned a lesson: 
We must trust the other Clans. 

Sinking into sleep, Crowfeather 
dreamed that he was lying in a sunny 
hollow on the moor, with the scents of 
fresh growth filling the air. Healthy, 
boisterous kits were swarming all over 
him, batting at him with their soft paws 
and letting out excited squeaks as they 
tumbled about. One of them, he noticed, 
had Heathertail’s wide blue eyes, while 
two of the others were as black as 
Breezepelt. 

“Oof! Get off” Crowfeather 
exclaimed, batting gently at them with 
claws sheathed. 


“Youre a badger!” one of the kits 
squealed. “And we’re warriors coming 
to get you!” 

“Yeah, get off our territory, stinky 
badger!” Another of them dug his paws 
deep into Crowfeather’s fur. 

One of the kits, more adventurous 
than the rest, was heading off across the 
moor. Nightcloud intercepted her and 
guided her back toward her littermates. 
Breezepelt and Heathertail, their tails 
twined together, looked on with laughter 
in their eyes. 

Crowfeather had never known such 
feelings of deep happiness and peace. 
Looking up, he saw a cloud above him 
suddenly shift into a familiar shape. 
Ashfoot’s face was looking down at him, 


and Crowfeather basked in the pride and 
love in her expression. 

Thank you, Ashfoot, he thought. You 
taught me what I needed to learn. 
Everything I endured brought me to 
this, to give me something to fight for 
in WindClan. 

And if trouble does come, he added 
to himself, then WindClan will deal 
with it. After the Great Battle, and the 
fight against the stoats, theres surely 
no threat that our Clan can t face. 








CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ART BY 
JAMES L. BARRY 


MY NAME IS CROWFEATHER, THINGS HAVE BEEN HARD FOR f; 
A CAT OF WINDCLAN. US SINCE ONESTAR DIED, 


IT FEELS LIKE... 
LIKE THERE'S A SHADOW. OVER THE 
WHOLE CAMP. ALL THE TIME. 


MY SON, BREEZEPELT, ISN'T WRONG. THINGS SHOULD GET 
WINDCLAN HAS BEEN THROUGH TERRIBLE BETTER NOW, THOUGH, I HOPE. 
TIMES THIS GREENLEAF. NOW THAT HARESTAR LEADS 
THE CLAN. 


WHO DO YOU THINK 


I DON’T KNOW. 


i WHOEVER HE WANTS. 
HE CAUSED A LOT OF DAMAGE. TO ALL § 
FIVE CLANS. \ DOESN'T REALLY 
i MATTER TO ME. 


WHAT DARKTAIL DID...AND THE REASONS HE'LL CHOOSE AS HIS 
FOR IT. PAINFUL SECRETS, NOW LAID BARE 
FOR US TO SEE. 
\ 


CGS 


= LG 


A | ET 
N 
e £ 


OR MAYBE HE'S JUST TIRED OF ALL 
THE CHANGES AROUND US. 
I COULDN'T BLAME HIM FOR THAT. 





HARESTAR PROBABLY WON'T CHOOSE ME, EITHER. 
HE'LL WANT A YOUNGER CAT. AND I UNDERSTAND. 


I’M JUST HAPPY MY FAMILY IS 
DOING WELL NOW. FOR THE MOST 
PART, ANYWAY. 


altel 
WE'RE HUNTING. 
WE NEED TO CONCENTRATE. 
I KNOW THAT. 
SSI 


BUT TO HEAR MY SON SAY 
"THANKS"... NO FLINCHING? NO 
ANGRY RETORT? JUST "THANKS." 


BREEZEPELT MIGHT HAVE A GOOD X 
FUTURE IN WINDCLAN AFTER ALL. Ñ 


TENN 





val 
5 il I 
? W if 


I JUST CAN'T BELIEVE 
HOW CLOSE THE CLANS 


AND IT ALL CAME 
DOWN TO DARKTAIL. 
Á 


ARE WE THAT CLOSE TO 


( 4 EVERYTHING FALLING APART? 
THAT ONE CAT CAN DO THAT 
MUCH DAMAGE? 


DON'T WORRY, BREEZEPELT. AND WE'LL BE 
THE CLANS SURVIVED FOR HERE LONG AFTER HE'S 
COUNTLESS SEASONS BEFORE FORGOTTEN. 
DARKTAIL CAME. 


A y DARKTAIL WAS...A BAD STORM. 
1 ES A CASE OF WHITECOUGH. HE DID SOME 
DAMAGE, YES, BUT IT’S NOTHING WE 
— WON'T ENDURE. 
— X 





OPENING UP ALL 
THESE OLD WOUNDS. 
MORE BETRAYALS. 


I GUESS YOU'RE 
RIGHT. I HOPE YOU'RE 


RIGHT. IT'S JUST... 
WILL THIS KEEP THE CLANS 


SO MANY WERE READY TO TRUST aft FROM EVER TRUSTING THE DARK 
AND LOOK WHAT HE "A FOREST WARRIORS? 


HT 
| I WISH I KNEW THE ANSWER 
ra TO THAT QUESTION. 


w 
MA h fs 


WHICH CATS? GOT A 
SCENT YET? 





LIONBLAZE. 
Vd 


Fe 

Q á 
ZA 
Je 


IERE WAS 
LONG AGO WOULD HAVE BEEN AT EACH OTHER'S 
THROATS. 
Ww 


f Ki 

A TIME, NOT 1 í WHEN BREEZEPELT AND LIONBLAZE 
AT ALL, 

A Sm 


MTV YY 
W a 
y Yy vp 
(l 
iji H 





OVER WINDCLAN NOW. AFTER 
THE GREAT BATTLE... 


AFTER EVERYTHING DARKTAIL DID, À 


BUT MY SONS HAVE MADE PEACE 
WITH EACH OTHER. AND NEITHER OF THEM 
HATE ME ANY LONGER. 


THAT MEANS SO MUCH MORE THAN 
THE TITLE OF HARESTAR'S DEPUTY. 


ae 


Wy, KUN iy 
i i š an 
j 0 





y SURROUNDED BY SO MANY CATS 
WHO WANTED NOTHING TO DO WITH 
HIM FOR SO LONG.. 


4A 


IF HE THINKS OUR CLANMATES 
DON'T TRUST HIM, WILL HE START 
DRIVING THEM AWAY? 


i WILL HE MAKE THEM THINK HE 
HJ] DOESN'T BELONG HERE AFTER ALL? 





= 
ARE THEY GOING TO 
REJECT BREEZEPELT? 


HAS EVERYTHING WE'VE DONE 
BEEN FOR NOTHING? 


f 
= NO... WAIT... 


n 
KE 


A 
YOU'RE 
Mee 


\\ 
T DON'T THINK 
WAGINING 


a or 


CROWFEATHER, 
IF YOU CAN SPARE A 


NV 4 
N i dd 
I--OF COURSE, Ni 
WHAT DO You-- 


N i A WINDCLAN! 
AIIAN 3 T HAVE AN ANNOUNCEMENT 
BN y 5 TO MAKE! 


N 
WZ MW 





CROWFEATHER, AFTER CAREFUL 
THOUGHT, I HAVE DECIDED TO NAME 
YOU AS MY NEW DEPUTY. 


ARUN ee 


NM 
i, 


T DON'T WANT HIM TO RESENT 
ME...TO HATE ME. IT'S NOT 
WORTH THAT! 


allt, 


N 


tall \ 


IT WOULD BE MY 
HONOR, HARESTAR. 


DON’T WORRY. 
YOU'LL BE A GREAT 


DEPUTY. CROWFEATHER? 


HARESTAR spurl 


CHOSE WELL. 


THERE'S NIGHTCLOUD-- 


SHE'S ALL RIGHT WITH 
THIS, 100? 





MY SONS...MY FAMILY... MY 
WHOLE CLAN, AT PEACE. 
lee 
4 i 


I DON'T KNOW IF I 
DESERVE ALL THIS. 


IE BNW) 


AND I SWEAR... 
TLL BE 
THE BEST DEPUTY I CAN 
POSSIBLY BE. 


I SAY THESE WORDS 
BEFORE STARCLAN... 


LET ALL CATS OLD 
ENOUGH TO CATCH THEIR 
OWN PREY JOIN HERE 
BENEATH THE TALLROCK 
FOR A CLAN MEETING! 


Wi 
Uy ay "iw 


si, My, W 


h 





Excerpt from Bravelands: 
Broken Pride 


HEED THE CALL OF THE WILD... 
A NEW ERIN HUNTER ADVENTURE 
BEGINS 





For generations, the animals of the African plains have been 
ruled by the code of the wild: only kill to survive. But when an 
unthinkable act of betrayal shatters the peace, a young lion, a 
baboon, and an elephant calf will be thrust together in an epic 
battle for survival. The fragile balance between predators and 


prey now rests in the paws of these unlikely heroes. . . . 


VAISS, 
Wid Wer 





CHAPTER ONE 


Swiftcub pounced after the vulture’ 
shadow, but it flitted away too quickly to 
follow. Breathing hard, he pranced back 
to his pride. J saw that bird off our 
territory, he thought, delighted. No rot- 
eaters going to come near 
Gallantpride while I’m around! 

The pride needed him to defend it, 
Swiftcub thought, picking up his paws 
and strutting around his family. Why, 
right now they were all half asleep, 
dozing and basking in the shade of the 
acacia trees. The most energetic thing 
the other lions were doing was lifting 
their heads to groom their nearest 


neighbors, or their own paws. They had 
no idea of the threat Swiftcub had just 
banished. 

I might be only a few moons old, 
but my father is the strongest, bravest 
lion in Bravelands. And I’m going to be 
just like him! 

“Swiftcub!” 

The gentle but commanding voice 
snapped him out of his dreams of glory. 
He came to a halt, turning and flicking 
his ears at the regal lioness who stood 
over him. 

“Mother,” he said, shifting on his 
paws. 

“Why are you shouting at vultures?” 
Swift scolded him fondly, licking at his 
ears. “They’re nothing but scavengers. 


Come on, you and your sister can play 
later. Right now you’re supposed to be 
practicing hunting. And if you’re going 
to catch anything, you'll need to keep 
your eyes on the prey, not on the sky!” 

“Sorry, Mother.” Guiltily he padded 
after her as she led him through the dry 
grass, her tail swishing. The ground rose 
gently, and Swiftcub had to trot to keep 
up. The grasses tickled his nose, and he 
was so focused on trying not to sneeze, 
he almost bumped into his mother’s 
haunches as she crouched. 

“Oops,” he growled. 

Valor shot him a glare. His older 
sister was hunched a little to the left of 
their mother, fully focused on their 
hunting practice. Valor’s sleek body was 


low to the ground, her muscles tense; as 
she moved one paw forward with the 
utmost caution, Swiftcub tried to copy 
her, though it was hard to keep up on his 
much shorter legs. One creeping pace, 
then two. Then another. 

I’m being very quiet, just like Valor. 
I’m going to be a great hunter. He slunk 
up alongside his mother, who remained 
quite still. 

“There, Swiftcub,” she murmured. 
“Do you see the burrows?” 

He did, now. Ahead of the three 
lions, the ground rose up even higher, 
into a bare, sandy mound dotted with 
small shadowy holes. As Swiftcub 
watched, a small nose and whiskers 
poked out, testing the air. The meerkat 


emerged completely, stood up on its hind 
legs, and stared around. Satisfied, it 
stuck out a pink tongue and began to 
groom its chest, as more meerkats 
appeared beyond it. Growing in 
confidence, they scurried farther away 
from their burrows. 

“Careful now,” rumbled Swift. 
“They’re very quick. Go!” 

Swiftcub sprang forward, his little 
paws bounding over the ground. Still, he 
wasn’t fast enough to outpace Valor, who 
was far ahead of him already. A stab of 
disappointment spoiled his excitement, 
and suddenly it was even harder to run 
fast, but he ran grimly after his sister. 

The startled meerkats were already 
doubling back into their holes. Stubby 


tails flicked and vanished; the bigger 
leader, his round dark eyes glaring at the 
oncoming lions, was last to twist and 
dash underground. Valor’s jaws snapped 
at his tail, just missing. 

“Sky and stone!” the bigger cub 
swore, coming to a halt in a cloud of 
dust. She shook her head furiously and 
licked her jaws. “I nearly had it!” 

A rumble of laughter made Swiftcub 
turn. His father, Gallant, stood watching 
them. Swiftcub couldn’t help but feel the 
usual twinge of awe mixed in with his 
delight. Black-maned and huge, his sleek 
fur glowing golden in the sun, Gallant 
would have been intimidating if 
Swiftcub hadn’t known and loved him so 
well. Swift rose to her paws and greeted 


the great lion affectionately, rubbing his 
maned neck with her head. 

“Tt was a good attempt, Valor,” 
Gallant reassured his daughter. “What 
Swift said is true: meerkats are very 
hard to catch. You were so close—one 
day you'll be as fine a hunter as your 
mother.” He nuzzled Swift and licked 
her neck. 

“I wasn’t anywhere near it,” 
grumbled Swiftcub. “T 11 never be as fast 
as Valor.” 

“Oh, you will,” said Gallant. “Don’t 
forget, Valor’s a whole year older than 
you, my son. You’re getting bigger and 
faster every day. Be patient!” He 
stepped closer, leaning in so his great 
tawny muzzle brushed Swiftcub’s own. 


“That’s the secret to stalking, too. Learn 
patience, and one day you too will be a 
very fine hunter.” 

“I hope so,” said Swiftcub meekly. 

Gallant nuzzled him. “Don’t doubt 
yourself, my cub. You’re going to be a 
great lion and the best kind of leader: 
one who keeps his own pride safe and 
content, but puts fear into the heart of his 
strongest enemy!” 

That does sound good! Feeling much 
better, Swiftcub nodded. Gallant nipped 
affectionately at the tufty fur on top of his 
head and padded toward Valor. 

Swiftcub watched him proudly. He s 
right, of course. Father knows 
everything! And I will be a great hunter, 
I will. And a brave, strong leader— 


A tiny movement caught his eye, a 
scuttling shadow in his father’s path. 

A scorpion! 

Barely pausing to think, Swiftcub 
sprang, bowling between his father’s 
paws and almost tripping him. He 
skidded to a halt right in front of Gallant, 
snarling at the small  sand-yellow 
scorpion. It paused, curling up its barbed 
tail and raising its pincers in threat. 

“No, Swiftcub!” cried his father. 

Swiftcub swiped his paw sideways 
at the creature, catching its plated shell 
and sending it flying into the long grass. 

All four lions watched the grass, 
holding their breath, waiting for a 
furious scorpion to reemerge. But there 
was no stir of movement. It must have 


fled. Swiftcub sat back, his heart 
suddenly banging against his ribs. 

“Skies above!” Gallant laughed. 
Valor gaped, and Swift dragged her cub 
into her paws and began to lick him 
roughly. 

“Mother . . .” he protested. 

“Honestly, Swiftcub!” she scolded 
him as her tongue swept across his face. 
“Your father might have gotten a nasty 
sting from that creature—but you could 
have been killed!” 

“You’re such an idiot, little brother,” 
sighed Valor, but there was admiration in 
her eyes. 

Gallant and Swift exchanged proud 
looks. “Swift,” growled Gallant, “I do 
believe the time has come to give our 


cub his true name.” 

Swift nodded, her eyes shining. 
“Now that we know what kind of lion he 
is, I think you’ re right.” 

Gallant turned toward the acacia 
trees, his tail lashing, and gave a 
resounding roar. 

It always amazed Swiftcub that the 
pride could be lying half asleep one 
moment and alert the very next. Almost 
before Gallant had finished roaring his 
summons, there was a rustle of grass, a 
crunch of paws on dry earth, and the rest 
of Gallantpride appeared, ears pricked 
and eyes bright with curiosity. Gallant 
huffed in greeting, and the twenty 
lionesses and young lions of his pride 
spread out in a circle around him, 


watching and listening intently. 

Gallant looked down again at 
Swiftcub, who blinked and glanced 
away, suddenly rather shy. “Crouch 
down,” murmured the great lion. 

When he obeyed, Swiftcub felt his 
father’s huge paw rest on his head. 

“Henceforth,” declared Gallant, 
“this cub of mine will no longer be 
known as Swiftcub. He faced a 
dangerous foe without hesitation and 
protected his pride. His name, now and 
forever, is Fearless Gallantpride.” 

It was done so quickly, Swiftcub felt 
dizzy with astonishment. 7 have my 
name! I’m Fearless. Fearless 
Gallantpride! 

All around him, his whole family 


echoed his name, roaring their approval. 
Their deep cries resonated across the 
grasslands. 

“Fearless Gallantpride!” 

“Welcome, Fearless, son of 
Gallant!” 





Back Ads 


ENTER THE 


RAVELANDS 


Heed the call of the wild in this 


action-packed series from Erin Hunter. 


www. bravelandsbooks.com 





VWARRIORS: A VISION OF SHADOWS 


A ViStON OF SHADOWS 





Alderpaw, son of Bramblestar and Squirrelflight, 
must embark on a treacherous journey 
to save the Clans from a mysterious threat. 








www. warriorcats.com 





WARRIORS : THE PROPHECIES BEGIN 







Ms 5, \ N M RS 
nS 
N A © 












In the first series, sinister perils threaten the four warrior Clans. 


Into the midst of this turmoil comes Rusty, an ordinary housecat, $ *vsilableas 


' 4 audiobooks! 
who may just be the bravest of them all. 


In the second series, follow the next generation of heroic cats 
as they set off on a quest to save the Clans from destruction. 





In the third series, Firestar’s grandchildren begin their training as warrior cats. 
Prophecy foretells that they will hold more power than any cats before them. 





HARPER 


www.warriorcats.com 


VWWARRIORS: OMEN OF THE STARS 


WVERORS 


In the fourth series, find out which ThunderClan 
apprentice will complete the prophecy. 


In this prequel series, discover how 
the warrior Clans came to be. 


HARPER 7 
www. warriorcats.com 





VUARRIORS : SUPER EDITIONS 












WARRIORS 


BLUESTAR’S 
. PROPHECY , 


WIS 


aee s 











g In | & 


J ERIN HUNTER D $ ERIN HUNTER 








Wee ARRIORS, 


veLLowranc's: TALLSTAR‘S SHE 
SECRET | e REVENGE | 


- 
+ URIN MUNTUR 


= HAWKWING'S: 7 7+ TIGERHEART'S | - 7 T -CROWPEATHER'S. 
JOURNEY š SHADOW TRIAL 


ERIN HUNTER 


These extra-long, stand-alone adventures will take 
you deep inside each of the Clans with thrilling tales 
featuring the most legendary warrior cats. 





HARPER 


www.warriorcats.com 


Wantioks 


-| re 


ERIN HUNTER 


Discover the untold stories of the warrior cats and Clans when you 
read these paperback bind-ups—or download the ebook novellas! 


Delve deeper into the Clans with these Warriors field guides. 





HARPER 


www.warriorcats.com 





About the Author 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love 
of cats and a fascination with the 
ferocity of the natural world. In addition 
to having great respect for nature in all 
its forms, Erin enjoys creating rich 
mythical explanations for animal 
behavior. She is also the author of the 
Seekers, Survivors, and Bravelands 
series. 


Discover great authors, exclusive offers, 


and more at hc.com. 


Books by Erm Hunter 


WARRIORS 


THE PROPHECIES BEGIN 


Book One: Into the Wild 
Book Two: Fire and Ice 
Book Three: Forest of Secrets 
Book Four: Rising Storm 
Book Five: A Dangerous Path 


Book Six: The Darkest Hour 


THE NEW PROPHECY 


Book One: Midnight 
Book Two: Moonrise 
Book Three: Dawn 
Book Four: Starlight 
Book Five: Twilight 
Book Six: Sunset 


POWER OF THREE 


Book One: The Sight 
Book Two: Dark River 
Book Three: Outcast 
Book Four: Eclipse 
Book Five: Long Shadows 
Book Six: Sunrise 


OMEN OF THE STARS 


Book One: The Fourth Apprentice 
Book Two: Fading Echoes 
Book Three: Night Whispers 
Book Four: Sign of the Moon 
Book Five: The Forgotten Warrior 
Book Six: The Last Hope 


DAWN OF THE CLANS 


Book One: The Sun Trail 
Book Two: Thunder Rising 
Book Three: The First Battle 
Book Four: The Blazing Star 
Book Five: A Forest Divided 
Book Six: Path of Stars 


A VISION OF SHADOWS 


Book One: The Apprentices Quest 
Book Two: Thunder and Shadow 
Book Three: Shattered Sky 
Book Four: Darkest Night 
Book Five: River of Fire 


ExpLORE tbe 


WORLO 


Warriors Super Edition: Firestar 5 
Quest 
Warriors Super Edition: Bluestar s 
Prophecy 


Warriors Super Edition: SkyClan’s 


Destiny 
Warriors Super Edition: Crookedstar 8 
Promise 
Warriors Super Edition: Yellowfang ’s 
Secret 
Warriors Super Edition: Tallstar 5 
Revenge 
Warriors Super Edition: Bramblestar s 
Storm 
Warriors Super Edition: Moth Flight s 
Vision 
Warriors Super Edition: Hawkwing s 
Journey 
Warriors Super Edition: Tigerheart’s 
Shadow 


Warriors Field Guide: Secrets of the 
Clans 


Warriors: Cats of the Clans 
Warriors: Code of the Clans 
Warriors: Battles of the Clans 
Warriors: Enter the Clans 
Warriors: The Ultimate Guide 
Warriors: The Untold Stories 
Warriors: Tales from the Clans 
Warriors: Shadows of the Clans 
Warriors: Legends of the Clans 


MANGA 


The Lost Warrior 
Warrior s Refuge 
Warrior s Return 
The Rise of Scourge 
Tigerstar and Sasha #1: Into the Woods 
Tigerstar and Sasha #2: Escape from 


the Forest 
Tigerstar and Sasha #3: Return to the 
Clans 
Ravenpaw’s Path #1: Shattered Peace 
Ravenpaw’s Path #2: A Clan in Need 
Ravenpaw’s Path #3: The Heart of a 
Warrior 
and the Stranger #1: The Rescue 
SkyClan and the Stranger #2: Beyond 
the Code 
SkyClan and the Stranger #3: After the 
Flood 


NOVELLAS 


Hollyleaf s Story 
Mistystar s Omen 
Cloudstar s Journey 


Tigerclaw’s Fury 
Leafpools Wish 
Dovewing s Silence 
Mapleshades Vengeance 
Goosefeather s Curse 
Ravenpaw’s Farewell 
Spottedleaf s Heart 
Pinestar s Choice 
Thunderstar s Echo 


SHEERS 


Book One: The Quest Begins 
Book Two: Great Bear Lake 


Book Three: Smoke Mountain 
Book Four: The Last Wilderness 
Book Five: Fire in the Sky 
Book Six: Spirits in the Stars 


RETURN TO THE WILD 


Book One: Island of Shadows 
Book Two: The Melting Sea 
Book Three: River of Lost Bears 
Book Four: Forest of Wolves 
Book Five: The Burning Horizon 
Book Six: The Longest Day 


MANGA 


Toklo s Story 
Kallik’s Adventure 


SURVIVORS 


Book One: The Empty City 
Book Two: A Hidden Enemy 
Book Three: Darkness Falls 
Book Four: The Broken Path 
Book Five: The Endless Lake 
Book Six: Storm of Dogs 


THE GATHERING 


DARKNESS 
Book One: A Pack Divided 
Book Two: Dead of Night 
Book Three: Into the Shadows 


Book Four: Red Moon Rising 
Book Five: The Exile s Journey 
Survivors: Tales from the Packs 


NOVELLAS 


Alphas Tale 
Sweet s Journey 
Moon 5 Choice 


RAVELAND 


ANTAV EN AO DNE ANE DO AE DO E A. 


Book One: Broken Pride 
Book Two: Code of Honor 


Copyright 


WARRIORS SUPER EDITION: CROWFEATHER’S 
TRIAL. Copyright © 2018 by Working Partners 
Limited. All rights reserved under International 
and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By 
payment of the required fees, you have been 
granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable right 
to access and read the text of this e-book on- 
screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, 
transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse- 
engineered, or stored in or introduced into any 
information storage and retrieval system, in any 
form or by any means, whether electronic or 
mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, 


without the express written permission of 
HarperCollins e-books. 


www.harpercollinschildrens.com 


Series created by Working Partners Limited 
Map art © 2018 by Dave Stevenson 
Interior art © 2018 by Owen Richardson 


Cover art by Owen Richardson 
Series cover design by Ellice M. Lee 





Library of Congress Control Number: 
2018945995 
Digital Edition AUGUST 2018 ISBN: 978-0- 
06-269879-7 
Print ISBN: 978-0-06-269876-6 (trade bdg.) 
ISBN 978-0-06-269877-3 (lib. bdg.) 





18 19 20 21 22 CGLSCH 1098765 


FIRST EDITION 


About the Publisher 


Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. 
Ltd. 

Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 


www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd 
Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower 
22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor 


Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
M5H 4E3 


www.harpercollins.ca 


India 
HarperCollins India 
A75, Sector 57 
Noida 
Uttar Pradesh 201 301 


www.harpercollins.co.in 


New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 
Rosedale 0632 
Auckland, New Zealand 


www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
1 London Bridge Street 
London SE1 9GF, UK 


www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
195 Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 


www.harpercollins.com 


