

PROLOGUE 


The full moon floated in the sky, shedding its cold 
light over the forest. A faint breeze murmured through 
the leaves of four massive oak trees; dappled light and 
shadow moved over the pelts of many cats as they 
slipped into the hollow below. 

A muscular, bracken-colored tomcat emerged from 
the bushes that lined the sides of the hollow. He 
bounded across the clearing and leaped to the top of 
the great rock that stood in the center. 

Three other cats were waiting there. One of them, a 
she-cat with a brown tabby pelt, dipped her head in 
greeting. “Welcome, Redstar,’ she meowed. “How’s 
the prey running in ThunderClan?” 

“We've plenty, thank you, Birchstar,’ the 
ThunderClan leader replied. “Is all well in RiverClan?” 

Before Birchstar could reply, one of the other 
leaders interrupted, scraping his claws on the harsh 
surface of the rock. His gray-black pelt was a shadow 
in the moonlight. “It’s time this Gathering started,” he 
rasped. “We’re wasting time.” 


“We can’t start yet, Swiftstar,’ the fourth cat 
mewed. Her creamy brown pelt held the frosty 
shimmer of starlight. “We’re not all here.” 

Swiftstar let out an impatient snort. “WindClan have 
better things to do than sit about waiting for cats who 
can’t be bothered to come at the proper time.” 

“Look!” Redstar pointed with his tail toward the top 
of the hollow. The shape of a cat was outlined against 
the pale moonlight. He stood motionless for a 
heartbeat, then waved his tail and vanished into the 
bushes. More cats followed him, pouring over the rim 
of the hollow, the branches rustling as they streamed 
down the slope. 

“There!” Dawnstar mewed. “SkyClan are here at 
last.” 

“About time, too,” Swiftstar muttered. “Cloudstar!” 
he called as the first cat emerged into the clearing. 
“What kept you?” 

The SkyClan leader was small for a tomcat, with a 
lithe body and a neat, well-shaped head. His fur was 
pale gray, with white patches like clouds. He didn’t 
reply to Swiftstar’s question, but thrust his way through 
the cats until he reached the rock and sprang up to join 


the other leaders. 

Behind him, more and more cats were emerging 
from the bushes. A group of young apprentices 
ventured out, bunched together, their eyes wide with a 
mixture of fear and excitement. They were followed 
by the Clan’s elders, some of them limping, one leaning 
heavily on the shoulder of a warrior. Two she-cats 
each carried a tiny kit in her jaws; several older kits 
stumbled wearily beside them. The remaining warriors 
circled them protectively. 

“Great StarClan!” Swiftstar exclaimed. “Cloudstar, 
any cat would think you’d brought your whole Clan to 
the Gathering.” 

Cloudstar steadily met the WindClan leader’s 
puzzled gaze. “Yes,” he mewed, “I have.” 

“Why in the name of StarClan did you do that?” 
Birchstar asked. 

“Because we can no longer live in our territory,” the 
SkyClan leader told her. “Twolegs have destroyed it.” 

“What?” Redstar stepped forward. “My patrols 
have reported more Twolegs in your territory, and 
noise from monsters, but they can’t possibly have 
destroyed it all.” 


“They have.” Cloudstar stared across the clearing, 
as if he were seeing something else in place of the 
moon-washed bushes. “They came with huge 
monsters that pushed over our trees and churned up 
the earth. All our prey is dead or frightened off. The 
monsters are crouched around our camp now, waiting 
to pounce. SkyClan’s home has gone.” Turning to the 
other leaders, he went on. “I have brought my Clan 
here to ask your help. You must give us some of your 
territories.” 

Yowls of protest rose from the cats below the rock. 
At the edge of the clearing the SkyClan cats huddled 
together with the strongest warriors on the outside, as 
if they were braced for an attack. 

Swiftstar was the first to reply. “You can’t just walk 
in here and ask for our territory. We can barely feed 
our own Clans as it is.” 

Redstar shifted his paws uneasily. “The prey is 
running well now in greenleaf, but what’s going to 
happen when leaf-fall comes? ThunderClan won’t be 
able to spare any then.” 

“Nor will ShadowClan,’” Dawnstar meowed, rising 
from her place on the edge of the rock and facing 


Cloudstar with a challenge in her green eyes. “My 
Clan is bigger than any other. We need every pawstep 
of ground to feed our own cats.” 

Cloudstar’s gaze flicked to the only leader who 
hadn’t spoken. “Birchstar? What do you think?” 

‘Td like to help,” the RiverClan leader mewed. “I 
really would. But the river is very low and it’s harder 
than ever to catch enough fish. Besides, SkyClan cats 
don’t know how to fish.” 

“Exactly,” Swiftstar added. “And only WindClan 
cats are fast enough to catch rabbits and birds on the 
moors. There’s certainly nowhere in our territory 
where you could make a camp. You’d soon get tired of 
sleeping under gorse bushes.” 

“Then what is my Clan supposed to do?” Cloudstar 
mewed quietly. 

Silence spread over the clearing as if every cat 
were holding its breath. Redstar broke it with a single 
word. 

“Leave.” 

“That’s right.” There was a hint of a snarl in 
Swiftstar’s meow. “Leave the forest and find 
yourselves another place, far enough away that you 


can’t steal our prey.” 

A young black-and-silver she-cat rose to her paws 
in the clearing below. “Swiftstar,’ she called, “as your 
medicine cat, I can tell you that StarClan won’t be 
pleased if the rest of us drive out SkyClan. There have 
always been five Clans in the forest.” 

Swiftstar looked down at his medicine cat. “You say 
you know the will of StarClan, Larkwing, but can you 
tell me why the moon is still shining? If StarClan didn’t 
agree that SkyClan should leave the forest, they would 
send clouds to cover the sky.” 

Larkwing shook her head, unable to answer her 
leader’s question. 

Cloudstar’s eyes stretched wide with disbelief. “Five 
Clans have lived in this forest for longer than any cat 
can remember. Doesn’t that mean anything to you?” 

“Things change,” Redstar replied. “Is it possible that 
the will of StarClan has changed also? StarClan gave 
each Clan the skills they need to survive in their own 
territory. RiverClan cats swim well. ThunderClan are 
good at stalking prey in the undergrowth. SkyClan cats 
can leap into trees because there’s not much cover in 
their territory. Doesn’t this mean that each Clan 


couldn’t live in another Clan’s territory?” 

A thin tomcat with rumpled black fur rose from 
where he sat at the base of the Great Rock. “You keep 
saying that StarClan wants five Clans in the forest, but 
are you sure that’s true? There are four oaks here at 
Fourtrees. That could be a sign that there should be 
only four Clans.” 

“SkyClan don’t belong here,” hissed a silver tabby 
beside him. “Let’s drive them out now.” 

The SkyClan warriors bristled as one, unsheathing 
long, curved claws. 

“Stop!” Cloudstar called. “Warriors of SkyClan, we 
are not cowards, but this is a battle we cannot win. We 
have seen tonight what the warrior code is worth. 
From now on we will be alone, and we will depend on 
no cat but ourselves.” 

He leaped down from the Great Rock and 
shouldered a path through his warriors until he came 
face-to-face with a beautiful light brown tabby. Two 
tiny kits were mewling pitifully at her paws. 

“Cloudstar.” The she-cat’s voice was a murmur of 
distress. “Our kits are too small to make a long 
journey. [ll stay here with them, if any Clan will have 


33 


us. 

Kestrelwing, the ThunderClan medicine cat, pushed 
his way between two SkyClan warriors, ignoring their 
snarls, and bent his head to sniff the kits. “You will all 
be welcome in ThunderClan.” 

“Are you sure?” Cloudstar challenged him. “After 
what your leader said to us today?” 

“I believe my leader was wrong,’ Kestrelwing 
meowed. “But he won’t condemn helpless kits to die. 
They will have a future in ThunderClan, and so will 
you, Birdflight.” 

The light brown cat dipped her head. “Thank you.” 
She turned to Cloudstar, sorrow brimming in her amber 
eyes. “Then this is good-bye.” 

“Birdflight, no.” The SkyClan leader looked 
horrified. “How can I leave you?” 

“You must.” Birdflight’s voice quavered. “Our Clan 
needs you, but our kits need me just now.” 

Cloudstar bowed his head. ‘PI wait for you,” he 
whispered. “Ill wait for you forever.” He pressed his 
muzzle against Birdflight’s side. “Stay with 
Kestrelwing. He’ll find warriors to help carry the kits 
back to ThunderClan’s camp.” To the ThunderClan 


medicine cat, he added, “Take care of them.” 

Kestrelwing nodded. “Of course.” 

With a last anguished look at his mate, Cloudstar 
signaled with his tail to the rest of his Clan. “Follow 
me.” 

He led the way toward the slope, but before he 
could plunge into the bushes Redstar called from the 
top of the Great Rock, “May StarClan go with you!” 

Cloudstar turned and fixed a cold gaze on the cat he 
had once called friend. “StarClan may go where they 
please,” he hissed. “They have betrayed SkyClan. 
From this day on, I will have nothing more to do with 
our warrior ancestors.” He ignored the gasps of shock 
around him, some from his own Clan. “StarClan 
allowed the Twolegs to destroy our home. They look 
down on us now, and let the moon go on shining while 
you drive us out. They said there would always be five 
Clans in the forest, but they lied. SkyClan will never 
look to the stars again.” 

With a last flick of his tail he vanished into the 
bushes, and the rest of his Clan followed. 


CHAPTER 1 


Firestar slid around the edge of a hazel thicket and 
paused to taste the air. The moon was nearly full, and 
he could see that he was close to where the stream 
followed the border with ShadowClan. He could hear 
its faint gurgling, and picked up traces of the 
ShadowClan scent markers. 

The flame-colored tomcat allowed himself a soft 
purr of satisfaction. He had been leader of 
ThunderClan for three seasons, and he felt as if he 
knew every tree, every bramble bush, every tiny path 
left by mice and voles throughout his territory. Since 
the fearsome battle when the forest Clans had joined 
together to drive out BloodClan and their murderous 
leader, Scourge, there had been peace, and the long 
days of newleaf and greenleaf had brought plentiful 
prey. 

But Firestar knew that somewhere in the tranquil 
night an attacker was lurking. He made himself 
concentrate, all his senses alert. He caught the scent 
of mouse and rabbit, the green scent of grass and 


leaves, and very faintly the reek of the distant 
Thunderpath. But there was something else. 
Something he couldn’t identify. 

He raised his head, drawing the breeze over his 
scent glands. At the same instant, a clump of bracken 
waved wildly, and a dark shape erupted from the 
middle of the curling fronds. Startled, Firestar spun to 
face it, but before he could raise his paws to defend 
himself the shape landed heavily on his shoulders, 
knocking him to the ground. 

Summoning all his strength, Firestar rolled onto his 
back and brought up his hind paws to thrust his 
attacker away. Above him he could make out broad, 
muscular shoulders, a massive head with dark tabby 
markings, the glint of amber eyes.... 

Firestar gritted his teeth and battered even harder 
with his hind paws. A forepaw lashed out toward him 
and he flinched, waiting for the strike. 

Suddenly the weight that pinned him down vanished 
as the tabby cat sprang away with a yowl of triumph. 
“You didn’t know I was there, did you?” he meowed. 
“Go on, Firestar, admit it. You had no idea.” 

Firestar staggered to his paws, shaking grass seeds 


and scraps of moss from his pelt. “Bramblepaw, you 
great lump! You’ve squashed me as flat as a leaf.” 

“I know.” Bramblepaw’s eyes gleamed. “If you’d 
really been a ShadowClan invader, you would be crow- 
food by now.” 

“So I would.” Firestar touched his apprentice on the 
shoulder with the tip of his tai. “You did very well, 
especially disguising your scent like that.” 

“I rolled in a clump of damp ferns as soon as I left 
camp,” Bramblepaw explained. He suddenly looked 
anxious. “Was my assessment okay, Firestar?” 

Firestar hesitated, struggling to push away the 
memory of Bramblepaw’s bloodthirsty father, 
Tigerstar. When he looked at the young apprentice, it 
was too easy to recall the same broad shoulders, dark 
tabby fur, and amber eyes that belonged to the cat who 
had been ready to murder and betray his own 
Clanmates to make himself leader. 

“Firestar?” Bramblepaw prompted. 

Firestar shook off the clinging cobwebs of the past. 
“Yes, Bramblepaw, of course. No cat could have done 
better.” 

“Thanks, Firestar!” Bramblepaw’s amber eyes 


shone and his tail went straight up in the air. As they 
turned toward the ThunderClan camp, he glanced back 
at the ShadowClan border. “Do you think Tawnypaw 
will be near the end of her apprentice training, too?” 

Bramblepaw’s sister, Tawnypaw, had been born in 
ThunderClan, but she had never felt at home there. 
She was too sensitive to the mistrust of cats who 
couldn’t forget that she was Tigerstar’s daughter. 
When her father had become leader of ShadowClan, 
she had left ThunderClan to be with him. Firestar 
always felt that he had failed her, and he knew how 
much Bramblepaw missed her. 

“I don’t know how they do these things in 
ShadowClan,” he meowed carefully, “but Tawnypaw 
started her training at the same time as you, so she 
should be ready for her warrior ceremony by now.” 

“I hope so,” Bramblepaw mewed. “I know she’ ll be 
a great warrior.” 

“You both wil,” Firestar told him. 

On their way back to camp, Firestar felt as if every 
shadowy hollow, every clump of fern or bramble 
thicket, could be hiding the gleam of amber eyes. 
Whatever Tigerstar’s crimes, he had been proud of his 


son and daughter, and his death had been particularly 
dreadful, with all nine lives ripped away at once by 
Scourge’s sharpened claws. Was the massive tabby 
watching them now? Not from StarClan, for Firestar 
had never seen him in his dreams; the ThunderClan 
medicine cat, Cinderpelt, had never reported meeting 
him when she shared tongues with StarClan, either. 
Could there be another place for coldhearted cats who 
had been ready to use the warrior code for their own 
dark ambitions? If there was such a shadowed path, 
Firestar hoped he would never have to walk it—nor his 
lively apprentice. Bramblepaw was bouncing through 
the grass beside him, excited as a kit; surely he had 
shaken off the legacy of his father? 

As they slipped down the ravine toward the camp, 
Bramblepaw halted, his gaze serious. “Was my 
assessment really okay? Am I good enough—” 

“To be a warrior?” Firestar guessed. “Yes, you are. 
We’ ll hold your ceremony tomorrow.” 

Bramblepaw dipped his head respectfully. “Thank 
you, Firestar,” he mewed. “TI won’t let you down.” His 
eyes blazed; he gave a sudden bound into the air and 
pelted down the rest of the ravine to wait by the 


entrance to the gorse tunnel. Firestar watched him, 
amused. He could still remember when he had felt as 
if he had too much energy to contain in his four paws, 
when he felt as if he could run through the forest 
forever. 

“You'd better get some sleep,’ he warned as he 
joined his apprentice. “You'll have to sit vigil tomorrow 
night.” 

“If you’re sure, Firestar...” Bramblepaw hesitated, 
working his claws in the sandy ground. “I could find 
you some fresh-kill first.” 

“No, go on,” his leader told him. “You’re so excited 
right now you wouldn’t notice if a fox ate you.” 

Bramblepaw waved his tail and bundled through the 
gorse tunnel into the camp. 

Firestar lingered outside the camp for a while, 
settling down on a flat rock with his tail curled around 
his paws. He could hear nothing but the faint rustle of 
leaves in the breeze, and the tiny scufflings of prey in 
the undergrowth. 

The battle with BloodClan had cast its shadow over 
all the Clans; for more than a season after, every cat in 
the forest jumped at a cracking twig, and chased out 


strangers as if their lives depended on it. They were 
even scared of going too close to Twolegplace, in case 
any surviving members of BloodClan happened to be 
lurking there. But now, five moons later, ThunderClan 
was thriving. Tomorrow there would be a new warrior, 
and the apprentices Rainpaw, Sootpaw, and Sorrelpaw 
were all doing well after three moons of training. In 
time, they would be good warriors too—they were 
bound to be, considermg who their father was. Every 
day they reminded Firestar of his first deputy, 
Whitestorm, who had died battlng the vicious 
BloodClan deputy, Bone. He still grieved for the old 
white warrior. 

His mind wrapped in memories of his old friend, it 
was a moment before Firestar realized he could hear a 
faint sound: the footfalls of a cat stepping lightly 
through the undergrowth. He sprang to his paws, 
looking around, but he saw nothing. 

He hardly had time to sit down before the noise 
came again. This time Firestar whipped his head 
around in time to glimpse the pale shape of a cat 
standing a little farther up the ravine. 

Am I dreaming? Has Whitestorm left StarClan to 


come and visit me? 

But this cat was smaller than Whitestorm and its fur 
was gray, patched with white. It stared straight at him, 
its eyes dark and earnest, as if it were trying to tell him 
something. Firestar had never seen it before. Could it 
be a rogue? Or worse—could BloodClan have 
recovered from their defeat and come back to invade 
the forest? 

He sprang to his paws and raced up the ravine 
toward the strange cat. But as soon as he began to 
move, it vanished, and when he searched among the 
rocks he couldn’t find it. There weren’t even any 
pawmarks, but when he tasted the air there was a faint 
trace of an unfamiliar scent, almost swamped by the 
ThunderClan scents that came from the camp. 

Slowly Firestar retraced his pawsteps and sat on the 
rock again. All his senses were alert now as he gazed 
into the shadows. But he saw nothing more of the 
strange gray cat. 


CHAPTER 2 


While he still waited to see if the cat would return, 
clouds massed above Firestar’s head, blotting out the 
stars. Huge raindrops pattered on the rocks of the 
ravine, quickly growing to a steady downpour. Firestar 
squeezed through the gorse tunnel into the camp and 
raced across the clearing to his den at the foot of the 
Highrock. 

Beyond the curtain of lichen, the den was dry. An 
apprentice had changed his bedding, piling fresh moss 
and bracken into a soft heap. Firestar shook the rain 
from his pelt and curled up, wrapping his tail over his 
nose. Rain drumming on the earth outside his den soon 
lulled him into sleep. 

The noise of the rain faded and Firestar opened his 
eyes, feeling cold to the bone. His cozy nest had 
vanished, along with the familiar scents of 
ThunderClan. He was surrounded by dense, clinging 
mist. It swirled around him, breaking up now and then 
to show stretches of desolate moorland. He could feel 
tough, springy grass beneath his paws. At first he 


thought he must be on WindClan territory; then he 
realized that he had never seen this place before. 

“Spottedleaf?” he called into the mist. “Are you 
here? Does StarClan have a message for me?” 

But there was no sign of the beautiful tortoiseshell 
who had once been ThunderClan’s medicine cat. She 
often visited Firestar in dreams, but now he couldn’t 
pick up even a trace of her sweet scent. 

Instead, he heard the faintest sound, so distant that 
he couldn’t make it out. He strained to listen, and an 
icy chill froze him from ears to tail as he heard a 
savage, wordless wailing, the dreadful sound of many 
terrified cats. He stiffened, ready to flee with them, but 
though the shrieks grew louder, all he could see were 
blurred shapes. They seemed to advance toward him 
through the mist, only to vanish before he could see 
them properly. The scent of unfamiliar cats drifted in 
the air. 

“Who are you?” he called. “What do you want?” 

But there was no reply, and soon the shrill wailing 
faded into silence. 

Firestar jumped as something prodded his side. 
Blinking awake, he saw warm yellow sunlight angling 


through the entrance of his den, shining on the pale 
ginger fur of his mate, Sandstorm. 

“Are you okay?” she asked. “You were twitching in 
your sleep.” 

Firestar let out a groan as he sat up. His muscles 
felt as stiff as if he had really been trekking over that 
barren moorland. “It was just a dream,” he muttered. 
“TIl be fine.” 

“Look, I brought you some fresh-kill.” She pushed 
the limp body of a vole toward him. “I just got back 
from a hunting patrol.” 

“Thanks.” The vole must have been freshly caught; 
its warm scent made his mouth water, and his belly felt 
hollow with hunger. Bending his head, he devoured the 
prey in a few rapid bites. 

“Better now?” Sandstorm inquired with a glint of 
mischief in her green eyes. “That’ll teach you to let 
young cats jump all over you.” 

Firestar flicked her ear with the tip of his tail; word 
of Bramblepaw’s successful assessment had obviously 
spread through the camp. “Hey, I’m not an elder yet, 
you know.” The damp shadows of his dream were 
melting away in the bright sunlight. He stepped out of 


his nest and gave himself a quick grooming. “Do you 
know if all the patrols are back yet?” 

“The last ones just came in.” A shadow fell across 
the entrance of the den, and Firestar looked up to see 
his deputy, Graystripe, standing just outside. “The 
hunting patrols caught so much prey, Thornclaw has 
taken the apprentices out to collect it. Why, did you 
want them?” 

“Not right away, but I need to know what they 
reported,” Firestar replied. He beckoned the gray 
warrior inside with his tail) Remembering the 
unfamiliar cat he had seen in the ravine the night 
before, he asked warily, “Did any of them see any sign 
of rogues in our territory?” 

Graystripe shook his head. “Not a trace. 
Everything’s peaceful out there.” His yellow eyes 
narrowed with concern. “Firestar, is something 
bothering you?” 

Firestar hesitated. His old friend knew him well 
enough to tell when something was on his mind. But he 
didn’t think this was the time to share his dream or the 
vision of the cat in the ravine. He had so little to go on; 
his solitary brooding on Tigerstar and Whitestorm could 


have made him see things in the shadows. 

“No, I’m fine,” he replied, pushing the strange gray 
cat to the back of his mind. “Bramblepaw did an 
amazing assessment last night. He jumped on me by 
the ShadowClan border. Come on,’ he meowed to 
Graystripe and Sandstorm. “TI want to hold his warrior 
ceremony as soon as the apprentices get back.” 

He led the way out of his den and leaped onto the 
Highrock. The rain had stopped; above the trees the 
sky was blue, with scudding white clouds. Sunlight 
reflected from puddles, dazzling his eyes, and the 
barrier of thorns around the camp sparkled with 
raindrops. Thornclaw was emerging from the gorse 
tunnel with his apprentice, Sootpaw, behind him, both 
cats laden with fresh-kill. Moments later Cloudtail 
appeared with Rainpaw and Sorrelpaw. 

Firestar let out a yowl. “Let all cats old enough to 
catch their own prey gather here beneath the Highrock 
for a Clan meeting.” 

Pride surged through him as he watched his Clan 
collect below the rock. The three youngest apprentices 
dashed over from the fresh-kill pile to sit near the base 
of the Highrock. They chattered excitedly, maybe 


imagining what it would be like when they became 
warriors too. Speckletail led the other elders from their 
den beside the burned-out shell of the fallen tree. 
Cinderpelt the medicine cat appeared from the fern 
tunnel that led to her den and limped across to sit 
beside Brackenfur, Willowpelt, and Mousefur. 

Firestar spotted Brightheart emerging from the 
nursery. As an apprentice, she had been injured by a 
pack of dogs, leaving one side of her face torn away. 
Now, with her belly swollen with the kits she would 
bear soon, Firestar thought she had never looked 
happier. She padded slowly across the clearing to join 
her mate, Cloudtail, near the fresh-kill pile; the white 
warrior touched her ear affectionately with his nose. 

Behind her came Ferncloud with her two kits, who 
dashed off with squeals of excitement toward the 
nearest puddle. 

“Shrewkit! Spiderkit! Come back at once,” 
Ferncloud scolded them. 

The two kits sat down at the edge of the water, but 
they kept shooting glances at their mother and dabbing 
the surface with an outstretched paw. Firestar 
watched, amused, as their father, Dustpelt, padded 


over to them, said something sternly to them, then went 
to sit by Ferncloud. Barely a heartbeat passed before a 
tiny paw flashed out again. 

“Spiderkit!” Dustpelt called, loud enough for Firestar 
to hear him. “What did I just tell you?” 

Both kits glanced at their father and then went 
scampering off, tiny tails stuck high in the air. Soon 
Shrewkit found a ball of sodden moss lying on the 
ground. Hooking it up with one paw he tossed tt at his 
brother; Spiderkit ducked, and the moss sailed over his 
head and struck Speckletail right in the chest. The 
tabby elder sprang to her paws, batting at soaking 
chest fur with one paw, and letting out a furious hiss. 
Though Speckletail could be cranky, Firestar knew she 
would never harm a kit, but Spiderkit and Shrewkit 
weren’t sure of that. They flattened themselves to the 
ground and crept backward to sit beside their mother 
and father. 

Firestar had missed the moment when Bramblepaw 
emerged from the apprentice’s den. Now he was 
approaching the base of the rock; as Firestar was his 
mentor, he was escorted to his warrior ceremony by 
Graystripe, the Clan deputy, instead. His brown tabby 


pelt was groomed to shining sleekness, and his amber 
eyes looked solemnly up at his leader. 

Firestar leaped down from the Highrock to meet 
him. Close to him, he could see that Bramblepaw’s 
serious expression hid an almost unbearable 
excitement. He realized how much this ceremony 
meant to his apprentice; had Bramblepaw sometimes 
doubted that he would ever be accepted into 
ThunderClan as a full warrior? 

Firestar summoned up the words that had been 
spoken to every apprentice in the forest for season 
upon season. “I, Firestar, leader of ThunderClan, call 
upon my warrior ancestors to look down on this 
apprentice. He has trained hard to understand the 
ways of your noble code, and I commend him to you 
as a warrior in his turn.” Meeting Bramblepaw’s gaze, 
he went on. “Bramblepaw, do you promise to uphold 
the warrior code and to protect and defend this Clan, 
even at the cost of your life?” 

“T do.” No cat could doubt how much Bramblepaw 
meant it. 

“Then by the powers of StarClan,’ Firestar 
continued, “I give you your warrior name: 


Bramblepaw, from this moment you will be known as 
Brambleclaw. StarClan honors your courage and your 
loyalty, and we welcome you as a full warrior of 
ThunderClan.” 

Brambleclaw’s eyes widened as Firestar spoke of 
his loyalty, and Firestar felt his fur prickle with the 
weight of meaning behind that word. He had never 
doubted Brambleclaw’s commitment to the warrior 
code, but he had often struggled to trust the son of 
Tigerstar. He could see a few of the other cats 
murmuring to one another, as if they too understood 
why he had chosen to mention loyalty in 
Brambleclaw’s warrior ceremony. 

Taking a pace closer, Firestar rested his muzzle on 
the top of Brambleclaw’s head. He could feel shivers 
running all through the new  warrior’s body. 
Brambleclaw licked Firestar’s shoulder in response, 
then stepped back, his eyes glowing. 

“Brambleclaw! Brambleclaw!” 

His Clanmates greeted him with his new name. In 
spite of being Tigerstar’s son, he was popular in the 
Clan, and most cats were pleased that he had become 
a warrior at last. 


Firestar took a couple of paces back, his gaze 
drifting to the puddle a couple of tail-lengths away 
where Shrewkit and Spiderkit had been playing. The 
surface had stilled since they dabbed at it, and now it 
was a shining silver disk on the ground. It was 
reflecting an odd-shaped cloud.... 

Firestar blinked. That was not a cloud. It was a 
cat’s face: a pale gray cat, with white patches on its 
fur and huge water-colored eyes, staring straight at 
him. A wisp of the same unfamiliar scent that he had 
detected in the ravine drifted around him. 

“Who are you?” Firestar whispered. “What do you 
want?” 

There was a high-pitched shriek of excitement as 
Shrewkit launched himself into the air and landed in the 
middle of the puddle, splashing every cat within reach 
and shattering the reflection into tiny fragments. 

Firestar looked up: the sky above the ravine was 
blue and cloudless. He glanced around, half- 
embarrassed, hoping that none of his Clanmates had 
seen him talking to a puddle. But as he watched the 
cats who were still crowding around Brambleclaw, he 
couldn’t get the gray cat’s face out of his mind. 


Firestar led the evening patrol as far as Tallpines 
and Twolegplace, still wary of possible trouble from 
BloodClan on that side of the territory. Night had fallen 
by the time he and his Clanmates returned. As he 
emerged into the camp from the gorse tunnel, he found 
Brambleclaw sitting alone in the middle of the clearing. 

“He must be tired out,’ Sandstorm murmured 
sympathetically. “He was out late with you last night, 
doing his assessment, and he hunted with Ashfur and 
Graystripe all afternoon.” 

“He’ll be fine,” Firestar replied. “All new warriors 
sit vigil the first night.” 

“So the rest of us can get a good night’s sleep.” 
Cloudtail, the other member of the patrol, stretched and 
yawned. 

Leaving his mate and his kin to head for the fresh- 
kill pile, Firestar strode out into the clearing toward 
Brambleclaw. “Everything okay?” he asked. 

Brambleclaw nodded; according to tradition a new 
warrior had to keep his vigil in silence. He was 
obviously bursting with pride, and taking his new 
responsibilities very seriously. 


“Good,” mewed Firestar. “Don’t hesitate to fetch 
me if there’s trouble.” 

Brambleclaw nodded again, and fixed his gaze on 
the entrance to the thorn tunnel. Firestar left him there 
and returned to his den. He curled up in his nest, but 
the moment he closed his eyes he found himself back 
on the mist-covered moorland, with the wails of cats 
shivering in his ears. No! He could not spend another 
night listening helplessly to their terror. 

Struggling back to wakefulness, Firestar stumbled 
out into the clearing again. Brambleclaw still sat in 
solitary vigil, while Sandstorm was heading across the 
clearmg toward the warriors’ den. As soon as she 
spotted Firestar she veered aside to join him. 

“Is anything the matter?” she asked. “Can’t you 
sleep?” 

“I feel restless, that’s al,” Firestar replied, reluctant 
to tell even Sandstorm about the dream. “I’m going for 
a walk.” Suddenly longing for the warmth of her 
company, he added, “Do you want to come with me?” 

He was sure his desperation must have shown in his 
eyes, but Sandstorm just nodded. She crossed the 
camp beside him and followed him out through the 


gorse tunnel. Without consciously deciding, Firestar 
turned his paws toward Sunningrocks, the tumble of 
smooth gray boulders beside the river that divided 
ThunderClan territory from RiverClan. 

They climbed one of the rocks and sat side by side, 
watching the water whisper past, dappled with 
starlight. 

After a moment, Sandstorm broke the silence. “Are 
you worried about Brambleclaw? About whether you 
were right to make him a warrior?” 

Her question surprised Firestar. Did his Clanmates 
think he still distrusted Brambleclaw because of who 
his father was? The surprise was followed by a sense 
of guilt that they were so close to being right. 

“No,” he answered, trying to make his voice firm. 
“Brambleclaw is not the same cat as his father.” 

To his relief, Sandstorm didn’t push him to tell her 
what was really on his mind. She just leaned her head 
on his shoulder; her scent wreathed around him as they 
gazed together at the river of reflected starlight. 

Firestar knew that her touch should have comforted 
him, but he couldn’t get the wailing of terrified cats out 
of his head, or forget the reflection he had seen in the 


puddle. He stared down at the river, at the ruffled 
water spilling around half-covered rocks...no, they 
weren’t rocks, he realized, his pelt bristling with fear. 
They were cats, desperately swimming cats, churning 
the water with their paws, their drenched bodies 
dragged by the swirling current. 

He blinked, and the vision was gone. All he could 
see was the river sliding past on its endless journey, 
with the shivering starlight trapped in its depths. 

Great StarClan! he thought. Whats happening to 
me? 


CHAPTER 3 


Though Firestar didnt dream again that night, he 
slept badly, and he still felt tired when he emerged 
from his den the next morning. He blinked in the strong 
sunlight to see Ashfur padding across the clearing 
toward Brambleclaw. “Your vigil’s over,’ Firestar 
heard him meow. “Come on; PI find you somewhere 
to sleep.” 

They disappeared into the warriors’ den while 
Firestar crossed the clearing and slipped down the fern 
tunnel that led to Cinderpelt’s den. 

The gray-furred medicine cat was sitting outside the 
cleft in the rock, turning over some herbs with one 
paw. Brightheart sat beside her and bent her head 
forward to give the leaves an interested sniff. 

“This is borage,” Cinderpelt explained. “You should 
start eating some now, so when your kits come you'll 
have plenty of milk.” 

Brightheart licked the herbs up, making a face as 
she swallowed them. “They taste as bitter as mouse 
bile. But I don’t mind,” she added hastily. “I want to do 


my best for my kits.” 

“Yow ll be fine,’ Cinderpelt assured her. “Come 
back every morning for some more herbs, and call me 
right away if you think the kits are coming. I don’t 
think itll be long now.” 

“Thanks, Cinderpelt.” Brightheart dipped her head 
to the medicine cat and padded across the clearing, 
passing Firestar at the end of the tunnel. 

“Make sure you get plenty of rest,’ he meowed as 
she made her way back into the main camp. 

Cinderpelt dusted a few scraps of borage from her 
paws and limped into the clearing to meet Firestar. 
Once she had been his apprentice, but an accident 
beside the Thunderpath had injured her leg and made it 
impossible for her to be a warrior. Firestar knew how 
hard it had been for her to give up the future she had 
always dreamed of; he still blamed himself for not 
taking better care of her. 

“Cinderpelt, I have to talk to you,” he began. 

Before the medicine cat could reply, a wail sounded 
from behind Firestar. “Cinderpelt! Look at my paw!” 

“Great StarClan, what now?” the medicine cat 
muttered. 


Sorrelpaw, the smallest of the apprentices, lurched 
into the clearing on three legs, holding out her forepaw. 
“Look, Cinderpelt!” 

The medicine cat bent her head to examine the paw. 
Firestar could see that a thorn was driven deep into the 
pad. 

“Honestly, Sorrelpaw,” Cinderpelt mewed, “from the 
noise you were making I thought a fox must have 
bitten your paw off. It’s only a thorn.” 

“But it hurts!” the apprentice protested, her amber 
eyes wide. 

Cinderpelt tutted. “Lie down and hold your paw 
out.” 

Firestar watched as the medicine cat expertly 
gripped the shank of the thorn in her teeth and tugged 
it out. A gush of blood followed it. 

“It’s bleeding!” Sorrelpaw exclaimed. 

“So it is,’ Cinderpelt agreed calmly. “Give it a good 
lick.” 

“Every cat picks up thorns now and again,” Firestar 
told the apprentice as her tongue rasped busily across 
her pad. “You'll probably pick up a good many more 
before you’re an elder.” 


“I know.” Sorrelpaw sprang to her paws again. 
“Thanks, Cinderpelt. It’s fine now, so PI go back to 
the others. We’re training in the sandy hollow.” Her 
eyes shone and she flexed her claws. “Sandstorm’s 
going to show me how to fight foxes!” 

Without waiting for a response she charged off 
down the fern tunnel. 

Cinderpelt’s blue eyes gleamed. “Sandstorm’s got 
her paws full with that one,” she commented. 

“You’ve got your paws full yourself,’ meowed 
Firestar. “Is it always this busy?” 

“Busy is good,” Cinderpelt replied. “Just as long as 
there’s no blood being spilled. It’s great, being able to 
use my skills to care for my Clan.” 

Her eyes shone with enthusiasm, and once again 
Firestar was reminded of the apprentice she had been. 
What a warrior she would have made! But her 
accident had diverted all her energy, like a clear, 
sparkling stream, into the path of a medicine cat. 

“Okay, Firestar,” she prompted. “You’re busy too, so 
you haven’t come here just to gossip. What can I do 
for you?” 

Twitching her ears for Firestar to follow her, she 


made her way to the cleft in the rock and began to put 
away the remaining stems of borage. Firestar sat 
beside her, suddenly reluctant to tell any cat about the 
strange visions he had seen. 

‘Tve been having these dreams....” 

Cinderpelt shot him a swift glance; usually only 
medicine cats received dreams from StarClan, but she 
had learned long ago that their warrior ancestors came 
to Firestar too. 

“It wasn’t a dream from StarClan,” Firestar went 
on. “At least, I don’t think it was.” He described the 
mist-shrouded moorland where the desperate wailing 
of cats had surrounded him. He couldn’t bring himself 
to tell Cinderpelt about the pale gray cat he had seen in 
the ravine when he was awake, or the reflection in the 
puddle and the cats struggling in the river. They could 
be explained away too easily: odd cloud formations, 
tricks of the light, or the pattern of starlight in the dark 
water. 

Cinderpelt finished tidying the herbs and came to sit 
beside him, her eyes thoughtful. “You’ve had this 
dream twice?” 

“That’s right.” 


“Then I think it’s more than a tough bit of fresh-kill 
stuck in your belly.” She blinked several times and 
added, “That many cats could only belong to a Clan... 
and you’re sure it wasn’t WindClan?” 

“Positive. The moor wasn’t anywhere in WindClan 
territory, I’m sure of it, and I didn’t recognize any of 
the voices. Besides, there’s been no report of trouble in 
WindClan.” 

Cinderpelt nodded. “And none in any of the other 
Clans, either. Do you think you’re remembering the 
battle with BloodClan?” 

“No, Cinderpelt, what I heard wasn’t battle yowling. 
It was cats wailing as if something was terribly 
wrong.” Firestar shuddered. “I wanted to help them, 
but I didn’t know what to do.” 

Cinderpelt brushed her tail across his shoulder. “I 
could give you some poppyseed,” she suggested. “At 
least that would give you a good night’s sleep.” 

“Thanks, but no. It’s not sleep I want. It’s an 
explanation.” 

Cinderpelt didn’t look surprised. “That’s something I 
can’t give you, not right now,” she meowed. “But PI 
let you know if StarClan show me anything. And be 


sure to come and tell me if you have any more 
dreams.” 

Firestar wasn’t certain he wanted to do that. 
Cinderpelt had enough to keep her busy without 
worrying about him. “I’m probably making a fuss about 
nothing,” he told her. “I’m sure the dreams will go 
away if I stop thinking about them.” 

He hadn’t managed to convince himself, and as he 
padded away through the fern tunnel with the medicine 
cat’s pale blue gaze following him, he was sure that he 
hadn’t convinced Cinderpelt, either. 


On the second night after his talk with Cinderpelt, 
Firestar had the dream again. He stood on the pathless 
moorland, straining to make out the blurred shapes that 
were all around him, yet never close enough to see 
clearly. 

“What do you want?” he called. “What can I do to 
help you?” 

But there was no reply. Firestar was beginning to 
feel as if he were doomed to stumble across this mist- 
shrouded moor forever, calling out to cats who could 


not or would not hear him. 

The sun had risen high above the trees when he 
woke the next morning. A warm wind ruffled his fur as 
he stepped out into the clearing. Sootpaw was hurrying 
across the clearing with a huge ball of fresh moss for 
the elders’ bedding. Ferncloud and Brightheart were 
sunning themselves at the entrance to the nursery, 
watching Shrewkit and Spiderkit play-fighting. 

Firestar stiffened at the sound of high-pitched 
caterwaulng coming from outside the camp. 
Somewhere close by, a cat was in terrible distress. 
Had his dream followed him into the waking world? Or 
was he still asleep, trapped in the same dream? 

He forced his legs to carry him over to the gorse 
tunnel. But before he reached the entrance to the 
camp, Cloudtail and Brackenfur appeared, supporting 
Longtail, whose jaws were stretched wide, letting out 
loud wails of anguish. Cloudtail’s apprentice, Rainpaw, 
followed them into the camp, his fur bristling with 
shock. 

Longtail’s eyes were closed; blood welled from 
beneath the swollen lids and spattered over his pale 
tabby fur. “I can’t see! I can’t see!” he wailed. 


“What happened?” Firestar demanded. 

“We were out hunting,’ Brackenfur explained. 
“Longtail caught a rabbit, and it turned on him and 
scratched his eyes.” 

“Don’t worry,” Cloudtail reassured Longtail. “We’ll 
get you to Cinderpelt right away. She’ ll fix you up.” 

Firestar followed them as they guided Longtail 
across the clearing and through the tunnel of ferns. 
Cloudtail called for Cinderpelt, who appeared from the 
cleft in the rock and limped rapidly to Longtail’s side. 
“How did this happen?” 

Brackenfur repeated what he had told Firestar, 
while Cinderpelt rested her tail gently on Longtail’s 
shoulder. 

The tabby warrior’s wailing had died away into 
shallow, rasping breaths. He was shivering violently. “I 
can’t see,” he whispered. “Cinderpelt, am I going to be 
blind?” 

“I can’t tell until I’ve examined your eyes,” 
Cinderpelt replied. Firestar knew she wouldn’t try to 
comfort Longtail with a lie. “Come over here and sit 
down in the ferns where I can get a proper look at 


5% 


you. 


She led him to a clump of bracken just outside the 
opening to her den. Longtail slumped onto his side, still 
panting hard. 

“Rainpaw, bring me some moss soaked in water,” 
Cinderpelt directed, “as fast as you can.” The 
apprentice glanced at his mentor, and when Cloudtail 
nodded he sped off, leaving the ferns of the tunnel 
waving behind him. “The rest of you can go,” the 
medicine cat added, “and let Longtail have a bit of 
peace and quiet.” 

Cloudtail and Brackenfur turned to leave, but 
Firestar padded over to Cinderpelt, who was calming 
Longtail with one paw stroking his flank. 

“Is there anything I can do?” he asked. 

“Just go with the others and let me get on with it,” 
Cinderpelt replied, her tart tones reminding Firestar of 
her mentor, Yellowfang. As Firestar turned away, she 
added, “Oh, you might ask Cloudtail to let me have 
Rainpaw for the rest of the day. An apprentice to fetch 
and carry would be useful.” 

“Good idea,” Firestar replied. “PI tell him.” 

His heart was torn with pity for Longtail. The tabby 
warrior had challenged Firestar when he first arrived in 


the forest, and he had been far too close to Tigerstar. 
But when the murderous deputy’s plans became clear, 
Longtail had realized where his true loyalties lay, and 
since then he had become one of Firestar’s most 
trusted warriors. 

When Firestar reached the clearing he saw Cloudtail 
and Brackenfur standing with Brightheart, who was 
anxiously questioning them. Mousefur and Graystripe 
had come out of the warriors’ den to find out what was 
going on. 

Firestar padded over to Cloudtail and passed on 
Cinderpelt’s request about Rainpaw. 

“Sure,” the white warrior meowed. “It’s all good 
training for Rainpaw, anyway.” 

“What’s going to happen to Longtail?” Brightheart 
fretted. “Will he really go blind?” 

“Cinderpelt doesn’t know yet,’ Firestar replied. 
“Let’s hope the damage isn’t as bad as it looks.” 

“I was lucky,’ Brightheart murmured, half to 
herself. “At least I’ve still got one eye.” 

Glancing around at their troubled faces, Firestar 
tried to give them something else to think about. “What 
about the hunting patrol?” he asked Cloudtail and 


Brackenfur. “You'd better carry on, and I’ll come with 
you. Whatever happens, the Clan still needs to be fed.” 

‘TIl lead another,” Graystripe offered. “Mousefur, 
are you up for it?” 

The wiry brown warrior nodded, lashing her tail. ‘T1 
fetch Dustpelt,” she meowed. 

As she loped off toward the warriors’ den, Firestar 
cast a final glance back at the fern tunnel. Everything 
was quiet now in Cinderpelt’s clearing. “Oh, StarClan,” 
he whispered, “don’t let Longtail lose his sight.” 


That night Firestar was too restless to settle in his 
den. He was afraid the dream would return. He had 
come to dread the unknown moorland and the cries of 
distress from cats he had no power to help. 

As he paced the clearing, he heard a murmuring 
sound coming from Cinderpelt’s den, and brushed 
through the fern tunnel to find out what it was. Longtail 
lay in the ferns outside the split rock. His eyes were 
closed, but he looked too tense to be asleep. Sticky 
tears seeped from beneath his eyelids. 

Cinderpelt sat beside him, stroking his forehead 


lightly with the tip of her tail, murmuring to him words 
of comfort that a mother might use to soothe an injured 
kit. She glanced up as Firestar appeared. 

“Shouldn’t you be resting?” he asked. 

Her blue eyes glinted in the moonlight. “I could ask 
you the same thing.” 

Firestar shrugged and went to sit beside her. “T 
couldn’t sleep. How’s Longtail?” 

“I’m not sure.” Cinderpelt dabbed up a pawful of 
chewed-up herbs from a leaf beside her and patted 
them gently onto Longtail’s eyes. Firestar recognized 
the sharp scent of marigold. “The bleeding has 
stopped, thank StarClan,” the medicine cat went on, 
“but his eyes are still very swollen.” 

“Firestar.” Longtail raised his head, though he kept 
his eyes shut tight. “What will happen to me if I go 
blind? If I can’t be a warrior anymore?” 

“Don’t worry about that,” Firestar mewed firmly. 
“Whatever happens, there’ ll always be a place for you 
in ThunderClan.” 

Longtail let out a long sigh and lowered his head 
again. Firestar thought he had relaxed a little, and 
hoped he would be able to sleep. 


“Listen, Firestar.” Cinderpelt dabbed some more of 
the marigold poultice onto Longtail’s eyes as she 
spoke. “As your medicine cat, I’m telling you to get 
some rest.” More quietly, she added, “Your dream isn’t 
going to go away; you know that as well as I do. You 
need to find out what it means, and the only way to do 
that is to dream it over and over until you figure it out.” 

Firestar hesitated; he wasn’t sure he agreed. 
Dreaming hadn’t told him much so far. “All right,” he 
mewed reluctantly. “But if StarClan are trying to tell 
me something, I wish they would make it clearer.” 

Obeying Cinderpelt, he padded back to his den. But 
this time he slept without dreaming at all. 

Early the next morning he went back to the 
medicine cat’s den, taking her a squirrel from the 
fresh-kill pile. He found Cinderpelt still sitting beside 
Longtail, who was curled up asleep. 

“Have you been here all night?” Firestar asked, 
dropping the squirrel at Cinderpelt’s side. 

“Where else would I be? Longtail needs me. Don’t 
worry; I’m not tired.” She contradicted herself by 
stretching her jaws in an enormous yawn. 

“Last night you told me to get some sleep,” Firestar 


pointed out. “Now, as your Clan leader, I’m telling you. 
It won’t do Longtail any good if our medicine cat gets 
iL” 

“But Pm worried about him.” Cinderpelt lowered 
her voice, even though Longtail was asleep. “I think his 
eyes are infected. The rabbit’s claws must have been 
dirty.” 

Firestar peered at Longtail’s closed eyes. He 
couldn’t see much difference from the night before: 
they were still red and swollen, with sticky fluid and 
marigold pulp crusted around them. 

“Thats bad news,” he mewed. “All the same, I 
think you should eat that fresh-kill and then get some 
rest. PI send Rainpaw to you again,” he added 
persuasively. “He can keep an eye on things and call 
you if Longtail wakes up.” 

Cinderpelt rose to her paws and arched her back in 
a long stretch. “Okay,” she agreed. “But will you tell 
Rainpaw to fetch some more marigold first? There’s 
plenty near the top of the ravine.” 

“Provided I see you eating that squirrel.” 

Cinderpelt crouched down beside the squirrel, only 
to look up at Firestar again before she started to eat. 


“I’m so scared that I won’t be able to save Longtail’s 
sight,” she confessed. 

Firestar gently touched his nose to her ear. “Every 
cat in the Clan knows you’re doing your best. Longtail 
knows it most of all.” 

“What if my best isn’t good enough?” 

“It will be. ThunderClan couldn’t have a better 
medicine cat.” 

Cinderpelt sighed and shook her head before 
beginning to gulp down the squirrel. Firestar knew that 
he was wasting his breath trying to reassure her. If 
Longtail did go blind, Cinderpelt would blame herself, 
just as she had done when Graystripe’s mate, 
Silverstream, died bearing their kits. 

Resting his tail briefly on the medicine cat’s 
shoulder, he went to look for Rainpaw. 


Firestar led the way up the slope toward Fourtrees. 
Rain had fallen earlier that day, and drops clung to his 
pelt as he brushed through the long grass. But now the 
clouds had vanished and the full moon floated in a 
clear sky, surrounded by the glitter of Silverpelt. 


The warriors Firestar had chosen to attend the 
Gathering followed hard on his paws. Brambleclaw 
was bounding along at his shoulder, his eyes gleaming 
as if he could hardly stop himself from taking the lead 
and racing up the slope. 

“Calm down,” Graystripe meowed to him. “It’s not 
like this is your first Gathering.” 

“No, but I was always an apprentice before,” 
Brambleclaw pointed out. “Graystripe, do you think 
Firestar will tell all the Clans that I’ve been made a 
warrior?” 

Firestar glanced over his shoulder. “Yes, of course I 
will.” 

“But they might not believe it unless you stop 
behaving like an apprentice,’ Graystripe warned, 
flicking Brambleclaw’s ear with his tail. 

Firestar could already hear the sound of many cats 
ahead, and he picked out the scents of WindClan, 
RiverClan, and ShadowClan on the warm breeze. He 
quickened his pace. His dreams were still haunted by 
unfamiliar voices raised in misery, and it would be good 
to spend time among cats he knew well. He wanted to 
deal with problems he had met before, instead of 


struggling to find out what the strange cats wanted 
from him. 

But as he climbed the last slope to the edge of the 
hollow, he came to an abrupt stop. For a couple of 
heartbeats he was convinced that cats were rushing 
toward him, many cats, a whole Clanful. He blinked, 
and saw nothing but shadows. But the scent he had 
tasted in his dreams flowed around him, stronger now. 
Behind his eyes he had an impression of flattened ears 
and ruffled fur, as if the cats were fleeing from a 
Gathering that had broken up in disorder. 

A moment later the sensation vanished, and Firestar 
was aware of Dustpelt bumping into him from behind. 

“For StarClan’s sake,” the brown tabby warrior 
grumbled, “do you have to stop dead like that? Any cat 
would think you’d forgotten the way.” 

“Sorry,” Firestar mewed. 

His paws still tingling, he took the last few paces 
that brought him to the top of the hollow. In front of 
him the four great oaks rustled their branches, sending 
shifting patterns of light and shadow over the cats in 
the clearing. He paused for a few heartbeats longer 
than usual, searching for any other traces of the 


strange cats. But there was nothing to tell him who 
they were, and no trace of the pale warrior whose 
reflection he had seen in the puddle. Forcing himself to 
concentrate on the Gathering, he raised his tail to signal 
to his Clan and plunged into the bushes. 

When Firestar reached the clearmg, Brambleclaw 
raced past him and stopped in front of a tortoiseshell 
she-cat sitting a few tail-lengths away. “Tawnypaw!” 
he panted. “Guess what?” 

His sister stared back at him. “Tawnypaw? Who’s 
she? I’m Tawnypelt now, if you don’t mind.” 

Brambleclaw’s tail curled up in delight. “You are? 
That’s great! So am I—I mean, I’m a warrior too. My 
name’s Brambleclaw.” 

Tawnypelt purred and twined her tail with her 
brother’s. “Congratulations!” 

Just beyond them, Graystripe was greeting his son 
and daughter, Stormfur and Feathertail, whose new 
warrior names had been announced by Leopardstar, 
the RiverClan leader, at the previous Gathering. 
Stormfur was a muscular gray tomcat, very like his 
father, while Feathertail had the beautiful light gray pelt 
of her mother, Silverstream. 


Sandstorm headed straight for Mistyfoot, the 
RiverClan deputy, who was sitting near the Great 
Rock. The two she-cats had become friends when 
Mistyfoot had been driven out of her own Clan by 
Tigerstar, and had spent some time in ThunderClan. 

Seeing that the rest of his warriors were also 
greeting friends from other Clans, Firestar headed for 
the Great Rock, where Leopardstar, Blackstar, and 
Tallstar were waiting. 

Tallstar stepped forward as Firestar sprang up to 
join them. “Greetings, Firestar. Now that we’re all 
here, the Gathering can start.” 

Firestar dipped his head to the other three leaders 
while Blackstar let out a yowl, signaling for the cats in 
the clearing below to be quiet. “I will begin by speaking 
for ShadowClan,” he announced, narrowing his eyes at 
the other leaders as if they might challenge his right to 
make his report first. 

None of the other leaders tried to argue with him, 
though Tallstar shot a glance at Firestar, and 
Leopardstar irritably twitched the tip of her tail. 

“The prey is running well in ShadowClan,” 
Blackstar began. “And we have made a new warrior, 


Tawnypelt.” 

A chorus of yowls broke out as the cats of all four 
Clans congratulated Tawnypelt and called out her 
name. Firestar glanced down to see the young 
tortoiseshell warrior sitting beside her brother, her eyes 
shining proudly. But he couldn’t help noticing that a 
few of her own Clanmates—the deputy, Russetfur, for 
one—kept silent, giving Tawnypelt suspicious stares. 
Firestar bit back a sigh. Some ShadowClan cats clearly 
mistrusted her because she had been born in 
ThunderClan. 

“We have seen more Twolegs in our territory,” 
Blackstar went on. “They stride around yowling at one 
another, and sometimes they let their monsters leave 
the Thunderpath and crash through the woods.” 

“Leave the Thunderpath?” Mistyfoot called out 
from below. “Why? Are they chasing your cats, 
Blackstar?” 

“No,” the ShadowClan leader replied. “I don’t think 
they even know we’re there. They’ll be no trouble so 
long as we stay away from them.” 

“They must frighten the prey, though,’ Tallstar 
muttered to Firestar. “I wouldn’t want any more of 


them on my territory; that’s for sure.” 

“ShadowClan cats are better than most of us at 
hiding,” Firestar pointed out under his breath. 

Blackstar stepped back, nudging Tallstar. “Go on, it’s 
your turn,” he meowed. 

The WindClan leader dipped his head before 
advancing to the edge of the rock. “All is well in 
WindClan,” he reported. “Ashfoot has a new litter of 
three kits. Onewhisker and Mudclaw chased off a fox 
who seemed to think it would be happier living on the 
moors than in the woods.” 

“We soon changed its mind!” Mudclaw, the 
WindClan deputy, yowled from where he sat at the 
base of the Great Rock. 

“You'd better keep a lookout for it,’ Tallstar 
continued to Leopardstar. “It crossed into your territory 
near the river.” 

“Thank you for that, Tallstar,’ the RiverClan leader 
replied dryly. “Another fox is just what we need. PI 
warn the patrols.” 

Firestar reminded himself to do the same. RiverClan 
territory was narrow there, and if the fox had kept 
going it could easily have crossed into ThunderClan. 


Meanwhile, Leopardstar had stepped forward. “As 
usual in greenleaf, there are more Twolegs around,” 
she meowed. “They bring boats onto the river, and 
their kits play in the water and frighten the fish. This 
season the river is low, so there aren’t quite as many 
Twolegs as usual. However, we have no problem 
feeding ourselves.” 

Firestar wondered if that was completely true. If the 
water was low in the river then surely there wouldn’t 
be so many fish either. But it wasn’t his place to argue, 
and he knew that Leopardstar, like all the leaders, 
wouldn’t want her Clan to seem weak from lack of 
food. 

“ThunderClan has a new warrior too,’ he 
announced when Leopardstar stepped back. 
“Bramblepaw had his warrior ceremony, and is now 
Brambleclaw.” 

Another chorus of congratulations broke out, while 
Brambleclaw sat beside his sister and acknowledged 
them with an embarrassed dip of his head. While he 
waited for the noise to die down, Firestar decided not 
to mention Longtail’s accident. Before the next 
Gathering, Cinderpelt would probably have healed the 


tabby warrior’s eyes, and the whole incident would be 
forgotten. 

“Our prey is plentiful and the Twolegs aren’t 
bothering us,” he finished. 

It wasn’t often that a Gathering ended so quickly, 
with no serious disturbances to report from outside, 
and no reason for quarrels among the Clans. As 
Blackstar brought it to a close, Firestar looked down 
into the hollow. It was harder and harder to remember 
how it had looked after the battle with BloodClan, 
when the grass was stained red and the bodies of 
forest cats and the invaders from Twolegplace lay 
scattered across the clearing. He had lost his first life 
then, seeing a pale outline of himself take its place 
among the warriors of StarClan. 

The starry cats had given him the courage to fight 
on when they told him there had always been four 
Clans living in the forest, and there always would be. 

Life would go on like this forever; Firestar found the 
thought comforting. The daily routine of patrols, the toil 
of finding prey and training apprentices—even 
disturbing events like Longtail’s injury and his own 
unexplained dreams—seemed small and insignificant 


when placed beside the unending pattern of Clan life. 
Firestar was part of a long, long line of cats all driven 
by loyalty to their Clanmates and the warrior code. 
Even when he had lost his last life, the Great Oaks 
would still be here, one for each Clan, until his name 
had been long forgotten. 


CHAPTER 4 


The Gathering was over. Firestar bunched his 
muscles to leap down into the clearing. As he looked 
for a space to land, he froze, gripping the surface of 
the rock with his claws. The hollow suddenly seemed 
more crowded than usual. Sleek, starlit shapes were 
weaving among the forest cats, close enough for their 
pelts to brush. The forest cats passed them without a 
glance, calling out to their Clanmates as they prepared 
to leave. The other three leaders leaped down into the 
midst of the strangers like water voles leaping into a 
pool. Leopardstar almost landed on top of a 
shimmering white warrior, and bounded away without 
even a twitch of her whiskers. 

Firestar shivered. None of the others can see 
them! 

His gaze was drawn to one cat among the starry 
shapes: the gray-and-white cat he had seen twice 
before. He was staring directly at Firestar, his jaws 
open in a silent plea, but before Firestar could respond, 
Mudclaw of WindClan passed in front of him and the 


gray-and-white cat vanished. 

Firestar knew these were the same cats he had 
seen leaping in the river, the same cats that had 
appeared to him indistinctly through the mist in his 
dreams. Who are they? And what are they doing 
here? 

“Hey, Firestar!” Graystripe called from the foot of 
the Great Rock. “Are you going to stay up there all 
night?” 

Firestar gave himself a shake. He couldn’t go on 
like this. These cats had stalked him through his 
dreams, and now they were haunting him in the waking 
world as wel. He had to find out why, and if 
Cinderpelt couldn’t help him, there might be other cats 
who could. 

He leaped down to where Graystripe was waiting 
for him with Sandstorm, Brambleclaw, and the rest of 
the ThunderClan warriors. “Graystripe, I want you and 
Sandstorm to lead the Clan back to camp.” 

“Why, where are you going?” 

Firestar took a deep breath. “I need to go to the 
Moonstone. I have to share tongues with StarClan.” 

Graystripe looked surprised, but Sandstorm’s green 


gaze met Firestar’s with a look of understanding. 

“I knew something’s been troubling you,’ she 
mewed quietly, brushing her pelt against his. “Maybe 
you'll feel better after you’ve spoken to our warrior 
ancestors.” 

“I hope so,” Firestar responded. 

“Shall I come with you?” Graystripe offered. “The 
rest of the Clan don’t need me to take them home, and 
you never know what might be lurking on the moors. 
What if that fox has come back?” 

“No, thanks, Graystripe,” Firestar meowed. “PI go 
with WindClan as far as their camp, and after that I'll 
be fine.” 

“Okay.” Graystripe gathered the rest of the 
ThunderClan warriors together with a sweep of his 
tail “When you pass Barley’s farm, say hi to 
Ravenpaw for me.” 

“PI do that.” Firestar turned to Sandstorm and 
touched his nose to hers. “Good-bye. Ill be back 
soon.” 

“Good luck.” Sandstorm blinked at him. “I hope you 
find some answers. It feels like you’re a long way 
away just now.” 


Giving her ear a final lick, Firestar plunged into the 
bushes up to the top of the slope on the WindClan side 
of the hollow. Tallstar was already leading his cats onto 
the moor: small, dark shapes outlined against a wash of 
moonlight. Firestar raced after them until he overtook 
the cat who brought up the rear. 

“Hi, Onewhisker,” he panted. “Is it okay if I travel 
with you? I need to go to Highstones.” 

“Sure. No trouble, I hope?” 

“Nothing to worry about,” Firestar replied, hoping 
that was true. 

He said good-bye to the WindClan cats on the slope 
above the hollow where they camped. Dawn was 
breaking as he set out for Highstones, the pointed mass 
of rock dark against the pale sky. A chill wind ruffled 
the short, springy grass, pressing Firestar’s fur against 
his sides. Up here the sky seemed huge, without any 
trees for cover. The scents were unfamiliar, too: a 
mixture of gorse, heather, and rabbits, with a sharp 
tang of peaty earth. 

A small, reed-frnged stream crossed Firestar’s 
path. He leaped it easily, startling a rabbit that jumped 
up under his paws and fled down the slope, its white 


tail bobbing. Firestar’s paws itched to chase it, but he 
wouldn’t take prey on another Clan’s territory; besides, 
a Clan leader who traveled to Highstones to meet with 
StarClan at the Moonstone wasn’t allowed to eat on 
the journey. 

The sun had risen by the time the barren moorland 
gave way to lush meadows bounded by hedges and 
Twoleg fences. A Twoleg nest came into sight, and 
Firestar heard the distant barking of a dog. He looked 
around warily, tasting the air, but the dog scent was 
stale, and he reminded himself that by now the farm 
dogs, who were left to run loose at night, would be tied 
up again. 

He skirted the Twoleg nest, slinking along in the 
shadow of a hedge. Another scent drifted toward him, 
stronger and fresher than the scent of dog: rats! 
Firestar paused, remembering how on his first journey 
to Highstones Bluestar had lost a life in a battle with 
rats very near this place. Pinpointing the source of the 
scent, he realized that he was downwind of it; with any 
luck he could pass without letting the rats know he was 
here. 

Not far away from the Twoleg nest was a barn built 


of rough stone. Firestar headed for it and halted 
outside the door. A strong scent of cats flowed out of a 
gap at the bottom. Firestar felt a purr growing in his 
chest. “Hi,” he mewed. “Can I come in?” 

“Firestar!” A delighted meow came from inside the 
barn, and a black cat’s head poked out of the gap. 
“What are you doing here?” 

Firestar slid through the door and stood among the 
dusty scraps of straw on the floor of the barn. He was 
greeted enthusiastically by Ravenpaw, who had been a 
ThunderClan apprentice when Firestar first came to 
the forest. Ravenpaw had known too much about 
Tigerstar’s crimes, and Firestar had brought him to the 
barn before the bloodthirsty deputy murdered him to 
keep him quiet. Ravenpaw had been scrawny and 
nervous back then; now he was sleek and full-fed, his 
black pelt shining in the sunlight that angled through a 
hole in the barn roof. 

“It’s good to see you again,” Firestar meowed. The 
last time he and Ravenpaw had met was at the battle 
with BloodClan, when the black cat and his friend 
Barley had joined in the fight with the forest cats. 

“Welcome.” Ravenpaw touched noses with his 


former Clanmate. “Is all well in ThunderClan?” 

“Fine,” Firestar replied. “But I—” 

He broke off as another voice called out a greeting. 
Barley, the black-and-white cat who shared the barn 
with Ravenpaw, appeared at the top of a pile of straw 
bales and dropped neatly down at Firestar’s side. He 
was a Short, compact cat, well muscled, even though 
his belly was a bit too plump from all the mice that 
lived in the barn. 

“Do you want to hunt?” he offered. “There’s plenty 
of prey. Take as much as you like.” 

“I’m sorry, I can’t,” Firestar answered regretfully. 
Water flooded his jaws at the smell of mice; he could 
hear the tiny squeakings among the straw. “I’m on my 
way to the Moonstone, so I’m not allowed to eat.” 

“That’s tough,” meowed Ravenpaw. “But you can 
rest here, can’t you? There’s no point in going to 
Highstones yet. You’ll arrive long before sunset.” 

“Thanks. I’m so tired I could sleep on my paws.” 

Ravenpaw led the way to the opposite side of the 
barn, where he and Barley had made nests in a loose 
heap of hay. Barley left them to talk together, giving 
Firestar a friendly nod before sliding out of the barn. 


Firestar turned around two or three times, making 
himself a comfortable spot before curling up with the 
sweet-smelling stems tickling his nose. 

“So, what brings you to the Moonstone?” Ravenpaw 
asked, and added hastily, “You don’t have to tell me.” 

Firestar hesitated. So far the only cat he’d confided 
in was Cinderpelt, and he hadn’t told her everything. 
He suddenly realized what a relief it would be to share 
his worries with a cat who didn’t look upon him as a 
leader, but as a friend. 

‘Tve had strange dreams,” he began, describing for 
Ravenpaw the stretch of unfamiliar moorland and the 
shrill wailing of cats lost in the mist. “And that’s not all. 
I’ve started to see things when I’m awake, too. 
There’s one cat—a pale gray warrior—that I’ve seen 
three times now. Not just him...a whole Clan of cats, 
shining like starlight. I saw them last night at the 
Gathering, but no other cat knew they were there. 
Sometimes I think I’m going mad.” 

Ravenpaw’s green eyes were filled with concern. 
“Are you sure they’re not from StarClan?” 

For a heartbeat Firestar felt how strange it was to 
talk about StarClan with a cat who didn’t belong to a 


Clan anymore. 

“Don’t think I’ve forgotten my warrior ancestors,” 
Ravenpaw put in, as though he guessed what his friend 
was thinking. “I may not go to Gatherings anymore, but 
there’s a part of me that will always be a Clan cat.” 

Firestar blinked, understanding. “I’m sure the cats 
I’ve seen aren’t any of the warrior ancestors I know. I 
don’t recognize any of them, or their scent. I don’t 
know who or what they are, or why I keep seeing 
them. That’s what worries me.” 

Ravenpaw flicked the white tip of his tail. “StarClan 
will probably be able to explain when you share 
tongues tonight. Why don’t you sleep now, so you'll be 
ready?” 

“I think I will?’ Firestar murmured. “Wake me at 
sunhigh, please.” 

With a drowsy purr, he settled himself more 
comfortably in his nest of hay. Sunlight slanted through 
the dust-filled air, the motes dancing like tiny stars. His 
eyes closed, and he drifted into a warm, hay-scented 
sleep. 


Only a few heartbeats seemed to have passed 
before Firestar felt a paw prodding him in the side. He 
blinked his eyes open to see Ravenpaw standing over 
him. 

“It’s sunhigh,” the black cat meowed. 

Firestar rose and arched his back in a luxurious 
stretch. He couldn’t remember the last time he had 
slept so soundly. In the ThunderClan camp, even if he 
didn’t dream of the moorland, his sleep had been 
disturbed ever since he first saw the pale gray cat. He 
wondered if he had rested so well because he was 
away from the forest. Was it only there that the 
strange cats could reach him? 

He said a quick good-bye to Barley and Ravenpaw. 
The prey scent in the barn was more enticing than 
ever, reminding him of his empty belly. He wished he 
had taken the time to hunt and eat before he left 
Fourtrees, but it was too late now. He left the barn and 
temptation behind him, and set out for Highstones. 

By the time he reached the ridge, crossing the 
Thunderpath and scrambling up the rocky slopes, the 
sun was going down. The dark hole of Mothermouth 
gaped in the hillside. Firestar found a flat-topped stone 


and sat looking out across the Twoleg fields and nests, 
until darkness fell and the moon shed its silver light 
over the jagged rocks. 

He had walked down the lightless tunnel that led to 
the Moonstone many times, but fear still gripped his 
belly as he stepped into the hungry shadows. Only his 
whiskers brushing the walls on each side and his paws 
on the rough, downward slope told him which way to 
go. Once he had left the opening behind him, the air 
was stale, with a tang of dust and stone. Firestar 
shivered to think of the weight of rock above his head, 
pressing down on the fragile tunnel. 

At last came the moment when the air grew fresher 
again, bringing the scents of the moor to his nose. The 
tunnel opened out into a large cave, and he caught a 
glimpse of the stars glittering far above, shedding their 
faint light through a hole in the roof. He could just 
make out the dark shape of the Moonstone in front of 
him, stretching three tail-lengths high from the floor of 
the cave. Wrapping his tail around his paws, he sat 
down to wait. 

The change came with a blinding flash, as if every 
star in Silverpelt had poured down into the cave at 


once. The moon shifted in the sky until it shone down 
through the hole in the roof; in its light the Moonstone 
glittered like dew, shedding a pale, sparkling light on the 
cavern walls and the high, arched roof. 

Firestar lay in front of the Moonstone and stretched 
out until he could touch it with his nose. Cold spread 
through him from muzzle to tail tip, and he remembered 
the last time he had come here, to receive his nine lives 
and his name. It seemed such a long time ago. He 
closed his eyes and let the darkness take him. 

For countless heartbeats he felt nothing but wind 
and the scent of night rushing through his fur. Fear 
swelled up inside him; he gritted his teeth, refusing to 
lift his nose from the cold, cold stone. 

Then his ears picked up a faint sound that gradually 
grew louder: the rustling of leaves in the breeze. His 
eyes flew open. Huge branches stretched above his 
head, barely visible against a dark sky. There was no 
moon, but the stars of Silverpelt were burning brightly, 
close enough to look as if they were tangled among the 
leaves. 

Firestar scrambled up and looked around. He was 
back at Fourtrees, but this time the clearing was 


empty. 

Then starlight sparkled at the edge of his sight, too 
low to come from Silverpelt; he spun around to see a 
blue-furred she-cat padding out of the shadows. Her 
pelt shone silver, and she left a frosty glitter on the 
grass where she set her paws. 

“Bluestar!” Firestar was overjoyed to see the 
ThunderClan leader before him. “It’s good to see you. 
Have you come here alone?” 

Bluestar padded closer until Firestar could see the 
gleaming depths of her blue eyes. “I know why you 
have come,” she replied, “and the questions you want 
to ask would not be welcomed by many of your 
warrior ancestors.” 

Firestar stared at her. “Do you mean that StarClan 
know the cats in my dreams? Are they from StarClan 
too? Why have I never seen them before? And what 
do they want from me?” 

Bluestar brushed her tail across his mouth to silence 
him. Her eyes were troubled. Firestar felt as though he 
stood on the verge of a dark secret, and suddenly he 
didn’t want to know what lay in its depths. 

“Firestar.” Bluestar’s voice was uncertain, hesitant. 


“Is there any way you would be content to go away 
without the answer you seek?” 

There was a hint of desperation in her eyes; Firestar 
almost gave way to her, but then he remembered why 
he had come. If he left without an explanation, the 
terrified wailing would invade his dreams over and 
over again, and there would be no escape from visions 
of the fleeing cats. 

“No, Bluestar,’ he answered steadily. “I have to 
know the truth.” 

“Very well.” Bluestar sighed. “The cats you have 
seen are from SkyClan.” 

“SkyClan?”’ Firestar echoed. “What is that?” 

Bluestar bowed her head. “They are—they were— 
the fifth Clan.” 


CHAPTER 5 


“But there have always been four Clans in the 
forest!” 

“Not always,” Bluestar replied. Her voice and her 
eyes were cold. “Once there were five. SkyClan’s 
territory lay downriver from ThunderClan, where the 
Twolegplace is now. When the Twolegs built their 
nests, many, many seasons ago, SkyClan left the 
forest. There was no room for them then—and there’s 
no room for them now.” 

“Where did they go?” Firestar asked. 

“T don’t know. Far from these skies where StarClan 
walks.” 

“And did StarClan never try to find them?” Firestar 
was shocked that Bluestar sounded so dismissive, as if 
the spirits of their warrior ancestors didn’t care that a 
whole Clan had gone away. 

“Their own warrior ancestors went with them,” 
Bluestar explained. “There was no reason why 
SkyClan couldn’t have found another home 
somewhere else.” 


“Then what do they want with me?” Firestar asked, 
bewildered. “Are they trying to tell me that they want 
to come back? Why would they do that, if they found 
another home?” 

“I don’t know,” Bluestar admitted. “But from the 
first moment I saw you, all those seasons ago, I knew 
you were the fire that would save our Clan. I knew 
you would leave pawsteps behind you that will be 
remembered as long as the warrior Clans survive. 
Perhaps SkyClan sees this also. Perhaps they think 
that only you can help them.” 

Firestar shivered. “Are you telling me that I have to 
find SkyClan and bring them back to the forest?” 

“T’m not telling you anything of the kind,” Bluestar 
snapped. “Where is there room for another Clan?” 

“But the dreams—’” Firestar protested. 

“Firestar, are there bees in your brain?” Bluestar’s 
tail lashed. “You are ThunderClan’s leader, and your 
Clan needs you. There’s nothing in the warrior code 
that says you have to help a Clan that has been missing 
for so long, no living cat remembers them.” 

Firestar narrowed his eyes. Bluestar was right about 
his responsibility toward ThunderClan, but he couldn’t 


forget the wailing of the cats on the moor. How could 
he ignore them, if there was anything he could do to 
help? It wasn’t Bluestar’s dreams that were filled with 
the shrieks of terrified, fleemg cats; she didn’t see a 
pleading, haunted face in every pool of water. 

And yet the only reason he had found the courage to 
lead the forest Clans into battle against BloodClan was 
because he had believed his warrior ancestors when 
they told him there had always been four Clans in the 
forest. The fifth Clan was StarClan, forever protecting 
the four below. Had StarClan lied? 

Bluestar rested her tail tip on his shoulder and spoke 
more calmly. “Your warrior ancestors are watching 
over you now, just as they have always done. Nothing 
has changed. Your duty is to your own Clan now.” 

“But SkyClan—” 

“Has gone. There is no gap where they used to be, 
no prey or territory waiting for them to return. The 
forest is perfectly divided between the four Clans who 
remain.” 

“Then it’s the will of StarClan that I just ignore these 
cats?” Firestar challenged her. “Don’t you care that 
they are suffering?” 


Bluestar blinked. “There are cats who would argue 
that there should never have been a fifth Clan in the 
forest at all. Why are there four oaks at Fourtrees, if 
not to stand for the four Clans?” 

Firestar gazed up at the massive oak trees, then 
back at Bluestar. Fury pure as a lightning flash rushed 
through his body. “Are you mouse-brained?” he 
snarled. “Are you telling me SkyClan had to leave 
because there weren’t enough trees?” 

A look of shock and dismay filled Bluestar’s eyes. 
Not waiting for her reply, Firestar whipped around and 
raced to the edge of the hollow. Brambles tore at his 
fur as he plunged through the bushes, but the pain 
meant nothing. Ever since he came to the forest he 
had trusted his warrior ancestors. But they had been 
lying to him all along. He felt as if he had taken a step 
on ground he thought was solid, only to fall into deep 
and bitter water. 

He fought his way through the last of the bushes, 
but instead of reaching the rim of the hollow, he found 
himself blinking awake in the cavern of the 
Moonstone. His breath was coming in harsh rasps. His 
fur felt torn and rumpled. His paws stung, and when he 


licked them he tasted the salty tang of blood, as if he 
had been running a long way over stony ground. 

Far above, through the hole in the roof, clouds 
covered the moon and stars. The cave was utterly 
dark. Firestar rose to his paws and limped across the 
cave floor, close to panic until he stumbled into the 
entrance to the tunnel. When he emerged onto the side 
of the hill a stiff breeze was shredding the clouds like 
wet cobweb. Firestar caught only fitful glimpses of the 
moon, but stars were shining overhead once more. 

He crawled onto the flat rock where he had waited 
earlier and collapsed there, gazing upward. He could 
not see the kindly eyes of his warrior ancestors in the 
starlight any longer. The desperate cries of the lost and 
tortured SkyClan echoed through his mind. How am 1 
meant to help them? 

All those cats must be dead by now. They had fled 
so long ago that no cat remembered them. But where 
were their descendants, the living SkyClan? 


Firestar lay on the rock until the sky grew milk-pale 
with dawn. Then he made his way, pawstep by painful 


pawstep, down the hill and into the fields, leaving the 
jagged peak of Highstones behind him. A feeling of 
betrayal still swirled through him like a flooding river. 
He had always respected StarClan, trusting them to 
want what was best for all the Clans. Now he had 
discovered that they could make mistakes, just like any 
living cat. If he couldn’t trust them, would he ever 
come here to share tongues with his warrior ancestors 
again? 

His belly felt hollow with hunger. Passing 
Ravenpaw’s barn, he fought the temptation to go in to 
see his friends, to feast on their prey and rest in the 
soft heap of hay. But Ravenpaw was bound to ask him 
what StarClan had said about the strange cats, and he 
could not think what he would answer. Ravenpaw still 
clung to his faith in StarClan, even though he had left 
the forest; could Firestar shatter that faith by revealing 
how their warrior ancestors had lied to all the cats in 
the forest, over and over again? 

Once he had left the Twoleg farm behind, Firestar 
stopped to hunt, swiping an unsuspecting mouse as it 
nibbled seeds in the shelter of a hedge. It scarcely took 
the edge off his hunger, but he was too exhausted to go 


looking for more. He curled up under a hawthorn bush 
and fell headlong into sleep. 

When he woke it was almost sunhigh. Feeling better, 
Firestar set off again, skirting the edge of a field where 
the corn grew tall, beginning to turn golden in the sun. 
He spotted another mouse as it slipped between the 
stiff stems, pounced on it, and killed it with a swift bite 
to the neck. Gulping down the last few mouthfuls he 
headed for the moors. 

The sun was going down when he limped at last into 
the ThunderClan camp. Red light bathed the clearing, 
barred with the shadows of trees. Firestar let out a 
long, despairing sigh. It was good to be home, but could 
he really go on as Clan leader, knowing what he knew 
now? 

As he hesitated at the mouth of the gorse tunnel, 
Graystripe came charging across from the warriors’ 
den. Sandstorm glanced up from where she crouched 
beside the fresh-kill pile and padded more slowly to jon 
him. 

“Firestar, you’re back!” Graystripe exclaimed. “It’s 
great to see you.” Halting in front of his friend, he 
added more doubtfully, “Is everything okay?” 


‘T’m fine, thanks,” Firestar replied, every word an 
effort. “I’m tired; that’s all.” 

Sandstorm brushed her tail sympathetically along his 
flank. Her green eyes searched his face, and he knew 
she realized that it was not only weariness that 
troubled him. But she didn’t question him, just mewed, 
“Then it’s time you got some rest.” 

“Listen, Firestar,’ Graystripe went on, “the 
afternoon patrol just got back. They think that fox 
Tallstar was talking about has crossed over into 
ThunderClan territory. At least, they picked up strong, 
fresh fox scent on the border, not far from the Twoleg 
bridge.” 

Firestar squeezed his eyes shut, trying to 
concentrate on what this would mean for his Clan. 
“Did they follow the scent?” 

“They tried, but they lost it in a boggy bit of ground 
near the stream.” Graystripe was looking expectantly 
at Firestar, waiting for his leader to tell him what to do. 
His expression changed to alarm as the silence 
lengthened. 

Firestar felt as if he were trying to struggle through 
brambles inside his head. He could understand the 


problem about the fox, but it felt as if it belonged to 
another cat, a long time ago, and had nothing to do with 
him. 

“Firestar?” Sandstorm murmured, moving closer so 
that he could feel the warmth of her pelt. 

The excited squeals of kits brought Firestar back to 
the present. In the center of the clearmg Shrewkit and 
Spiderkit were pouncing on a bundle of moss. 

“Take that, Scourge!” Spiderkit squealed. “Get out 
of our forest!” 

“And take your Clan with you!” Shrewkit landed in 
the middle of the moss, paws flying, scattering the 
scraps in a wide circle around him. 

“Hey!” Rainpaw came bounding up from the 
direction of the elders’ den. “I just collected all that!” 
he protested. “How am I supposed to fix the elders’ 
bedding if you keep messing it up?” 

The two kits exchanged a glance, then scampered 
off side by side, back to the nursery, their tails waving 
in the air. Rainpaw watched them go, neck fur bristling, 
then began to collect up the scattered scraps of moss. 

Watching the kits at play reminded Firestar that Clan 
life was not just about StarClan, or even the warrior 


code. His duty as leader was to provide for his 
Clanmates now, and make sure they lived long and 
happy lives in the forest. Feeling a trickle of energy 
begin to flow into his tired limbs, he turned back to 
Graystripe. 

“Right—the fox. Double the patrols on that part of 
the border. And tell the hunting patrols to keep a 
lookout. We don’t want it to settle here.” 

“Sure.” Relief flooded into Graystripe’s eyes as 
Firestar took control again. “Pl make sure al 
tomorrow’s patrols know about it.” He headed toward 
the warriors’ den. 

Sandstorm stayed with Firestar. “You can tell me, 
you know,” she meowed quietly. 

“T know. I promise I will, but not yet.” 

His mate nodded. “Why don’t you go to your den 
and rest? Pll bring you some fresh-kill.” 

“Thanks, but I’d better visit Cinderpelt first. I want 
to check on Longtail.” 

While Sandstorm went back to the fresh-kill pile, 
Firestar padded across the darkening camp and 
brushed through the fern tunnel to Cinderpelt’s den. 

The medicine cat was bent over Longtail, examining 


his eyes. As Firestar called out a greeting, the tabby 
warrior sat up and turned to him. Firestar stopped 
dead, his pelt prickling with horror. Though Longtail’s 
eyes were open now, they were clouded and still 
weeping stickily. 

“Can you see?” Firestar forced himself to ask, 
choking back an exclamation of pity. That was the last 
thing Longtail would want. 

“A bit,” Longtail replied. “But everything’s blurred.” 

“His eyes are still infected,’ Cinderpelt explained. 
She looked exhausted; her gray fur was rumpled and 
her blue eyes were dull with defeat. “I’ve tried every 
herb and berry I can think of, and nothing will clear it 
up.” 

Longtail clawed at the bracken where he sat, his 
head lowered. “I’m just going to be a burden to the 
Clan,” he growled. 

“No!” Firestar exclaimed. “I won’t let you say that. 
Look at Brightheart—she’s learned to fight with only 
one eye.” 

“At least she has one good eye,” Longtail hissed. 
“You might as well leave me in the forest for the 
foxes.” 


“That will never happen, not while I’m leader of this 
Clan,” Firestar hissed back. Fury shook him, not 
against Longtail, but against himself for not having 
enough power to protect his warrior from the 
consequences of his injury. Trying to sound calmer, he 
added, “Besides, you haven’t lost your sight yet. 
Cinderpelt will do her best to find an herb that works.” 

“PI keep trying,’ Cinderpelt vowed. Beckoning 
Firestar with her tail, she led him over to the fern 
tunnel. “You’d better leave Longtail alone for now,” 
she advised quietly. “He’s badly shocked, and he needs 
a while to get used to the idea that his eyes might not 
get better.” 

Firestar nodded. “Okay.” Raising his voice, he 
added, “Don’t worry about a thing, Longtail. You'll 
always have a place in ThunderClan. I’ll come and see 
you again soon.” 

Returning through the tunnel to the twilit clearing, 
Firestar still felt choked by pity—and fury, too, that this 
should happen to one of his warriors. He remembered 
the life that Brindleface had given him when he 
became Clan leader—a life for protection, the care of 
a mother for her kits. He had expected that life to be 


warm and gentle, but instead it had entered him with 
the shock of fire and ice together. He had felt the raw, 
ravenous urge to fight and kill, to spill rivers of blood to 
protect young, helpless cats. Now, thinking of Longtail 
as he struggled to cope with losing his sight, Firestar 
understood more clearly what that instinct meant. As 
Clan leader, he would rip out all his claws to protect 
any one of his Clanmates. 

His den under the Highrock was cool and quiet. 
Sandstorm had left a rabbit for him, and Firestar settled 
down to eat. Now that he was alone, he felt as limp as 
a drooping leaf. Yet he was beginning to see a way 
forward, a way to care for his Clan even though his 
trust in StarClan had been shattered. 

He was curling up comfortably when a shadow fell 
across the den entrance. He looked up to see 
Cinderpelt, her head and shoulders thrusting back the 
screen of lichen. “Longtail’s asleep now,’ she 
explained. “So I thought I’d take the chance to come 
and ask what happened at the Moonstone. Did you 
find the answers you were seeking?” 

“Yes, but they weren’t the answers that I wanted to 
hear.” He felt it was still too soon to tell what had 


happened, even to his medicine cat. 

To his relief, Cinderpelt didn’t press him. Coming 
into his den, she bent her head to give his ear a 
comforting lick. “Have faith,’ she urged him. 
“StarClan are watching over us, and everything will be 
all right.” 

A claw of anger pierced Firestar. He longed to tell 
her that StarClan had lied to them, that their ancestors 
had allowed a Clan to leave the forest in spite of 
everything in the warrior code. 

But he could not bring himself to poison Cinderpelt’s 
faith, to spill bile onto everything she believed. 
Somehow he knew that this was his problem, and his 
alone. Without the help of StarClan, without any 
remnant of faith in his warrior ancestors, he must find 
a way of dealing with it. 


CHAPTER 6 


Wind swept across the moorland, shredding the 
mist, and Firestar saw the fleeing cats clearly for the 
first time. They were following a river; the familiar 
tang of water in the air told him this was the forest 
river he knew, though here, beyond WindClan territory, 
it flowed more swiftly through the hills. 

“Wait!” Firestar called to them. “Cats of SkyClan, 
wait for me! I’ve come to help you.” 

He raced across the springy turf, but the SkyClan 
cats sped away from him as if they had not heard his 
cries. 

Suddenly a kit tumbled into the river, its mother 
letting out a yowl of dismay as the current swept it 
away. Then a young apprentice, straying away from 
the main group, was picked off by a fox. Firestar heard 
its squeals of terror cut off abruptly as the fox bounded 
away, outpacing a couple of warriors who tried to 
chase it. An elder lagged farther and farther behind; 
she kept limping after her Clan, though her paws left 
smears of blood on the grass. Another staggered to a 


halt, then fell on one side and didn’t get up again. 

At the head of the journeying Clan Firestar spotted 
the gray-and-white cat. Thin, hungry-looking warriors 
clustered around him. Even though Firestar still 
couldn’t catch up to them, their voices came clearly to 
him. 

“Where are we going?” one of them meowed. “We 
can’t live here...there’s no prey, and nowhere to 
camp.” 

“I don’t know where we’re going,” the gray-and- 
white cat replied. “We just have to keep on until we 
find somewhere.” 

“But how long?” one of the other warriors asked. 
No cat replied. 

Firestar saw a small, light brown tabby she-cat 
shouldering her way through the warriors until she 
reached the gray-and-white cat. “Let me speak to 
StarClan,” she begged. “They might know of a place 
for us.” 

The cat rounded on her. “No, Fawnstep!” he spat. 
“Our warrior ancestors have failed us. As far as we’re 
concerned, StarClan no longer exist.” 

He must be the Clan leader! There was authority 


in his voice, and the small tabby—SkyClan’s medicine 
cat, Firestar guessed—bowed her head, and didn’t try 
to argue. 

Firestar called out to the SkyClan cats again and 
made one last effort to catch up to them, but he was 
falling farther and farther behind. Mist swirled around 
him again, cutting him off from the fleeing Clan. At last 
his paws wouldn’t carry him any longer. He sank 
down, and opened his eyes to find himself in his own 
den. 

Gradually he became aware of another cat sitting in 
the shadows. “Sandstorm?” he murmured, longing for 
the warmth and comfort of his mate’s presence. 

The cat turned toward him, and the light from the 
den entrance fell onto a soft tortoiseshell pelt. 

“Spottedleaf!” 

The former ThunderClan medicine cat rose and 
came toward him, gently touching her nose to his. 
Firestar drank in her familiar sweet scent. He couldn’t 
think of her as one of the warrior ancestors who had 
betrayed him; no matter what the rest of StarClan 
might do, he would always trust Spottedleaf. 

Gazing at the shape of her head and her slender, 


graceful body, he found himself thinking of the gray- 
and-white cat, the SkyClan leader he had seen in his 
dreams. 

“Have you come to tell me about SkyClan?” he 
asked. 

“Yes,” Spottedleaf replied gravely. “When I lived in 
ThunderClan, I never knew there had once been five 
Clans living in the forest. I learned their story after I 
joined StarClan.” 

“T don’t understand.” Firestar scratched restlessly at 
a piece of moss. “How could StarClan allow a whole 
Clan to leave the forest?” 

Spottedleaf crouched beside him. He could feel the 
vibrations of her soothing purr. “I know it is hard for 
you,” she mewed. “But StarClan do not control 
everything in the forest. We could not banish the dog 
pack that threatened you, or drive out Scourge and 
BloodClan.” 

Firestar sighed; he knew that was true. But it didn’t 
explain why StarClan had lied, and pretended that 
SkyClan had never existed. “Have you met any of the 
SkyClan cats?” 

Spottedleaf shook her head. “We do not walk the 


same skies.” 

“I spoke to Bluestar,” Firestar meowed. “She told 
me my duty is to ThunderClan. She said there is 
nothing I can do for SkyClan. But if that’s true, why do 
I keep seeing them?” 

“If the SkyClan leader has appeared to you in 
dreams,” Spottedleaf replied, touching his shoulder 
with her tail, “then he must believe you can help him.” 

“But how?” Firestar persisted. “What can I do? It 
all happened so long ago.” 

“The answer will be shown to you,” Spottedleaf 
promised. “Rest now.” 

She pressed closer to his side, and Firestar drifted 
more deeply into sleep, comforted by her warm scent. 
This time no dreams disturbed him. 


Bright sunlight shone into his den when Firestar 
woke. Spottedleaf was gone, though he caught a trace 
of her scent among his bedding. He rose and stretched, 
feeling new energy coursing through him. 

Skirting the Highrock, he found Graystripe in the 
main clearing with several cats standing around him as 


he arranged hunting patrols. “Cloudtail, you can go 
with Thornclaw,” he was telling the white warrior. 
“Who do you want for a third? Willowpelt?” 

‘TI go,” Firestar interrupted, bounding up to them. 
“I feel as if I haven’t had a good hunt for moons.” 

“Thanks.” Graystripe nodded to him. “In that case, 
Willowpelt, you can come with Brackenfur and me. 
We’ ll head toward Fourtrees and see if we can spot 
that fox.” 

Once outside the camp, Firestar let Thornclaw take 
the lead. The tabby warrior took them down a trail that 
led to Twolegplace. Everything was quiet; even the 
prey seemed to be hiding. Firestar paused, gazing 
through the trees at the fence that edged the Twoleg 
nests, and wondered where SkyClan’s territory had 
been. The border must have been near here, if they 
had been driven out when the Twolegs built their nests. 
When they built his old Twoleg nest, Firestar realized 
with a jolt. His paws prickled at the thought that he 
might have once lived in part of SkyClan’s old 
territory! 

Cloudtail and Thornclaw had vanished among the 
trees to search for prey. Firestar dragged his thoughts 


away from SkyClan. He had a Clan to feed. He 
opened his jaws; a strong scent of mouse flowed over 
his scent glands, and he spotted the creature scrabbling 
at the edge of a bramble thicket. Dropping into the 
hunter’s crouch, he prowled forward, setting each paw 
down as lightly as a falling leaf. 

But before he came within pouncing distance, a 
white blur appeared at the corner of his eye. He 
whipped his head around, furious with Cloudtail for 
creeping up on him. Go and catch your own prey! 
But the white blur had vanished, and a wisp of now- 
familiar scent told him that it hadn’t been Cloudtail 
after al. The SkyClan leader had crossed his path 
once more. 

Firestar stood still, his tail flicking back and forth. 
“Are you there?” he called softly. “What do you want? 
Come and talk to me!” 

There was no reply. 

By now the mouse had vanished. Firestar opened 
his mouth and breathed in, trying to track down more 
prey. His ears strained to pick up the least sound of 
tiny paws; instead, all he could hear was a furious 
yowling and scuffling that broke out somewhere ahead, 


near the Twoleg fence. Was something—maybe a 
Twoleg dog—attacking his warriors? 

He raced through the trees until he came to the 
edge of the wood. Ashfur and Brambleclaw were 
scufflng with an unfamiliar black-and-white cat. 
Brambleclaw had climbed onto the cat’s back, clawing 
at its neck fur, while Ashfur bit down hard on the end 
of its tail. 

The black-and-white cat was writhing on the 
ground, his flailing paws barely touching his attackers. 
“Get off me!” he yowled. “I need to see Rusty—I 
mean Firestar!” 

Firestar suddenly recognized the disheveled bundle 
of black-and-white fur. It was Smudge, the kittypet 
who had been his friend before Firestar left his 
Twolegs to live in the forest. 

“Stop!” He ran over to the wrestling cats, lowering 
his head to butt Brambleclaw hard in his flank. 
Brambleclaw slid off Smudge’s back, glaring up with a 
furious hiss that broke off when he realized who had 
interrupted the fight. 

“Leave him alone,” Firestar ordered. 

“But he’s an intruder,’ Brambleclaw protested, 


scrambling to his paws and shaking dust from his pelt. 

“A kittypet intruder,’ added Ashfur, reluctantly 
letting go of Smudge’s tail. 

“No, he’s not,’ Firestar corrected them. “He’s a 
friend. What are you two doing here, anyway?” 

“We’re the border patrol,’ Brambleclaw told him. 
“With Dustpelt and Mousefur. Look, here they come.” 

Following the direction of his pointing tail, Firestar 
spotted the two older warriors bounding rapidly through 
the trees. 

“In StarClan’s name, what’s going on?” Dustpelt 
demanded. “I thought a fox must have gotten you from 
all that noise.” 

“No, just a kittypet,” Firestar mewed, faintly amused 
at Brambleclaw’s and Ashfur’s outraged expressions. 
“Okay, carry on with your patrol,” he added. 

“But what about the kittypet?” Ashfur asked. 

“I think I can handle him,” Firestar mewed. ““You’re 
doing fine, but just remember that not everythng you 
haven’t seen before is a threat.” 

Brambleclaw and Ashfur fell in behind Dustpelt and 
Mousefur as they continued their patrol; Brambleclaw 
cast a threatening glance back at Smudge and hissed, 


“Stay off our territory in the future!” 

Smudge heaved himself to his paws, glaring at his 
attackers. His fur was covered in dust and stuck out in 
all directions, but he didn’t seem to be hurt. 

“You’re lucky I was here to save your pelt,” Firestar 
remarked as the patrol vanished among the trees. 

His old friend let out a furious snort. “Pl never 
understand you, Firestar. You actually want to live with 
these violent ruffians?” 

Firestar hid his amusement. There was no point 
trying to explain that these violent ruffians were 
warriors who had risked their lives at his side time and 
time again. 

“It’s good to see you again, Smudge,” he meowed. 
“Why did you come so far into the forest? You know 
it’s dangerous for you.” 

Smudge looked away, scuffling the ground with his 
forepaws. 

“Well?” Firestar prompted, when Smudge had been 
silent for several heartbeats. 

The kittypet blinked. “T...I think,” he began haltingly, 
“that is, I’m afraid I might have to come and live in the 
forest with you.” 


“Great StarClan! Whats happened? It’s not 
BloodClan, is it?” Firestar asked fearfully. 

Smudge looked up for a moment. “Who?” 

“Never mind. Your Twolegs, then—they haven’t 
thrown you out, have they?” 

“No! My housefolk have always been very good to 
me.” Smudge cast a longing look over his shoulder 
toward the red stone nest where he lived. “It’s just... 
well, Pve been having these weird dreams, and I 
remember you told me that you had dreams before 
you went to join the forest cats.” Horror gleamed in his 
eyes, and Firestar, for all his sympathy, found himself 
hiding a purr of amusement that his old friend couldn’t 
imagine anything worse than having to live in a Clan. “I 
thought my dreams must mean I’d have to leave my 
housefolk.” 

Firestar swept his tail around to touch his old friend 
on the shoulder. “I wouldn’t worry. Dreams have many 
meanings, and sometimes a dream is just a dream. I’m 
sure you won’t have to eat bones just yet.” 

Smudge didn’t look reassured. “But these dreams 
are terrible!” he mewed. “I keep seeing lots of cats— 
they’re running away, but I never get to see what’s 


chasing them. They’re wailing and shrieking as if 
they’re scared or in pain. And sometimes I see a gray- 
and-white cat on his own. He keeps opening and 
closing his mouth as if he’s trying to tell me something, 
but I can’t hear what he’s saying.” 

Every hair on Firestar’s pelt bristled. Smudge was 
having the same dreams as him! But why? Surely 
SkyClan didn’t think that a kittypet could help them? 

“What do you think?” Smudge asked nervously. “Do 
I have to come and live in the forest?” 

Firestar knew he had to decide how much to tell his 
friend. Though his faith in StarClan had been badly 
shaken, he still felt some loyalty toward them. At least, 
he didn’t think he could tell Smudge how StarClan had 
allowed SkyClan to be driven from the forest, and then 
lied about it afterward. Besides, if he tried to explain, 
how much would Smudge understand? He had no idea 
about the warrior code, or what it was like to live in a 
Clan. 

“Don’t worry about it,” he meowed at last. “There’s 
no reason for you to leave your Twolegs.” 

“Are you sure?” 

“Positive. I know a bit about these dreams already, 


and I’m trying to sort everything out.” 

Smudge looked puzzled but relieved as well. “I 
guess PII let you handle it, then.” 

Firestar was glad he didn’t think to ask how a forest 
cat—even a Clan leader—could know about another 
cat’s dreams. “TIl come back with you to your Twoleg 
nest,” he mewed. “Just in case any of those violent 
ruffians are still hanging about.” 

Smudge looked down at his messy fur and gave it a 
few swift licks. Then he and Firestar padded side by 
side through the trees. As the Twoleg fence came into 
sight, Firestar spotted a vole pattering through the long 
grass. He made a swift pounce, and straightened up 
with the limp body hanging from his jaws; he tried to 
push down a stirring of pride that he had been able to 
show off his hunting skills in front of Smudge. 

His friend’s eyes were wide, but not with 
admiration. “Don’t you ever get tired of having to 
catch your own food?” 

Firestar dropped his fresh-kill and scraped leaves 
over it so that he could collect it later. “No, never. 
That’s what warriors do.” 

Smudge shrugged, and went on toward his nest. 


Catching up with him, Firestar spotted another cat, a 
pretty brown tabby, jumping down from the fence 
around the Twoleg nest where he had once lived. He 
remembered seeing her before when he had been 
showing the territory to his new apprentice, 
Bramblepaw. 

“Hi,” she meowed. Her amber eyes examined 
Firestar without a trace of fear. “Who’s this, Smudge? 
I’ve never seen him before.” 

Smudge twitched one ear. “His name’s Firestar. He 
lives in the forest.” 

‘Tm called Hattie,’ the tabby introduced herself. 
“T’ve never met a forest cat before. How do you know 
Smudge?” 

‘Pve known him since I was a kit,” Firestar 
explained. “T used to live here, in this Twoleg nest.” 

“Really? But this is my home now!” The tabby’s 
eyes stretched wide. “Why did you leave?” 

“Its a long story.” Firestar didn’t expect any 
kittypet, even this lively tabby, to understand what had 
called him out of his safe life with Twolegs to the 
danger and excitement of the forest. 

“T’ve got time to listen,” Hattie meowed. 


Firestar was aware of Smudge close beside him, 
quivering with tension. “Sorry,” he meowed. “Maybe 
another time.” 

Hattie looked disappointed. “Don’t you want to see 
where you used to live?” she mewed persuasively. 
“My Twolegs dug up a bush that was so old its roots 
stretched nearly the whole way across the garden, and 
planted some new trees that are great for scratching.” 

Firestar opened his jaws to refuse, but the words 
didn’t come. He stood silent, gazing at the fence. An 
old bush...how old? Suppose it had been here before 
the Twoleg nests were built? Did that mean it had been 
here when SkyClan lived in the forest? Were there 
any other remnants of SkyClan’s former territory that 
might have survived? 


CHAPTER 7 


“Firestar, why are you standing there with your 
mouth open?” Smudge asked crossly. 

“Sorry.” For a moment Firestar had been caught up 
in the lost world of SkyClan, gaping as if he expected 
prey to jump into his jaws. “Okay,” he added to Hattie. 
“TIl have a quick look from the fence.” Flicking his tail 
to draw Smudge a couple of pawsteps away, he 
murmured, “I won’t be long. This might help with your 
dreams.” 

Smudge looked doubtful, and shot an anxious glance 
at Hattie. 

“Don’t worry; I won’t tell her anything,” Firestar 
promised. 

He sprang up to sit on the fence and looked down 
into the garden. He remembered the bush now: it had 
been brittle and straggly, and some of its branches had 
been leafless. In the place where it had been a new 
young tree was growing with soft, tempting bark; from 
his place on the fence Firestar could see Hattie’s claw 
marks scoring the trunk. 


Hattie leaped up beside him and pointed with her 
tail. “That’s where the bush used to be, and there’s the 
scratching tree. And there’s another new one, next to 
Smudge’s fence, that’s even better.” 

Firestar heard scrabbling farther along the fence, 
and Smudge hauled himself up to sit beside Hattie. 
“Well, what do you see?” he demanded in a low voice. 

“Nothing yet,’ Firestar admitted. He studied the 
Twoleg nests, trying to imagine what this part of the 
forest would have been like before the trees were cut 
down. 

His eyes narrowed as he glanced up and down the 
row of nests. Smudge’s nest lay in a slight dip, lower 
than the others. If Firestar had been leading a Clan 
back then, and had to choose a place for a camp, he 
would have wanted it in a sheltered hollow, perhaps 
with bramble bushes for extra protection, like the 
WindClan camp. He drew in a swift breath, feeling 
every hair on his pelt stand on end. Could Smudge’s 
nest have been built right on top of the old SkyClan 
camp? That might explain why he had been dreaming 
so vividly about the fleeing cats. 

“Smudge,” he began, interrupting a discussion 


between his friend and Hattie about catmint, “is it okay 
if I stay with you tonight?” 

Smudge blinked in surprise. “Of course. But will it 
be okay with...with the other cats in your Clan?” 

His concern moved Firestar. Smudge might be a 
kittypet, but he was a true friend. “They’ll be fine, I 
promise. I just think this will help me figure out, you 
know, what we were talking about earlier.” 

“Oh, I see.” Smudge looked alarmed as he added, 
“But I’m not sure how easy itll be getting you inside 
the nest.” 

“I don’t need to come inside,” Firestar told him. 
StarClan forbid! ‘TIl be fine in the garden, thanks.” 

The black-and-white cat nodded. “Okay. Well, come 
on over.” 

‘Tve got to find my Clanmates first and let them 
know I won’t be back tonight.” 

Firestar jumped down from the fence, back into the 
forest. Behind him, he heard Hattie meowing 
inquisitively, “Why does Firestar want to stay in your 
garden? Why doesn’t he want to stay in mine?” 

Firestar raced through the trees until he reached the 
place where he had last seen his Clanmates. Before he 


could begin tracking them by scent, Thornclaw 
appeared from behind a clump of brambles, carrying 
two mice by their tails. 

He dropped his prey in front of Firestar. “I thought 
you must have gone back to camp.” 

“No, something’s come up.” Firestar was reluctant 
to explain any further. “I won’t be back until tomorrow. 
There’s nothing wrong,’ he added, seeing that 
Thornclaw was starting to look worried. “Just tell 
Graystripe that he’s in charge until then.” 

“Okay. Cloudtail and I are just about ready to take 
our prey back.” 

Firestar said good-bye and retraced his pawsteps 
through the trees to the Twoleg nests. There was no 
sign of Smudge, but Hattie was sitting where he had 
left her. 

“You still haven’t told me how you joined your 
Clan,” she mewed as Firestar leaped up onto 
Smudge’s fence. She sounded put out. “Don’t you 
want to visit your old home properly?” 

Firestar didn’t want to upset her, and he was curious 
to see the place where he had spent the first moons of 
his life. Balancing carefully, he walked along the fence 


to Hattie’s side. “All right, P Il come for a little while.” 

Hattie let out a little trill of pleasure and leaped 
down into her garden. Firestar followed; his nose 
twitched at the unfamiliar scents. The flowers seemed 
to glare at him in the sunlight, and the close-cut grass 
pricked his pads. Everything seemed familiar and yet 
strange, as if he were gazing through some other cat’s 
eyes at something he had never experienced himself. 

“Come and have a scratch,” Hattie invited, racing 
over to the tree and standing on her hind paws to score 
her claws down the length of the trunk. “It’s really 
good.” Whirling, she pointed with her tail. “And that’s 
the bush where birds come hopping after snails. Did 
they do that when you were here?” 

“Yes,” Firestar replied, chasing the vague memory. 
“Have you ever tried to catch one?” 

Hattie wrinkled her nose with distaste. “Why would 
I want to do that? There would be blood and feathers 
everywhere—ugh!” 

Firestar bit back an annoyed response. A kittypet 
couldn’t understand that a bird—even the scrawniest, 
toughest thrush—might be the only thing that kept a 
Clan cat from starvation. 


“I used to stalk the birds,’ he remarked, padding 
over to the bush and ducking underneath its branches. 
“I never caught one, though. They were too quick for 
me. I learned how to catch prey when I went into the 
forest.” 

“I can’t understand why you left your housefolk,” 
Hattie mewed, padding over to sit beside him. “They 

She broke off at the sound of footsteps approaching. 
Firestar sprang up and whipped around to see his 
former Twolegs walking down the path that led around 
the side of the nest. They had a kit with them—a 
female, staggering along on short, stubby legs, and 
clinging with one paw to her mother. 

Before the Twolegs could spot him, Firestar darted 
out of the bush; one outlying branch raked through his 
fur. He flung himself up the wooden strips of the 
fence, over the top, and down into the shade of the 
forest. As soon as his paws touched the ground, he 
dived into the shelter of a clump of ferns and crouched 
there, his ears straining for the sound of the Twolegs 
coming after him. Had he moved fast enough, or had 
they seen him? He couldn’t even be sure they’d 


recognize him after so many seasons, but it wasn’t 
worth the risk. 

Gradually his breath slowed. Everything was quiet in 
the Twoleg gardens. He couldn’t hear any sounds of 
Twolegs searching for him, only the rustle of the trees 
and the tiny sounds of scuffling prey. But he stayed 
hidden until the sun began to set, bathing the forest in 
scarlet light. 

Venturing out of the shadow of the fern fronds, he 
scented the vole he had killed earlier, dug it up, and 
devoured it in hungry gulps. Then in the twilight he 
crept cautiously back to the Twoleg nests and scaled 
the fence to land unseen in Smudge’s garden. 

He padded forward, looking for a place to sleep 
near the center of the dip, where he imagined the 
SkyClan camp would have been. A faint sound made 
him jump, but it was only Smudge, dropping down from 
the low branch of a tree. 

“There you are!” the kittypet gasped. “I thought 
you’d gone back to the forest. Hattie told me what 
happened with your old Twolegs.” 

Firestar didn’t want to talk about that. “I just kept 
out of sight until they’d gone,” he explained. 


Smudge gave his chest fur a few rapid licks, as if he 
was trying to hide how anxious he had been. “Are you 
sure you'll be able to sleep out here?” he went on. 
“Tt’ll be cold now that the sun’s gone.” 

“Smudge, I sleep out every night,” Firestar reminded 
him. “I’m used to it. I don’t think I could sleep inside a 
Twoleg nest if I tried.” 

Smudge blinked. “Oh, okay. I just thought—” 

He broke off as the door of the nest swung open 
and yellow light poured out into the dusky garden. A 
female Twoleg stood there, yowling, with a bowl in her 
hand. 

‘T’ve got to go,’ Smudge meowed, while Firestar 
crouched down behind a clump of feathery grasses. 
“My supper’s ready. Are you sure—” 

Firestar suppressed a sigh. “TIl be fine, honestly.” 

“Good night, then.” Smudge ran across the grass 
with his tail in the air and rubbed against the Twoleg. 
She bent down to stroke him, then closed the door. 

Firestar padded down into the dip until he reached a 
bush covered with sweet-smelling white flowers that 
glimmered pale in the dim light. Sliding underneath the 
low-growing branches, he scraped out a rough nest, 


and sneezed as a couple of petals drifted down onto his 
nose. 

As he curled up, he thought how strange it felt to be 
back in Twolegplace after so long. The fait sounds 
coming from the nest were oddly familiar, and so was 
the orange light spreading over the sky. The harsh 
glow hid the stars, so that Firestar felt even farther 
away from his warrior ancestors. Gazing up through 
the branches, he formed a silent prayer, but it was not 
to StarClan. 

Warrior of SkyClan, wherever you are, visit me in 
my dreams. 

Damp cold woke him, soaking into his pelt. Above 
his head, the orange sky was softened by mist. 
Shivering, he crawled out from under the bush to 
stretch his stiff legs, and froze midway through a 
stretch. 

The gray-and-white cat was sitting a few tail- 
lengths away. Mist wreathed around him, and he 
watched Firestar with eyes the color of a pale winter 
sky. 


“I have been waiting for you,” he meowed. 


CHAPTER 8 


“Wh-who are you?” Firestar stammered. “What’s 
your name?” 

The strange cat looked at him blankly. “It’s been so 
long since any cat spoke my name, I don’t need it 
anymore.” His eyes spoke to Firestar of deep sadness; 
his voice ached with it, so that Firestar could hardly 
bear to listen. 

“Do you come from SkyClan?” he asked, though he 
was almost sure what the answer would be. 

The pale-furred cat twitched his whiskers in 
surprise. “You know of SkyClan, then?” 

“A little,’ Firestar mewed. “I spoke with a warrior 
of StarClan. She told me that there were once five 
Clans in the forest, but SkyClan left when—” 

“Left?” The SkyClan warrior’s voice was full of 
contempt. “We didn’t leave. The other Clans drove us 
out of the forest because they said there was no room 
for us anymore.” 

Firestar stared at him. When he had spoken to 
Bluestar, she had let him believe that SkyClan had 


gone away of their own accord when the Twoleg 
monsters had invaded their territory. She never told 
him that the other Clans had driven them away. Surely 
the warrior code wouldn’t allow it? Yet he couldn’t 
suppress a nagging thought: would he want to give up 
any of ThunderClan’s territory if another Clan had 
asked for it? 

“Couldn’t StarClan do anything to help you?” he 
asked. 

“StarClan!” The SkyClan cat spat out the word, 
lashing his tail. “StarClan betrayed us. They allowed 
the other Clans to chase us out like rogues. When we 
left the forest, I vowed that I would never look to the 
stars again.” 

“A Clan without warrior ancestors?” Firestar was 
bewildered. 

“Our medicine cat still walked with them in 
dreams,” the SkyClan cat told him. “And many of our 
warriors kept to the old ways. I never tried to stop 
them. They had lost their home; how could I take the 
warrior code away from them as well?” 

The strange cat spoke as though he had been the 
leader of his Clan. But before Firestar could ask him if 


this was true, the pale-furred warrior straightened up 
and looked around. “Once we roamed over all this 
territory, patrolled our borders, and caught as much 
prey as we wanted. But then the Twolegs came.” The 
throbbing note of sadness returned to his voice, raising 
every hair on Firestar’s pelt. “This was once our 
camp,” he went on, indicating Smudge’s garden with a 
sweep of his tail. “Where we are standing used to be 
the warriors’ den. The Twoleg nest stands where our 
nursery was. Our apprentices’ den was beneath ferns 
along the line of the fence, and under those bushes 
over there was where our elders slept.” He sighed. “It 
was all so long ago....” 

“Where is the SkyClan camp now?” 

The gray-and-white cat stared at his paws. 
“SkyClan have no camp,” he mewed quietly. “My Clan 
has broken apart and scattered.” 

Firestar was puzzled. “Then there’s no SkyClan 
anymore?” 

The SkyClan warrior’s neck fur bristled and he 
drew back his lips in the beginning of a snarl. “T did not 
say that. I said that our home has gone and my 
Clanmates have scattered. Some became rogues, and 


some went to live with Twolegs as kittypets. But 
SkyClan still lives, although the cats have forgotten 
their heritage and the warrior code.” 

Bewildered, Firestar wondered how the other cat 
could insist SkyClan survived without any territory, if it 
had broken up and no cat knew the warrior code. 
What made a Clan if their home and heritage were 
gone? 

“So why have you come to me?” he asked. 

“Because you're the only cat who can help us,” the 
warrior replied. He padded forward until he stood 
within a tail-length of Firestar, and his faint, fugitive 
scent wreathed around the ThunderClan leader. “You 
must rebuild SkyClan before it is lost forever.” 

Firestar stared at him. How could he rebuild a 
scattered Clan, when he had no idea how to find its 
cats, and he had a Clan of his own to lead? “But I—” 

The SkyClan warrior ignored him. “You must follow 
the river to its source,’ he commanded. “We fled 
upstream, and that is where you will find the remnants 
of the Clan, and a place where they can live.” 

Firestar’s mind whirled. “But...but why me?” 

The gray cat fixed his gaze on Firestar, his eyes 


glowing with sorrow. “I have waited long for you to 
come, a strong cat, a leader, and one who bears no 
taint of our betrayal in his blood. You are not 
descended from the cats that drove us out, and yet you 
are a true Clan warrior. It is your destiny to restore 
SkyClan.” 

Mist swirled around him and his pelt seemed to fade 
into it, leaving Firestar gazing at the patch of grass 
where he had stood. Only his scent lingered. 

Firestar sat down and wrapped his tail over his 
paws. He still had not moved when the first traces of 
dawn appeared in the sky. 


The faint wailing of a cat roused him. He sprang to 
his paws, fur bristling. Was the camp being attacked? 
Then he remembered where he was; besides, the 
wailing sounded more impatient than terrified. 

Suddenly the door of the Twoleg nest opened and 
Smudge shot out. 

“Honestly!” he panted, hurtling over the grass. 
“Sometimes I think my Twolegs are stupid! I asked 
and asked to come out, but would they get up and open 


the door?” 

“Well, you’re here now,” Firestar meowed, glad that 
he didn’t have to depend on Twolegs for his freedom. 

“Well? Did you dream about my cats?” Smudge 
demanded. 

Firestar nodded. “I spoke to the gray-and-white cat, 
and I know what I have to do now.” 

“What you have to do? But what about me? Why 
did I get the dreams as well?” 

Firestar raised his tail to silence Smudge’s anxious 
questions. “The cats you saw left the forest a long time 
ago,” he explained. “Now they’re asking for help. You 
dreamed about them because this is where they used 
to live.” 

“Here?” Smudge gazed around his garden as if he 
expected the long-lost cats to emerge from the bushes 
right then. “So you’re going to help them?” 

“Yes, if I can.” 

When Firestar saw the relief in Smudge’s eyes, he 
wondered if that was exactly true. He would have to 
leave his Clanmates and go on a long journey without 
knowing where it led. He would have to find a 
scattered Clan that had long since been abandoned by 


StarClan. Why should it be his destiny to save them, 
whether or not ThunderClan’s ancestors carried the 
guilt of driving them out? His duty lay with 
ThunderClan, and with the warrior code he had known 
ever since he came into the forest. 

‘Td better go,” he mewed to Smudge. “PI tell the 
patrols to keep a lookout for you—and not to jump on 
you.” 

“Thanks,” Smudge replied. “I’m really grateful, 
Firestar. You’re a good friend, but I’m glad I don’t 
have to come and live with you in the forest!” 

“T’m glad too.” Firestar gave Smudge a friendly flick 
on the ear with the tip of his tail. “I know you wouldn’t 
like it.” 

“Good-bye, then. PI see you around sometime.” 
Smudge began retreating toward the door of the nest, 
glancing over his shoulder to add, “Let’s hope they can 
be a bit quicker letting me in.” 

Determined to be gone before Smudge’s Twolegs 
found him in their garden, Firestar bounded across the 
grass and leaped to the top of the fence. 

“Good-bye, Firestar!” It was Hattie’s voice; Firestar 
spotted her in the next garden, balanced on a low 


branch of the scratching tree. He waved his tail to her 
in farewell. “Come and see us again!” she called as he 
sprang down from the fence and plunged back into the 
shadow of the trees. 

Once he was out of sight of the Twoleg nests he 
slowed his pace. For once the forest seemed strange 
to him. He felt oddly detached from it, as if it weren’t 
real anymore. Instead, he kept thinking of the 
moorland, and the wails of fleeing cats. Was he really 
meant to be following in their pawsteps? 

After the damp night, the sun had risen into a clear 
blue sky. Every bush was draped with glittering 
cobwebs, and dew sparkled on every blade of grass, 
soaking Firestar’s fur as he brushed through. He 
halted, his paws tingling when he picked up the scent 
of approaching cats, only to relax as Thornclaw pushed 
through a clump of ferns, closely followed by Sootpaw, 
Sootpaw’s mother, Willowpelt, and Ashfur. 

Firestar gave his pelt an annoyed shake. Of course, 
this was the dawn patrol! Was his mind so full of 
SkyClan that he couldn’t recognize the scent of his 
own Clanmates? 

“Hi, Firestar.” Thornclaw padded up to him. 


“Everything okay?” 

“Yes—everything’s fine.” Firestar wasn’t about to 
explain why he had spent the night away from camp. 

Thornclaw exchanged a swift glance with 
Willowpelt, then turned back to his Clan leader. 
“Graystripe suggested I should take Sootpaw out with 
me today,” he meowed, resting the tip of his tail on the 
apprentice’s shoulder. “Longtail can’t mentor him 
when his eyes are so bad.” 

“Good idea.” A pang of guilt stabbed Firestar like a 
claw; he should have thought about Sootpaw’s training 
as soon as his mentor, Longtail, had his accident. His 
dreams of SkyClan were distracting him from his duty 
to his Clan. “In fact,” he went on, “I think you should 
take over as Sootpaw’s mentor until Longtail is fit 
again.” If he ever is. Firestar didn’t dare say it out 
loud. He was reluctant to admit, even to himself, that 
Cinderpelt wouldn’t be able to save Longtail from 
blindness. 

Thornclaw’s eyes gleamed. He was a young 
warrior, and so far he hadn’t had an apprentice. 
“Thanks, Firestar!” he meowed. 

‘Pll announce it later today,” Firestar promised. 


“Providing Longtail agrees.” 

“T’m sure he will,’ Sootpaw put in. “I’ve been taking 
him fresh-kill and fixing his bedding, and I can still do 
that.” 

“Good.” Firestar gave him an approving nod. 
Needing to plunge himself back into the life of his Clan, 
he added, “TIl join you on patrol, and Sootpaw, you can 
show me your tracking skills.” 

The apprentice’s eyes shone with excitement at the 
thought of training with his Clan leader. As Thornclaw 
led the way along the border toward the Thunderpath, 
Sootpaw kept his nose to the ground, pausing to scent 
the air every few pawsteps. 

“What can you smell?” Firestar meowed. 

“The Thunderpath,” Sootpaw replied promptly. “And 
vole. And a Twoleg with a dog has been along here. 
No—two dogs.” 

“How long ago?” Willowpelt asked. 

“Not today,” Sootpaw mewed. “The scent is stale. 
Maybe yesterday.” 

“That’s what I think, too,” Firestar meowed, while 
Willowpelt let out a purr of satisfaction. “Okay, carry 
on. Sootpaw, tell me if you scent anything else.” 


They were so close to the Thunderpath that Firestar 
could hear the growling of the monsters as they rushed 
up and down. Soon they emerged from the 
undergrowth at the edge of the smooth black surface. 

Sootpaw wrinkled his nose. “It’s really yucky,” he 
complained. “Tt hides all the other scents.” 

“Right,” meowed Thornclaw. “That means you have 
to be extra careful.” 

With the rest of the patrol following, he picked his 
way along the edge of the Thunderpath, keeping well 
away from the huge black paws of the monsters. 
Firestar felt his fur buffeted by the wind as they 
passed by. 

He helped Thornclaw, Ashfur, and Willowpelt renew 
the border scent markings, and watched Sootpaw as 
the apprentice went on practicing his scenting skills. 
Suddenly the young black cat veered away from the 
border. 

“Hey, where do you think you’re going?” Thornclaw 
called. 

Sootpaw glanced back, eyes alight with a mixture of 
excitement and apprehension. “I’ve found a really 
weird scent,” he explained. 


“Well, you can’t follow it now,” Thornclaw told him. 
“This isn’t a hunting patrol.” 

“What sort of weird?” Firestar asked. The reek of 
the Thunderpath was still blocking out most other 
scents. 

“Strong,” Sootpaw replied. “I’ve never smelled it 
before.” 

Firestar exchanged a glance with Thornclaw. “Okay, 
let’s follow it.” 

This time Sootpaw led the way deeper into the 
undergrowth, and as they left the Thunderpath behind, 
Firestar began to pick up the new scent. He halted, his 
fur prickling. “Badger!” 

“Oh, no!” Willowpelt protested. 

Thornclaw snorted. “Just what we need.” Ashfur 
remained silent, but his blue eyes widened. 

“Are badgers bad?” Sootpaw asked. 

“Pretty bad,” Ashfur replied. 

“We certainly don’t want one on our territory,” 
Willowpelt agreed. 

Firestar remembered one leaf-bare, when snow was 
on the ground and prey was scarce. Cloudtail had been 
a kit then, and a hungry badger had attacked him in the 


ravine. Only swift action from Firestar and Brackenfur 
had saved him. Badgers didn’t normally prey on cats, 
but if they were hungry or scared they made 
formidable, deadly opponents. 

“The scent’s fresh,’ he meowed. “We’ll have to 
follow it to find out where the badger is and whether 
it’s going to make a den here. Well done, Sootpaw. 
That was a useful bit of tracking.” 

The apprentice’s eyes glowed. 

“Firestar’s right,’ Thornclaw added. “Now, keep 
behind me, and let’s go.” 

He took the lead, with Sootpaw and Willowpelt hard 
on his paws. Ashfur followed them, while Firestar 
brought up the rear, padding along with the strong 
scent of the badger in his nose. He felt his muscles 
tensing beneath his fur; he half expected a chunky 
black-and-white body to come trampling out of the 
undergrowth. 

The trees began to thin out; the badger trail was 
leading toward Snakerocks. Firestar felt exposed and 
vulnerable, convinced that small, malevolent eyes were 
watching him from every thornbush or bramble thicket. 
This was a bad place for ThunderClan cats. When the 


dogs were loose in the forest they had made their den 
at Snakerocks; Swiftpaw had died in their jaws, and 
Brightheart had received her terrible injuries. Firestar 
imagined he could still scent the reek of spilled blood. 

The tumbled rocks came into view, rising from the 
center of a clearing where the gritty soil was covered 
with small creeping plants and seeding grasses. 

“Stay here,” Thornclaw instructed Sootpaw, 
gesturing with his tail toward a sheltered spot at the 
base of some brambles. “Don’t move, but give a good 
loud yowl if you see anything dangerous.” 

Sootpaw hesitated, as if he wanted to go on tracking 
the badger, then went to crouch in the shelter of the 
brambles with his forepaws tucked under his chest. 
His gray fur melted into the shadows. 

Thornclaw, Willowpelt, and Firestar began to search 
among the rocks. Firestar paused at the mouth of the 
den where the dogs had lived, shivers rippling through 
him from ears to tail tip. He was prepared for the reek 
of dog to come flowing out of the dark hole, but there 
was nothing more than a trace of stale fox. Even the 
fresh badger scent had faded. At first he thought it 
was because the rocks and thin soil wouldn’t hold the 


odor for long. But when he explored further, brushing 
under the low-growing branches of a tree at the edge 
of the clearing, he realized that the badger hadn’t come 
this far into the territory. The scent trail had vanished 
before he reached the rocks. 

“Willowpelt? Thornclaw?” he called. “I’ve lost the 
trail over here.” 

He broke off as a fresh whiff of scent reached him. 
Firestar spun around to see a huge shape, black and 
yellowish white, rearing up from behind the bramble 
thicket, its massive paws ready to slam down on the 
cowering apprentice. 


CHAPTER 9 


“Sootpaw! Move!” Firestar yowled. 

He sprang forward but he didn’t see how he could 
reach Sootpaw before the badger swatted him with its 
blunt, powerful paws. 

Then he spotted Willowpelt diving from the top of a 
rock to streak across the ground and shove Sootpaw 
out of the way with outstretched forepaws. The 
badger landed heavily on her back; her shriek was cut 
off with a sickening crunch as the huge creature 
snapped her neck. It scooped up her limp body with 
one paw and tossed it into the clearing. 

Sootpaw let out a thin, wailing cry. Firestar flung 
himself at the badger, snarling as he raked his claws 
down its side. The huge striped head turned, snapping 
at him with gleaming white teeth. Ashfur dashed in 
from the other side, leaping up to bury his claws in the 
badger’s neck and fasten his teeth in its ear. It shook 
him off easily; Ashfur hit the ground and lay still, 
winded. 

Thornclaw crouched in front of the badger, spitting 


and clawing at its eyes as it loomed over him. Firestar 
scored its flank again, feeling a fierce satisfaction as 
blood welled up in the tracks of his claws. The badger 
let out a bellow of pain. It swung its head from side to 
side, then turned and lumbered off into the 
undergrowth. Thornclaw and Ashfur charged after it 
with earsplitting caterwauls. 

“Come back!” Firestar yowled. “Let it go!” 

Panting, he closed his eyes briefly, listening as the 
sound of the badger’s paws faded into the distance. 
Then he braced himself and padded over to where 
Sootpaw was crouched beside the body of his mother. 
He looked up as Firestar approached, his eyes 
pleading. 

“She’s not dead, is she? She can’t be dead.” 

‘Tm sorry.” Firestar bent his head and touched 
Sootpaw’s forehead with his nose. Only five moons 
had passed since the young cat’s father, Whitestorm, 
had died in the battle with BloodClan. How could 
StarClan let this happen? “She died bravely, like a 
warrior.” 

“She died saving me!” Sootpaw’s voice was shrill 
with anguish. 


“Don’t blame yourself.” Firestar gave his shoulder a 
comforting lick. “Willowpelt knew what she was 
doing.” 

“But she...” Sootpaw fell silent, trembling with 
shock, and pushed his nose into his mother’s fur. 

Firestar looked up to see Thornclaw and Ashfur 
returning; Ashfur was limping heavily. 

“It’s gone toward the Thunderpath,’ Thornclaw 
reported. “I hope a monster gets it.” He padded over 
to Sootpaw and sat beside him, looping his tail over the 
young cat’s shoulders. Sootpaw didn’t look up. 

“Are you okay?” Firestar asked Ashfur. 

The younger warrior flexed his shoulder muscles. “T 
think so. I landed hard; that’s all.” 

“Better let Cinderpelt take a look anyway, when we 
get back to camp.” 

Ashfur nodded. Together he and Firestar lifted 
Willowpelt’s limp body and began to carry her back to 
the ravine. Her drooping tail scored a faint line in the 
dust. Thornclaw followed, leading the stunned 
Sootpaw. 

Wrapped in grief, Firestar didn’t notice the sound or 
scent of approaching cats until Cloudtail emerged from 


a clump of bracken almost under his paws. 

“Firestar, you're back!” the white warrior 
exclaimed. “Are you—” He broke off, his blue eyes 
flaring with alarm. “Thats Willowpelt. What 
happened?” 

Dustpelt and Brackenfur joined Cloudtail to listen, 
horrified, as Firestar set down the dead warrior and 
described how she had given her life to save Sootpaw. 

“Let me get my claws on that badger,” Cloudtail 
hissed when Firestar had finished. “I’ll make it wish it 
had never been kitted.” 

“Shouldn’t we follow it?” Dustpelt suggested. “We 
should make sure it really has gone.” 

Firestar nodded. “It headed for the Thunderpath,” 
he meowed. “Cloudtail, take your patrol and see if you 
can pick up its scent. Follow it and find out what it 
does, if you can, but don ¢ attack it. Is that clear?” 

Cloudtail lashed his tail. “If you say so.” 

“Tf it settles in our territory, we’ll make a plan to get 
rid of it,’ Firestar promised. “But I won’t risk losing 
more cats unless I have to.” 

Muttering under his breath, Cloudtail led his patrol 
back along the trail toward Snakerocks. Great 


StarClan, let them all come back, Firestar prayed as 
they vanished into the undergrowth. 

Firestar’s legs felt heavy with exhaustion as he and 
Ashfur struggled to maneuver Willowpelt’s body 
through the gorse tunnel. Pain for his Clanmates 
stabbed deep into his heart. He was their leader; he 
was supposed to protect them, not let cats die when he 
was with them. 

When he reached the clearing, Graystripe and 
Sandstorm were sitting together by the fresh-kill pile. 
They exchanged a questioning glance when they 
spotted him; Firestar guessed they were wondering 
why he had spent the night away from camp. 
SkyClan’s troubles crashed over him again, heavier 
than the weight of Willowpelt’s body, but he had to 
push them away. There was no time to think of the lost 
Clan now. 

Both cats sprang up and raced over to him. 

“Firestar, what happened?” Graystripe asked. 

“PI tell you soon,” Firestar promised hoarsely. “I 
have to take Willowpelt to Cinderpelt first, so she can 
prepare for the vigil.” 

“TI let her know.” Sandstorm spun around and sped 


off to the medicine cat’s den. 

By the time Firestar and Ashfur had crossed the 
camp, Cinderpelt had emerged from the fern tunnel. 

“Lay her body there,” she directed, pointing with her 
tail to a shady spot under the ferns. “She’ll be out of 
the sun until dusk falls.” 

The two cats did as she suggested; Sootpaw settled 
down beside his mother’s body as if his legs couldn’t 
hold him up another moment. His eyes stared into the 
distance, glazed with horror, as if he couldn’t stop 
reliving that terrible moment. 

“Sootpaw needs something for shock,” Firestar 
murmured to Cinderpelt. “And Ashfur might have 
damaged his shoulder.” 

The medicine cat nodded. “PI fetch him some 
poppyseeds. Ashfur, come with me.” 

As the gray warrior followed Cinderpelt to her den, 
another shriek sounded from the opposite side of the 
camp. Firestar’s head whipped around, and he saw 
Rainpaw and Sorrelpaw racing across from the 
apprentice’s den. Sorrelpaw flung herself down beside 
her mother’s body, pressing herself against her cold 
flank, while Rainpaw halted in front of Firestar. 


“What happened?” he demanded. 

“A badger killed her,’ Firestar replied. “I’m sorry, 
Rainpaw. No cat could have stopped it.” 

The apprentice glared at him for a moment more, his 
fur bristling. Then his head and tail drooped and he 
turned away without a word, to settle down beside his 
brother and sister. 

“They'll all need Cinderpelt to look after them,” 
Sandstorm murmured. 

Firestar was too sick at heart to reply. Brushing his 
mate’s fur with his tail, he trudged across the camp 
and scrambled up onto the Highrock to call the Clan 
for a meeting. Already cats were creeping out of their 
dens, shocked and bewildered as they learned about 
Willowpelt’s death. 

“Cats of ThunderClan,” Firestar began when they 
were all assembled. “Willowpelt is dead. She died 
bravely, and her spirit will be honored in StarClan.” 

“How did it happen?” Speckletail called out. 

Firestar felt as if an extra weight of sorrow 
descended on him every time he had to tell the story. 
“The badger ran off toward the Thunderpath,” he 
finished. “I sent Cloudtail’s patrol to track it.” 


Brightheart, sitting outside the nursery, flinched 
when he mentioned her mate, while Ferncloud drew 
her kits closer to her with a sweep of her tail. Spiderkit 
and Shrewkit pressed themselves into her fur, gazing 
up at Firestar with huge scared eyes. 

“What about my kits?” Ferncloud demanded. “What 
if the badger comes here?” 

“Unlikely,” Firestar replied, flexing his claws on the 
hard rock. “It was a young one, and I think it’s learned 
that cats aren’t easy prey. We’ll know more when 
Cloudtail comes back. I promise you,” he added, “we’ll 
do everything we can to make sure it doesn’t settle in 
our territory.” 

Ferncloud didn’t look convinced, but there wasn’t 
any more he could say to reassure her. 

“Tonight we will sit vigil for Willowpelt,’ he 
announced, and sprang down from the Highrock to 
show that the meeting was over. 

“They’re badly shaken,’ Graystripe commented, 
padding over with Sandstorm to join Firestar outside 
the entrance to his den. 

“Those three apprentices especially,’ Sandstorm 
added, compassion in her green gaze. “This is a bad 


time for them to lose their mother.” 

Firestar nodded sadly. “It’s the first cat we’ve lost 
since the battle with BloodClan. I think it’s hard for all 
of us to understand that even if we’re at peace with 
the other Clans, the forest isn’t completely safe.” 

For some reason, alarm lit in Graystripe’s and 
Sandstorm’s eyes as he spoke, and they exchanged a 
swift glance. Firestar didn’t understand, but after the 
stress of his meeting with the SkyClan warrior, and the 
horrible shock of meeting the badger, he didn’t have 
the energy to question his friends. 

“We’ll talk later,’ he mumbled, and padded slowly 
across the camp to the fresh-kill pile. 


When night had fallen, the elders brought 
Willowpelt’s body into the center of the camp for her 
vigil. Firestar joined them there; he looked up to see 
the stars of Silverpelt blazing, as if they waited to 
welcome Willowpelt’s spirit. 

“She was much loved,’ Dappletail rasped, 
smoothing the gray warrior’s fur with one forepaw. 
“And far too young to die. She had much more to give 


her Clan.” 

“I know,” Firestar agreed, feeling hollow with grief. 
He had been with Willowpelt when the badger 
attacked Sootpaw, but he had been unable to save her. 
Call yourself a leader? he asked himself savagely. 

He watched as Cinderpelt guided the three 
apprentices to their mother’s side; the medicine cat 
murmured comforting words as the young cats 
crouched down and pushed their noses into the still 
gray fur. More of the Clan gathered around, some 
staying for a little while before going silently to their 
dens, while others settled beside Willowpelt’s body to 
keep watch during the night. 

How can I leave now? I cant abandon my Clan 
to go off into the unknown, searching for a Clan 
that doesnt exist anymore. Maybe I cant protect 
them from badgers that kill or rabbits that blind 
them, but my place is still here, serving my Clan. 
Thats what it means to be a leader. 

Firestar looked up at Silverpelt, wondering if the 
starry warriors approved of his decision. But the 
glittering specks of light seemed very far away, and 
they gave no answer. 


He kept watch beside his dead warrior’s body until 
the first rays of dawn reached through the trees. A 
faint breeze ruffled Willowpelt’s fur. Speckletail rose to 
her paws. “It’s time,” she meowed. 

She and the other elders lifted Willowpelt’s body and 
carried it slowly out of the camp for burial. The rest of 
the Clan emerged from their dens and watched them 
go in respectful silence. When Willowpelt’s gray fur 
was lost to sight in the gorse tunnel, Cinderpelt swept 
her tail around to gather the three apprentices close to 
her. 

“No training for them today,’ she told Firestar. 
“They need to rest.” 

Firestar nodded. “You know best, Cinderpelt.” 

His limbs stiff from crouching all night, he stumbled 
to his paws and headed for his den. As soon as he 
sank into the soft moss of his bedding, darkness swept 
over him like a crow’s wing. 

The sparkling scent of swift-flowing water flooded 
around him, and Firestar found himself walking beside 
a river. Sunlight danced on the surface; the silver 
shapes of fish flickered in the shallows. He paused and 
looked around. The trees and bushes on the riverbank 


were unfamiliar, and he knew that he was dreaming. 

There was a sudden turbulence in the water, and a 
cat’s head broke the surface, a plump silver fish 
gripped tightly in its jaws. As it swam to the bank and 
padded out of the water, Firestar recognized 
Silverstream, the RiverClan cat who had fallen in love 
with Graystripe and died bearing his kits. The drops of 
water clinging to her fur shone as brightly as stars. 

Dropping the fish in front of him, she meowed, 
“Greetings, Firestar. This fish is for you.” When he 
hesitated, she pushed it closer to him. “Go on, eat.” 

“But it isn’t a ThunderClan fish,” Firestar protested. 
“I don’t want to steal prey.” 

Silverstream let out a little mrrow of amusement. 
“You're not stealing; it’s a gift. It’s not a RiverClan fish 
either. You looked hungry, so I thought I would catch 
you some food.” 

“Thank you.” Firestar didn’t hesitate any longer. 
Sinking his teeth into the fish, he thought he had never 
tasted anything so delicious. With every mouthful he 
felt strength pouring back into his tired body. 

While he was still eating, Silverstream padded closer 
to him and mewed softly into his ear, “Remember the 


life I gave you when you became leader of your Clan? 
I told you it was for loyalty to what you know to be 
right. Firestar, that isn’t always the same as following 
the warrior code.” When he turned to her in surprise, 
she added in a whisper, “I always knew it was right for 
me and Graystripe to be together, even though we 
came from different Clans. There are some things that 
are too big to be contained in the warrior code.” 

She touched her nose to his flank, then padded back 
to the river and launched herself into the water. 

“Good-bye, Silverstream,” Firestar called. 

He thought he heard her last word of farewell 
shivering in the air as the dazzle of light on the water 
swallowed her up. Where she had vanished, the image 
of fleeing SkyClan cats appeared, leaping and 
flickering through the waves. Then Firestar was 
blinking awake in his own den, with the taste of fish in 
his mouth and his belly comfortably full. 

Silverstream obviously believed he should go on the 
journey to find SkyClan. The warrior code did not 
account for everything that happened beneath the 
stars, and now he had to make amends for what the 
other four Clans had done so long ago. Since a 


StarClan cat had come to tell him this, was it the will of 
his warrior ancestors that the lost Clan should be 
restored? Perhaps even StarClan felt guilty for what 
they had allowed to happen. 

“T must go,” Firestar murmured aloud. Even though 
he felt his heart torn in two when he thought of leaving 
his Clan, he knew that Graystripe was as loyal to 
ThunderClan as he was, and would care for them until 
he returned. 

He got to his paws, shaking scraps of moss from his 
pelt. When he brushed past the screen of lichen and 
into the clearing, he saw that it was almost sunhigh. 
The long sleep, and the fish Silverstream had given 
him, had brought back his strength, and he knew there 
were many things he must do before he could leave. 

First he padded through the fern tunnel to 
Cinderpelt’s den. Willowpelt’s three kits were curled 
up asleep in the ferns, huddled together for comfort. 
Longtail was lying outside the split in the rock and 
raised his head as Firestar emerged into the clearing. 
“Hi, Firestar.” 

Hope tingled in Firestar’s pads. “Can you see me?” 

Longtail blinked, and Firestar saw that his eyes were 


still inflamed. “Yes...no. I’m not sure,” he replied. 
“You’re just a blur. I think I recognized you by your 
scent.” 

“Your eyes are no better, then?” 

Longtail sighed. “No. I think they’re getting worse.” 

“But I’m not giving up yet.” Cinderpelt emerged 
from her den, speaking around the leaf wrap she 
carried in her jaws. Setting it down beside Longtail, she 
added, “This is a poultice of marigold with juniper berry 
Juice. We’ll see if it helps.” 

“Okay.” Longtail didn’t sound hopeful, but he kept 
his head still while Cinderpelt dabbed the poultice on 
his infected eyes. 

“Did you want something, Firestar?” she asked 
when she had finished, cleaning her paws on the grass. 

“A word with Longtail,” Firestar replied. “It’s about 
Sootpaw,” he began awkwardly, wondering how 
Longtail would react to losing his apprentice. 

“T know, he’s not being mentored,” Longtail mewed 
promptly. “It’s been worrying me.” 

Firestar was relieved that he didn’t have to explain 
what was on his mind. “As soon as he’s fit to train 
again, I think I should find another cat to take over. 


Just until your eyes are better.” 

Longtail’s ears twitched. “You don’t have to lie to 
me, Firestar. I know perfectly well I’m going blind. P1 
never train another apprentice.” 

Firestar exchanged a glance with Cinderpelt. The 
fact that the medicine cat didn’t protest showed him 
that Longtail was probably right. 

“We’ll worry about that when it happens,’ he 
meowed. “Right now, we need to find Sootpaw 
another mentor. Do you think Thornclaw would be a 
good choice?” 

“Yes, he’s very keen. It’s time he had an 
apprentice.” Longtail suppressed a sigh. “Sootpaw will 
do fine with him.” 

“That’s settled, then. Thanks, Longtail.” He 
hesitated, knowing he had to tell Cinderpelt about his 
decision to leave, but not knowing how to begin. 

Her eyes narrowed. “I can tell you’ve something on 
your mind, Firestar,” she meowed. “Spit it out.” 

“I need to talk with you,” he began. “Will you come 
for a walk with me in the forest?” 

Cinderpelt looked startled. “What, now?” She 
flicked her tail toward the sleeping apprentices. “I’ve 


got my paws full with those three.” 

“No, after sunhigh,” Firestar replied. “I need to talk 
to Graystripe and Sandstorm, too. We’ll go once the 
afternoon patrols have been sorted out.” 

Cinderpelt’s blue eyes still looked puzzled, as if she 
was wondering what Firestar had to tell her that 
couldn’t be said in her own den. “Okay, PI take 
Sootpaw, Sorrelpaw, and Rainpaw to the nursery. 
Ferncloud and Brightheart can look after them. It’ll do 
them no harm to be treated like kits for a day or two, 
so soon after losing their mother.” 

“Great,” Firestar mewed. “Pll meet you by the 
fresh-kill pile.” 

But as he brushed back through the fern tunnel, a 
cold stone seemed to weigh in his belly as he 
wondered how his friends would react to his decision. 


Firestar led the way out of the gorse tunnel with 
Graystripe, Sandstorm, and Cinderpelt following close 
behind; his claws flexed nervously as the time came 
closer when he would have to tell them about SkyClan. 

“Cloudtail reported to me just before sunhigh,” 


Graystripe meowed as they climbed up through the 
ravine. “He and his patrol tracked the badger as far as 
the stream, and then they lost the scent in a patch of 
boggy ground.” 

“It sounds as if it was making for ShadowClan 
territory,” Firestar commented. 

Graystripe let out a faint growl of satisfaction. 
“ShadowClan are welcome to it.” 

“But if any of our cats spot one of their border 
patrols, we should pass on a warning,” Firestar pointed 
out. 

His deputy flicked an ear. “That’s just like you, 
Firestar. You want to help every Clan, not just your 
own. Okay, IIl tell the next patrols when they go out.” 

“And what’s all this about wanting to go into the 
forest to talk to us?” Sandstorm’s whiskers twitched 
irritably. “Why couldn’t you tell us in the camp?” 

Firestar let his gaze travel over her sleek ginger pelt 
and luminous green eyes. He knew he had a lot to 
explain, but he couldn’t work out why she was so 
upset now, before he had said a word. 

“I wanted to talk somewhere we wouldn’t be 
interrupted,” he meowed. “You’ll understand soon.” 


He padded on, not saying any more until the four 
cats came to a glade hidden deep among the trees. 
The ground was covered with sweet-smelling grass 
and soft mounds of moss. Firestar found a place to sit 
among the knotted roots of an oak tree, and his friends 
settled around him in the sun-dappled shade. The only 
sounds were the rustle of wind in the branches and the 
high piping of birds. 

Firestar looked at the three cats who meant more to 
him than any others in the Clan. “I’ve been having a lot 
of dreams recently,” he meowed, feeling as if he were 
about to plunge over the edge of a bottomless gorge. 
“For a long time they confused me, but I think I know 
their meaning now. And I’ve had to make a very hard 
decision....” 

“But what about us?” Sandstorm blurted out, her 
claws tearing at the moss. “How can you go off and 
leave us?” 

Firestar stared at her. How could she possibly have 
guessed that he meant to leave ThunderClan? “You’ll 
be fine, honestly—” 

“No, we won’t!” Sandstorm spat back at him. “We 
need you. ThunderClan needs you as their leader! 


How can you even think of abandoning us like this?” 

Firestar glanced from his mate to Cinderpelt and 
Graystripe. The medicine cat’s eyes were blank with 
shock, but Graystripe’s gaze was full of sorrow and 
compassion. 

“T don’t understand,” Firestar mewed. “How did you 
know? And what makes you think PI never come 
back?” 

“Because you spent the night with your old 
Twolegs,” Graystripe rasped. He turned his head away 
as if he couldn’t bear to go on looking at his old friend. 
“Do you really care for them more than you care for 
us?” 

“What?” Firestar’s eyes stretched wide with 
dismay. “You think I’d abandon my Clan to go and be a 
kittypet?” 

“Isn’t that what you’ve brought us here to tell us?” 
Sandstorm challenged him. 

“No! It’s not that at all. This is my home. StarClan 
are my warrior ancestors just as much as yours. I 
couldn’t live anywhere else but the forest.” 

“So perhaps you’ll tell us what you are going to do,” 
Cinderpelt meowed tartly. 


“Tt’s true that I have to leave—but only for a while.” 
Firestar took a deep breath and told his friends how he 
had been visited by an unknown cat, and dreamed of a 
wailing, fleeing Clan. He explained how he had met 
Bluestar when he visited the Moonstone, and what she 
had told him about SkyClan. 

“You mean there were once five Clans in the 
forest?” Sandstorm gasped. 

“Yes. A long time ago, before Twolegplace was 
built.” 

“But Twolegplace has always been there!” 
Graystripe protested. 

“Not according to Bluestar,” Firestar told him. Not 
wanting to shake his friends’ faith, he skirted around 
how StarClan had lied, and hurried on to the next part 
of his story. “That’s why I spent the night in 
Twolegplace. I wasn’t with my old Twolegs. I slept in 
Smudge’s garden—Graystripe, do you remember my 
friend Smudge?” 

Graystripe nodded. “That fat black-and-white 
kittypet.” 

“I thought his garden was a likely place for SkyClan 
to have made their camp, and I was right. The 


SkyClan leader spoke to me in a dream. He told me it 
was my destiny to go and find the scattered cats of 
SkyClan and bring them together again.” 

Graystripe snorted. “And if he had told you it was 
your destiny to fly to the moon, would you have 
believed him?” 

Firestar reached out with his tail and touched his 
deputy gently on the shoulder. “I know it seems 
impossible. But I’ve decided that’s what I must do. I 
must go on a journey to find SkyClan and repair the 
damage done by the other Clans.” 

Graystripe stared at him, his eyes stunned with 
shock. Sandstorm’s gaze was fixed on him too, anger 
and grief flickering in her eyes like minnows in a deep 
green pool. Only Cinderpelt remained calm. 

“I can tell how much this means to you,” she 
mewed. “And if it is really your destiny, then you must 
go wherever your paws lead you. But be careful— 
StarClan may not be able to watch over you. Our 
warrior ancestors do not walk in all skies.” 

“I don’t know how you can even think of doing 
this!” Sandstorm sprang to her paws before Firestar 
could reply to the medicine cat. “What about 


ThunderClan? What about your friends?” She paused, 
then added shakily, “What about me?” 

Firestar felt her pain as if it were his own, like a 
sharp stone that would pierce his pads on every 
pawstep of the journey. Glancing from Graystripe to 
Cinderpelt, he rose and beckoned Sandstorm with his 
tail. 

“Come.” 

He padded a few tail-lengths from the others to a 
sun-warmed spot near the center of the clearing. 
Sandstorm followed reluctantly. 

“I know you never really wanted me for your mate,” 
she mewed as soon as they were out of earshot of the 
other cats. “You’ve always been in love with 
Spottedleaf.” 

Firestar thanked StarClan that he had not mentioned 
his dream encounter with the former ThunderClan 
medicine cat. “I loved Spottedleaf,’ he admitted. “But 
even if she had lived, what could I have done? She 
was a medicine cat. She would never have chosen a 
mate.” 

“So I was second-best?” Sandstorm spoke bitterly, 
not looking at him. 


“Sandstorm...” Firestar pressed against her side, 
curling his tail around her as she tried to move away. 
“You’re not second-best to any cat.” 

“But you can still go off and leave me.” 

“No.” Firestar had spent a long time thinking about 
this. Meeting Sandstorm’s gaze steadily, he went on. “I 
never meant to abandon you. Graystripe and 
Cinderpelt must stay here to look after the Clan, but I 
don’t want to make the journey alone. Sandstorm, 
there’s no other cat I’d rather have with me than you. 
Will you come with me?” 

As he spoke, the grief and anger faded from 
Sandstorm’s eyes. Her green gaze shone, and the sun 
warmed her ginger pelt to the brilliance of flame. “You 
really want me to come?” 

“T really do.” Firestar pressed his muzzle to her 
shoulder. “I don’t think I can do it without you, 
Sandstorm. Please.” 

“Of course I will! I—” Sandstorm broke off. “No, I 
cant, Firestar. What about Sorrelpaw? I’m her 
mentor.” 

Firestar hesitated. Sandstorm had desperately 
wanted an apprentice, and he knew how seriously she 


took the little tortoiseshell’s training. “It won’t do 
Sorrelpaw any harm to have another mentor for a 
while,” he meowed. “It won’t be the first time an 
apprentice has had to change—Sootpaw will have a 
new mentor now, because of Longtail’s bad eyes.” 

Sandstorm nodded slowly. “The experience could be 
good for her,” she murmured. 

“Then that’s settled.” Firestar didn’t ask himself 
what would happen if he hadn’t returned before the 
apprentices were ready to be made warriors. He had 
no idea when he would come back—or if he and 
Sandstorm would come back at all. 

With Sandstorm close by his side, he padded back 
across the grass to the roots of the tree where 
Graystripe and Cinderpelt waited. 

“Sandstorm is coming with me,” he announced. 

Neither Graystripe nor Cinderpelt looked surprised. 

“That’s good,” Graystripe meowed. His shock had 
faded; he had a resolute look in his eyes, and Firestar 
realized all over again what a good friend he was, and 
what a worthy deputy of ThunderClan. “Cinderpelt and 
I will take care of the Clan for you,” he promised. His 
whiskers twitched. “I always knew you had a destiny 


that stretched beyond our territory. Perhaps it’s time 
for fire to save another Clan.” 

“We swear by StarClan, we will keep ThunderClan 
safe for you,” Cinderpelt meowed. 

“Thank you,” Firestar replied, feeling very humble. 
The leaves rustled above his head and he looked up, 
half expecting to see the pale-furred SkyClan leader 
looking down at him from a branch. He saw nothing, 
but in the whispering breeze he seemed to hear his 
words repeated. 

Thank you... 


CHAPTER 10 


Firestar padded through Cinderpelt’s fern tunnel, 
swiping his tongue around his jaws to clear the bitter 
taste of the traveling herbs. Behind him, he could hear 
Sandstorm talking to the medicine cat. 

“Let me make sure I’ve got this straight. Cobweb to 
stop bleeding, marigold for infection, yarrow to get rid 
of poison...” 

“That’s right,’ Cinderpelt replied. “And if you get 
bellyache, watermint or juniper berries are good.” 

Sandstorm began repeating the remedies under her 
breath. In the two days since Firestar had asked her to 
come with him, she had spent most of her time learning 
what she could from Cinderpelt. “Tt’ll be dangerous, 
going off without a medicine cat,” she had explained to 
Firestar. “At least I can learn what the most useful 
herbs are.” 

Firestar emerged from the ferns and bounded across 
to the Highrock. His cats parted in silence to let him 
through; their gazes followed him as he sprang up onto 
the Highrock. 


“They don’t want you to go,” Sandstorm murmured, 
joining him a few moments later. 

“I know.” Firestar suppressed a sigh. Apart from 
leading his warriors into battle against BloodClan, this 
was the hardest thing he had ever had to do as Clan 
leader. 

He looked down to meet the puzzled eyes of his 
Clan. It broke his heart that they seemed hurt by his 
reluctance to tell them about his journey; yet how could 
he tell them where he was going, when he didn’t know 
himself? He had to let them think it was StarClan 
sending him away, not a Clan they’d never heard of, 
with no place left in the forest. 

Graystripe stood at the base of the rock with the 
Clan warriors around him. Firestar spotted Sootpaw 
with Thornclaw, and Sorrelpaw with her new mentor, 
Dustpelt. Rainpaw and Cloudtail sat next to them; 
Firestar was glad to see the three apprentices 
beginning to get over the shock of their mother’s death, 
enough to return to training. Brambleclaw was sitting 
with Ashfur and Mousefur. Speckletail was glaring up 
at Firestar as if he were an apprentice who had 
scratched her while searching for ticks. Dappletail and 


One-eye sat close together, whispering and casting 
swift glances up at the cats on the rock. Cinderpelt 
guided Longtail out of her clearing and brought him to 
sit nearby. Outside the nursery Ferncloud sat with 
Brightheart; instead of playing, Ferncloud’s two kits 
crouched close to their mother, as if even they 
understood how troubled the Clan was. 

“Cats of ThunderClan,” Firestar began. “It’s time 
for us to leave—” 

“And what for, that’s what I want to know,” 
Mousefur interrupted, the tip of her tail twitching. 
“StarClan are supposed to look after the forest. Not 
send a Clan leader gallivanting off who knows where.” 

“What can be more important than caring for your 
Clan?” Thornclaw added. 

Firestar couldn’t answer. His warriors were right. 
But they hadn’t heard the cats wailing in the mist; they 
hadn’t seen how desperate the SkyClan leader was to 
find his lost Clan. 

“And what about my kits?” Ferncloud fretted. Her 
claws worked on the dusty ground. “There’s a badger 
somewhere in the territory. Have you thought about 
that?” 


“Yes, of course I have,” Firestar replied, finding his 
voice. “But ThunderClan has a deputy. I trust him to 
look after the Clan just as well as I do. And you have 
Cinderpelt to take care of any injuries and interpret the 
signs of StarClan. No Clan could have a better 
medicine cat.” 

Cinderpelt bowed her head; Graystripe’s eyes 
glowed, while a murmur of agreement rose from the 
rest of the Clan. 

“Firestar wouldn’t leave us unless he had to.” It was 
Brightheart, stepping forward from where she had 
been sitting next to Ferncloud. “If StarClan has told 
him he must go, then we must trust our warrior 
ancestors to take care of him and bring him safely 
back. They have never let us down before—why 
would they take our leader from us now if it wasn’t the 
right thing to do?” 

Firestar’s pelt crawled as the other cats agreed; 
they were obviously comforted by the thought that 
there were good, wise cats watching over them, 
always making the right decisions and fighting for truth 
and honor. But if their faith meant they would let him 
go... 


“They don’t like you going,” Sandstorm murmured, 
“but they will accept it if it is the will of StarClan.” 

Firestar hoped she was right; selfishly, he didn’t 
want to leave with the protests of his Clanmates 
ringing in his ears. He straightened up, even though 
every bone in his body was screaming at him to 
change his mind, to stay in the forest where he 
belonged. “Good-bye, all of you.” 

There was an ominous silence, and Firestar felt his 
pelt singed by many scorching stares. He knew what 
was in his Clanmates’ minds as clearly as if they had 
spoken out loud. Where are you going? Why are you 
leaving us? Has StarClan promised to bring you 
back? He longed to reassure them, but telling them he 
was being sent away by a warrior ancestor they'd 
never even heard of would only cause them more pain 
and confusion. 

At last Sootpaw stepped forward. “Good-bye, 
Firestar!” he called. 

Slowly the other cats joined in. 

“Good-bye!” 

“Travel safely!” 

“Come back soon!” 


Firestar leaped down from the Highrock and wove 
his way through his Clanmates with Sandstorm at his 
shoulder. 

Cinderpelt was waiting for him beside the entrance 
to the gorse tunnel. “Good-bye,” she mewed, swiping 
her tongue over his ear. “May StarClan light your 
path.” 

“And yours,” Firestar replied. A sudden bolt of 
sorrow choked him and he couldn’t say any more. 

Dustpelt came up to Sandstorm, with Sorrelpaw 
bouncing along behind him. “T’ll take care of your 
apprentice,” he promised, fixing the lively tortoiseshell 
with a severe look. “You’ve obviously been far too 
lenient with her.” Though his words were harsh, there 
was a glimmer of amusement in his eyes. 

Sorrelpaw waved her tail, not at all crushed by her 
new mentor’s words. “I think Sandstorm is a great 
mentor!” 

Taking a last look at his Clan, and the clearing that 
had been his home for so many seasons, Firestar 
pushed through the tunnel and out into the ravine. 
Sandstorm and Graystripe followed him. 

The sun had just cleared the tops of the trees, 


shining from a blue sky with a few puffs of white 
cloud. A gentle breeze stirred the branches, carrying 
the scents of prey and green, growing things. Firestar 
stood still for a moment, feeling it ruffle his fur. He 
knew that whatever he found on his journey, there 
could be nowhere as beautiful as this. SkyClan must 
have been devastated to leave. Two days of rest and 
good food had restored his energy, and now that he 
was actually beginning his journey his paws tingled 
with excitement. Though his heart was torn about 
leaving, he wanted to see what lay beyond the forest, 
and to find the cats who had once been SkyClan. 

At the top of the ravine he halted and turned to face 
his deputy—his best friend, and the cat without whom 
he would never have been able to lead his Clan. “Will 
you come to the edge of the forest with us, 
Graystripe?” 

The gray warrior shook his head. “This is your 
journey, yours and Sandstorm’s. I’ll say good-bye here. 
Good luck, both of you.” 

Sandstorm and Firestar leaned forward to touch 
noses with their old friend. “I couldn’t leave if I didn’t 
have you to look after things while I’m gone,” Firestar 


murmured. 

“Every cat knows I can’t fill your pawprints,” 
Graystripe replied. “But PI do my best.” 

“You'll have to take Firestar’s place at Gatherings,” 
Sandstorm reminded him. 

Graystripe nodded. “We mustn’t let ThunderClan 
seem weak. PI tell them you’ve been called away by 
StarClan, but you'll be back soon.” 

“I hope you’re right,” Firestar meowed softly. “But 
if I don’t come back—” 

“Don’t say that!” Graystripe’s tail lashed. “You will 
return; I know it in my heart. I'll wait for you however 
long it takes. Whenever you come back, I will be here, 
just the same.” 


“Which way first?” Sandstorm asked. 

They had left Graystripe behind and were heading 
through the forest toward Sunningrocks. 

“The SkyClan warrior told me that his Clan fled 
upstream,” Firestar replied. “I guess that means we 
should follow the river.” 

“How far?” 


Firestar felt his neck fur begin to bristle, and he 
made himself relax until it lay flat. He didn’t have a 
clue where to find the scattered Clan, or a place where 
they might live. He was even less sure what he would 
have to do to bring the Clan together again. He had 
hoped for more guidance, but his dreams since the 
night he spent in Smudge’s garden had been dark and 
empty. Did that mean that the SkyClan ancestor 
wasn’t watching him any longer? He felt as if he were 
stepping into a dark, dark night without moon or stars 
to guide him. 

“I don’t know,” he admitted. “I suppose StarClan 
will show us, or maybe it’ll be obvious.” 

Sandstorm’s green eyes glinted, and Firestar braced 
himself for a scathing comment, but his mate only 
twitched her whiskers and went on in silence. 

From Sunningrocks, Firestar led the way along the 
RiverClan border until the Twoleg bridge over the river 
came in sight. Here he paused, tasting the air. The 
RiverClan scent markers were strong, but there was 
no fresh scent to suggest that a patrol might be nearby. 

“Okay, come on,” he muttered. 

He and Sandstorm slipped cautiously down the slope 


as far as the bridge, dodging between rocks and 
clumps of gorse to stay out of sight. From there they 
headed upstream, along the top of the gorge. Firestar 
half expected to see the leaping forms of SkyClan cats 
around him, reassuring him that this was the way he 
should go, but there was no sign of them. 

Looking down at the foaming white water, he 
remembered how Bluestar had hurled herself over, 
taking with her the leader of the dog pack. Firestar had 
plunged in to save her; he shivered at the memory of 
the roar of water in his ears, the weight of his soaking 
fur, the exhaustion in his legs as he tried to swim with 
Bluestar’s body gripped in his teeth. 

Then he thought of the last time he had seen her, 
with starshine in her pelt and frosty starlight around her 
paws. She hadn’t wanted to tell him about SkyClan, 
and she had done her best to discourage him from 
going on this journey. Determination flared in Firestar 
like a flame in dry grass. This was his quest, not 
StarClan’s, and if he had to, he would carry it out 
without any help from his warrior ancestors. 

He felt exposed along the bare edge of the gorge, 
but he and Sandstorm reached the border between 


RiverClan and WindClan without being spotted by a 
patrol. A stiff breeze was blowing from the moorland, 
flattening the tough grass and making Firestar feel it 
might blow him off his paws and into the tumbling river 
below. It brought the strong, fresh scent of WindClan 
cats with it. 

“There could be a patrol about,” Sandstorm mewed. 

Firestar tasted the air again; with the wind so strong, 
it was hard to be sure how far away the cats were. 

“We'd better keep going,’ he murmured. “Keep a 
lookout behind.” 

“I would if I had eyes in my tail,’ Sandstorm 
retorted. 

They headed across the border, but they had hardly 
set paw in WindClan’s territory when a rabbit streaked 
across the crest of the moor with a WindClan warrior 
hard on its paws. 

“Get down!” Firestar crouched instinctively, but 
there was no cover in sight. They stayed unseen only 
because the hunter was so intent on his prey. 

Then he noticed a spot on the edge of the gorge 
where the ground had crumbled away. “Quick—that 
way!” he hissed. 


Pushing Sandstorm ahead of him, he crept down the 
cliff face for a tail-length or so, and into the shelter of 
an overhanging rock. He was pulling his tail into hiding 
when he heard the rabbit’s shriek abruptly cut off, and 
another cat call out, “Good catch!” 

“That was close!” Sandstorm breathed. 

Firestar peered out of his hiding place to see two 
cats standing on the edge of the cliff, their heads 
outlned against the sky. He couldn’t make out their 
features, but he recognized his friend Onewhisker’s 
voice. 

“You know, I swear I can smell ThunderClan scent, 
but I can’t see any cat.” 

“They’d better not set paw here.” The second 
voice, an aggressive growl, belonged to Mudclaw, the 
WindClan deputy. “If I catch them, they’ll wish they’d 
never been kitted.” 

“Maybe some cat is going to Highstones,” 
Onewhisker suggested. 

Mudclaw’s reply was an ill-tempered snort. “This 
isn’t the way to Highstones, mouse-brain.” 

Firestar pulled his nose back into cover and pressed 
himself even closer to Sandstorm. 


“You know,” she murmured, “you could just tell 
them where we’re going.” 

Firestar shook his head. He didn’t want the other 
Clans to know that he had left the forest; they would 
find out at the next Gathering, and that was soon 
enough for him. 

Gradually the WindClan scent faded and Firestar 
dared to emerge from their hiding place. Scrambling 
back up the crumbling stones, he had time to glance 
down into the gorge and imagine what it would be like 
to lose his footing and go plummeting down into the 
turbulent river. Every hair on his pelt was on end by 
the time he regained the safety of the cliff top. 

“Have they gone?” Sandstorm asked from just 
behind him. 

“I think so. Let’s keep going quickly in case they 
come back.” 

Picking up the pace, he bounded along the edge of 
the gorge with Sandstorm beside him. When he next 
paused to check for patrols, the ginger she-cat 
meowed, “You don’t have to be so secretive about this, 
you know. You didn’t even tell the whole story to your 
own Clan.” 


“The SkyClan cats came to me alone,” Firestar told 
her. “There’s no need to tell every cat about them. It’s 
not as if I’m going to bring SkyClan back to the 
forest.” 

“Then what’s all this about?” Sandstorm demanded, 
her neck fur beginning to fluff up. “If you don’t plan on 
bringing SkyClan back, what are you going to do?” 

‘Tm not sure,” Firestar replied. “But I know that 
SkyClan need help that only I can give.” 

“And what if that help means sharing ThunderClan 
territory with them?” 

“It won’t. The SkyClan cat said there would be a 
place for them to live.” 

Sandstorm didn’t look reassured. “What if he’s 
wrong?” 

Meeting the challenge in his mate’s green eyes, 
Firestar realized he couldn’t answer. 


The gorge came to an end, and the cliffs sloped 
down to rejoin the river as shallow, sandy banks once 
more. Firestar breathed a sigh of relief when they 
crossed the border scent markings and left WindClan 


territory behind. Soon after, the moor gave way to 
farmland, small fields divided by Twoleg paths and 
hedges; Firestar led the way down a narrow track 
between a hedge and a field of wheat. 

“Smell those mice!” Sandstorm exclaimed. “I’m 
starving!” 

She plunged in among the crackling stems, and, with 
a quick look around for dogs or Twolegs, Firestar 
followed. He caught one mouse with a swift blow of 
his paw as it ran along a furrow, and a second only 
heartbeats later. Carrying his prey to the edge of the 
field he found Sandstorm already there, crouching 
down to eat. 

Firestar joined her, water flooding his jaws at the 
warm scent of food. Neither of them would take prey 
from another Clan’s territory, so they hadn’t eaten 
since they left ThunderClan that morning. When the 
last bite was gone, Firestar swiped his tongue around 
his jaws and arched his back in a long stretch. “Let’s 
rest for a bit,” he suggested. “If we wait until sunset, 
there won’t be so many Twolegs about.” 

Sandstorm yawned, murmured agreement, and 
curled up in a patch of sunlight. Settlng down beside 


her, enjoying the warmth of the sun on his fur and the 
comfortable fullness of his belly, Firestar tried to 
imagine how SkyClan had felt when they came this 
way. They must have been terrified, driven out of their 
home with no clear idea of where they were going. 
And so many cats—a whole Clan!—would be terribly 
vulnerable to dogs or foxes. He looked around, 
searching the shadowy places under the hedge for a 
familiar pale pelt, and strained his ears to catch the 
sound of the lost Clan’s wailing. But all he could hear 
was the rustle of wind in the wheat and birdsong high 
in the sky. He blinked drowsily, rasped his tongue a 
few times over Sandstorm’s ear, and slept. 

Loud voices broke into his dreams. Not the yowls of 
the fleemg cats of SkyClan, but real, and closer, and 
getting even louder. Firestar scrambled to his paws to 
see Sandstorm standing rigid beside him, her pelt 
bristling as she stared up the line of the hedge. Coming 
toward them were two young Twolegs and a brown- 
and-white dog. The dog ran a little way ahead of its 
Twolegs, then bounced back to them, letting out a 
flurry of high-pitched yaps. 

“Into the hedge!” Firestar ordered. 


Thorns tearing at his pelt, he flattened his belly to 
the ground and crept into the middle of the hedge. 
Then he began to claw his way up the trunk of a 
hawthorn bush, forcing the spmy branches to let him 
through. 

Sandstorm was scrabbling her way up another bush, 
but the branches crisscrossed so thickly that she came 
to a stop, unable to go any farther. Her green gaze, full 
of terror and frustration, met Firestar’s. 

The dog was whining alongside the hedge. Firestar 
caught a glimpse of it trying to thrust its way through a 
gap, its tongue lolling and its white teeth gleaming. 

“It’s found our scent,” Sandstorm whispered. 

Firestar searched for a way to reach her and drag 
her higher, but they were separated by too many 
prickly branches. The dog’s forepaws tore at the earth 
as it tried to force its way through the gap to reach the 
cats. Its jaws were no more than a tail-length away 
from Sandstorm’s hind paws. 

Then Firestar heard a Twoleg yowling. A Twoleg 
paw appeared in the gap, grabbed the dog’s collar, and 
dragged it out again. The dog let out a bark of protest. 
Firestar waited, hardly daring to breathe, as the sounds 


died away and the scents of dog and Twolegs 
gradually faded. 

“T think they’ve gone,” he murmured. “Stay there 
while I check.” 

Leaving tufts of his flame-colored fur on the thorns, 
he crept to the edge of the bushes and looked out 
warily. The wheatfield was empty, the rays of the 
setting sun pouring over it like honey. 

“Its okay,” Firestar meowed, glancing back to 
where Sandstorm still clung to her branch. 

He padded a little farther out, taking deep breaths as 
he tried to control his trembling. It was Sandstorm’s 
danger, not his own, that had turned his blood to ice. 
Would it have been easier to have made this journey on 
his own, with no other cat to worry about? But when 
Sandstorm joined him, shaken but unhurt, he kept the 
disloyal thought to himself. 


They padded through the night, under the light of the 
half-moon. This was the best time to travel without 
being seen, and they kept going until both cats were 
too weary to take another pawstep. They found a 


place to sleep in a hollow among the roots of a beech 
tree. 

For the next two days they continued to follow the 
river through fields of wheat that stretched as far as 
they could see on either side. On the third day they left 
the fields and slid through a gap in the hedge onto a 
stretch of rough grass that sloped gently down to the 
river. Rushes thickly fringed the bank. Hot gusts of 
wind rattled them together; as Firestar drew closer he 
picked up the scents of voles and waterbirds, and 
heard small creatures rustling among the stems. The 
sun was going down, turning the river to flame. 

Before they had gone far along the bank, Firestar 
heard the roaring of monsters in the distance. Tasting 
the air, he picked up a familiar harsh tang. “There’s a 
Thunderpath up ahead.” 

“Then we'll have to cross it.” Sandstorm’s tail 
twitched. “There might not be so many monsters out 
now.” 

Soon Firestar made out a line of trees, black against 
the scarlet sky. The setting sun glinted on the bright, 
unnatural colors of swift-pawed monsters. Rounding a 
bend in the river, he caught sight of a Twoleg bridge 


made of stone, with monsters hurtling across it. 

“The Thunderpath goes over the river. We’ll be safe 
underneath.” Sandstorm sounded pleased. 

But Firestar felt uneasy as they approached the 
bridge. It cast a dark shadow over the path, and as the 
daylight died the monsters shot brilliant beams of light 
from their eyes, sweeping across the riverbank. He 
froze as one beam picked them out, and heard a gasp 
from Sandstorm, but the monster snarled and rushed 
on. 

Firestar let out a sigh of relief. “It didn’t spot us.” 

“I don’t like this,’ Sandstorm meowed. “Let’s get 
out of here.” 

Firestar let her take the lead as they ran under the 
bridge. The stones were damp, and water dripped from 
the arch into the river. From the depths of the shadows 
Firestar saw the light beams of another monster, 
approaching fast along the Thunderpath above their 
heads. Suddenly its roar was all around them, echoing 
and reechoing from stone and water. Firestar froze, 
imagining the creature’s huge jaws parted to swallow 
them. 

Sandstorm let out a panic-stricken yowl. “Run!” 


Terror crashed through Firestar; his legs propelled 
him forward until he was racing along the riverbank. 
He fled along the edge of the reed beds until the bridge 
was left far behind and he couldn’t hear the monsters 
above the rasping of his own breath. 

Only exhaustion slowed him down. He stood panting 
on the bank, his paws stinging and every hair on his 
pelt bristling. Sandstorm crouched beside him, looking 
back the way they had come, her tail lashing. 

“Are you okay?” she asked when she had caught 
her breath. 

Firestar tried to make his pelt lie flat. “I thought we 
were crow-food for sure. And I feel I’ve lost every 
scrap of skin from my pads. I don’t know if we’ll be 
able to go much farther tonight.” 

Sandstorm’s eyes gleamed in the gathering 
darkness, and she parted her jaws to taste the arr. 
“Watt there,” she instructed, and vanished through the 
reeds toward the water’s edge. 

“What—” Firestar broke off as he realized she had 
gone. Collapsing onto one side, he licked his stinging 
pads until his mate reappeared, carrying a bunch of 
broad leaves in her jaws. 


“Dock,” she announced, dropping the leaves beside 
Firestar. “Rub it on your pads. Cinderpelt said there’s 
nothing better for soreness.” 

“Thanks.” Firestar blinked gratefully at her and 
rubbed his pads against the surface of the leaf. The 
cool juices soothed the discomfort, and he stretched his 
jaws in a yawn; it would be good to sleep, but there 
was still light in the sky, and he knew they should go on 
for as long as they could. 

The river chattered swiftly through the rushes, 
narrower than where it flowed through the forest. 
Looking back the way they had come, Firestar saw a 
single warrior of StarClan shining in the sky. Just 
below it, hills stood up like jagged teeth, and Firestar 
realized that he was gazing back at Highstones; that 
last glimpse of the world he had known made him feel 
lonelier and more lost than ever. 

He shook his head and stood up. “The dock leaves 
worked fine,” he meowed. “Come on. We’d better try 
to get a bit farther.” 

Sandstorm gave her pads a last rub on the leaves 
and got up to follow him. Instead of being comforted 
by her presence, Firestar wondered if she really 


understood what was driving him to make this journey, 
and if she was wishing that she had stayed at home in 
ThunderClan. 

The breeze dropped; although the sun had gone, the 
night was hot and sticky. Clouds gathered in the sky, 
spreading until they covered the moon and stars. 

“I can’t see my paws in front of me,’ Firestar 
muttered. “At this rate, we’ll end up in the river.” 

“We'd better stop for the night,” mewed Sandstorm. 
Firestar could just make out her pale ginger shape in 
the gloom, her head raised as she tasted the air. 
“There’s a strong scent of vole,’ she went on. 
“Suppose I hunt, while you find us a place to sleep.” 

“Fine.” Firestar knew his mate was the best hunter 
in ThunderClan. “Don’t go too far, though.” 

“I won’t.” Sandstorm slipped away into the 
darkness. 

More by scent than sight, Firestar located a clump 
of reeds and circled in the middle of them, trampling 
them down until he had created a makeshift nest. He 
sighed as he remembered the comfort of his den under 
the Highrock. 

Before he had finished, Sandstorm reappeared with 


two voles hanging from her jaws. She dropped them 
and pushed one over to Firestar. “We won’t starve, at 
least,” she meowed. “There’s plenty of prey, and they 
act like they’ve never seen a cat before.” 

So SkyClan doesnt hunt around here, Firestar 
thought as he gulped down his vole. There’ still a 
long way to go. 

He curled up, wrapping his tail over his nose, and 
tried to sleep in the stifling darkness. Though 
Sandstorm lay close enough for her pelt to touch his, 
he felt as if she were farther away than the hidden 
stars. 


CHAPTER 11 


Raucous quacking sounded in Firestars ear. He 
Jumped up, staring around wildly until he spotted a duck 
in the water beside the reed bed. As he watched, it 
took off, speeding low over the river with whirring 
wings. At the same moment, Firestar felt the ground 
begin to shake with the heavy tramp of Twoleg feet. 

Sandstorm looked up. “What—” 

Firestar slapped the end of his tail over her mouth. 
“Ssshh! Twolegs.” 

Peering out of the reeds, he saw three male 
Twolegs walking up the riverbank toward him. All of 
them carried the long, thin sticks that Twolegs held 
over the water to catch fish. To his relief there was no 
sign of a dog. 

Firestar stayed very still while the Twolegs passed 
his hiding place and disappeared downstream. Then he 
beckoned Sandstorm with his tail. “Lets get out of 
here.” 

With his mate just behind him he ran lightly along the 
bank in the shadow of the reeds until the Twoleg scent 


faded. Then he paused to catch his breath, anxiously 
scanning the sky. Thick cloud still covered it, yellowish 
gray and seeming low enough to touch the tops of the 
trees. The air was hotter than the night before, and 
utterly still. 

“There’s a storm coming,’ Sandstorm meowed. 
“Tt’ll break before nightfall.” 

Firestar nodded. “Then we’d better get moving, as 
fast as we can.” 

They set off again, side by side, at a steady, loping 
pace. In spite of what he said about needing to hurry, 
when he thought about what might be happening back 
in the forest Firestar’s courage seemed to be draining 
out through his paws, and it was hard not to turn 
around and go racing home to his Clan. What if the 
badger had come back? How would the other Clans 
react when they discovered he had gone? Only a few 
moons ago, they had all been united against BloodClan. 
But how long would that alliance survive? Leopardstar 
would steal back the Sunningrocks if she thought she 
could get away with it, while Blackstar would take any 
opportunity to extend ShadowClan’s territory. Firestar 
suddenly felt scared and exposed; he had left the 


forest and the warrior code far behind him, and he 
wasn’t sure any longer that he knew why. 

He wanted to share his fears with Sandstorm, but 
every time he glanced at her, padding alongside, her 
green gaze fixed intently on the path ahead, the words 
died in his throat. He didn’t dare ask her if she thought 
he had made the wrong decision, in case she said yes. 

As they continued along the riverbank, the air 
seemed to grow hotter and more oppressive. Firestar 
panted with thirst, which the river water quenched for 
only a few heartbeats. Sandstorm surprised a vole 
slipping from a hole in the bank into the water, tossed it 
into the air, and killed it as it hit the ground again. 

“Great catch!” Firestar exclaimed. 

Sandstorm’s eyes shone with pride as she dragged 
the fresh-kill over to him so that they could share tt. 
For a few moments Firestar was warmed by a sense 
of their old companionship, but he still didn’t feel he 
could share his worries with his mate. What if she 
insisted on going back to the forest? 

They had hardly moved off again after eating when 
Firestar picked up a strong scent of dog from ahead, 
and heard the sound of Twoleg voices. Sandstorm had 


heard them too. Flicking her tail to beckon him, she 
raced away from the river to a clump of elder bushes 
growing a few fox-lengths farther up the bank. Firestar 
followed, clawing his way up the trunk and crouching 
beside Sandstorm on the lowest branch. 

Through the leaves he could see a couple of 
Twolegs walking past, with two dogs bouncing around 
them. One of them suddenly took off for the trees, 
barking loudly. 

“It’s scented us,” Firestar mewed. 

He felt Sandstorm tense; her lips drew back in the 
beginnings of a snarl and her claws scraped on the 
branch. 

Then one of the Twolegs yowled loudly. The dog 
skidded to a halt, then turned and trotted back, glancing 
once or twice over its shoulder as it went. 

“Good riddance,” Sandstorm muttered. 

Waiting until the Twolegs and their dogs were well 
away, Firestar looked out from his perch to get a better 
view of what lay upriver. “Twoleg nests,” he meowed. 

Sandstorm gave a disgusted sniff. “I suppose our 
luck couldn’t last. Wherever there are Twolegs, there’s 
trouble.” 


Firestar could see only the tops of the Twoleg nests 
from the elder bush, but when he and Sandstorm 
continued upstream the first one soon came into full 
view, very close to the edge of the river. 

“Look at it!” Sandstorm halted, swishing her tail in 
disgust. “It’s swarming with Twolegs.” 

Firestar stopped beside her, puzzled. Most Twoleg 
nests held only a Twoleg and his mate, and maybe their 
kits. But there were far more than that outside this 
nest, too many to count. Most of the adults were sitting 
around, eating Twoleg food, while their kits ran 
shrieking down to the river to throw stones in the 
water. Some of the Twolegs yowled at them, but the 
kits didn’t take any notice. 

“Don’t they ever apprentice their young?” 
Sandstorm asked with a sigh. 

“If we stay on the riverbank we’ ll have to go right 
through the middle of them,” Firestar meowed. “We’d 
be spotted for sure. We’ll have to go around.” 

A white wooden fence enclosed the nest and the 
Twolegs, leading down to the river. Skirting it, Firestar 
led the way up the bank and around the back of the 
nest. Close to the nest wall, where he would have 


expected to find a garden, was a wide space covered 
with the same hard black stuff as a Thunderpath. 
Several monsters were crouching there. 

“Are they asleep?” Sandstorm whispered. 

As if in answer to her question, one of the monsters 
broke into a throaty roar and began to creep slowly 
away from the others and through a gap in the fence 
onto a small Thunderpath. Then it leaped forward and 
dashed away, passing two other monsters on their way 
in. 

Firestar felt his pelt bristle. Crossing a Thunderpath 
was bad enough, but here he felt as if the crouching 
monsters were watching him, ready to spring as soon 
as he ventured onto the hard surface. 

Setting down his paws as lightly as if he were 
stalking a mouse, his belly fur brushing the grass, he 
crept up to the edge of the Thunderpath. There were 
shrubs for cover on the other side, but he didn’t dare 
dart across yet. He could hear the growling of another 
monster, and a few heartbeats later it sped down the 
Thunderpath, slowed at the gap in the fence, then went 
to sleep beside the others near the nest. A couple of 
Twolegs emerged from its belly. 


999 


“Run when I say ‘now,’ he murmured to 
Sandstorm. 

“Get on with it, then,” she replied edgily. 

Firestar’s gaze flicked from the nest to the 
Thunderpath and back again. Everything was still 
“Okay, now!” 

He sprang forward with Sandstorm beside him. At 
the same moment, the snarl of a waking monster broke 
out near the nest. Firestar flung himself forward and 
hurtled into the bushes, where he squeezed his eyes 
shut tight and tried to stop shaking. 

“It spotted us!” Sandstorm gasped, thrusting her 
way into cover beside him. “But it can’t follow us in 
here.” 

Firestar hoped she was right. When he opened his 
eyes and peered through the leaves he could make out 
the monster’s gleaming color as it prowled onto the 
Thunderpath and paused. Was it trying to scent them? 
Surely it would be hard for a monster to scent anything 
except its own harsh reek. All the same, Firestar’s 
breathing didn’t slow until the monster gave up and 
went on, its roar dying away into the distance. 

“Okay, let’s go,” he mewed. He would have liked to 


rest for a bit longer, but he hated this weird nest 
crammed with Twolegs, and their monsters that 
seemed to have learned how to hunt. 

Sandstorm muttered agreement; both cats pushed 
their way through the shrubs until they reached the 
river. Firestar’s pelt didn’t lie flat until they had 
rounded a bend and left the Twoleg nest far behind. 

By the time the next Twoleg nest came into sight, 
Firestar guessed that sunhigh was long past, though 
there was no sun to be seen. The clouds had darkened 
and a sharp wind had picked up, bringing the scent of 
rain. White-flecked ripples appeared on the river; in 
the distance Firestar heard the rumble of thunder. The 
storm would break soon. 

Sandstorm stopped to taste the air. “Mice!” she 
exclaimed. “The scent’s coming from that nest.” 

“Are you sure?” Firestar asked. 

He broke off at Sandstorm’s scathing look. Without 
bothering to reply, she stalked toward the nest. 

“Hey, wait!” Firestar broke into a run to catch up 
with her. “You don’t know what’s in there.” 

“I know what isnt. There’s no Twoleg scent, no 
dogs.” Sandstorm sighed. “Do you want fresh-kill, 


Firestar, or don’t you?” 

Firestar had to admit that his belly was yowling with 
hunger. All day so far they had done nothing but avoid 
Twolegs. There had been no chance to hunt. “Okay, 
but...” 

Ignoring him, Sandstorm prowled closer to the nest. 
Following her, Firestar realized that she was right about 
the scent: lots of mice, but no trace of Twolegs or 
dogs. The nest looked abandoned. The door sagged 
open, and the square holes in the walls were dark and 
empty. There had been a wooden fence around the 
garden once, but most of it was broken down and 
rotting, while the garden itself was overgrown. 

Sandstorm crept up to the door and paused to taste 
the air again before she slipped inside. Firestar 
followed, the powerful aroma of mouse flooding over 
him as he entered. 

Inside the light was gray and cold, filtering through 
dusty air. A thick layer of dust and debris covered the 
floor. On either side, doors to separate dens stood 
open, while straight ahead an uneven slope led to a 
higher level. Sandstorm began to climb upward. 

“Be careful,” Firestar warned her. 


Her tail twitched. “Stay here and keep watch.” 

Firestar waited at the bottom of the slope until 
Sandstorm had vanished. Then, ears pricked for the 
sound of danger, he padded through the empty dens. 
Every tiny movement woke an echo; Firestar found 
himself remembering what it had been like when he 
lived with his Twolegs, before he had ever set paw in 
the forest. Their nest had been warm and cozy, the 
floors covered with thick padding that muffled every 
sound. The holes in the walls were filled with shiny 
stuff like ice, and pelts hung there to be drawn across 
at night. The Twolegs had slept in a den on the higher 
level, while he stayed in the...What was the name of 
the den where they ate food? Yes—the kitchen. 

The unfamiliar word popped into his mind as he 
stood in the empty nest. The trickle of memory was 
becoming a flood; Firestar thought of Hattie and 
Smudge, living happily with their housefolk. Would he 
have been as happy if he had stayed, if he had never 
known the excitement of stalking prey in the rustling 
shadow of leaves, never curled up in the warriors’ den 
beside his Clanmates, never fought for his Clan or 
shouldered the burden of being their leader? 


No. Even in the Twoleg nest, he had walked the 
forest in his dreams. When he joined ThunderClan he 
knew that he had found the place where he belonged. 
But if ThunderClan meant so much to him, why had he 
left to help a Clan who had been driven from the forest 
so long ago that no Clan remembered them? Was it 
enough that he felt he was doing the right thing? 

He started at the sound of a pawstep behind him 
and spun around to see Sandstorm padding into the 
kitchen with the limp body of a mouse in her jaws. 

“You look as if you’ve got a lot on your mind,” she 
meowed, dropping the fresh-kill “Whats the 
problem?” 

Firestar shook his head. “Nothing important.” 

Sandstorm held his gaze for a heartbeat as if she 
didn’t believe him, but she said nothing more. 

Crouching side by side, they shared the mouse. 
Outside the wind had grown stronger, buffeting the 
nest and hurling sharp rain at the walls and through the 
holes to spatter in the dust on the floor. 

“Maybe we should stay here overnight,’ Sandstorm 
suggested. 

Firestar knew she was right. They could catch more 


prey and sleep full-fed until the storm was over. But 
the walls of the Twoleg nest seemed to be closing in on 
him. He couldn’t bear to be inside any longer, 
struggling with old memories. He wasn’t a kittypet 
anymore, and this wasn’t where he belonged! 

“No,” he mewed. “It’s not dark yet. We can’t waste 
the rest of the day.” 

Sandstorm opened her jaws to argue, but something 
in Firestar’s face must have stopped her, because she 
followed him without protest as he led the way out of 
the nest. 

The wind battered Firestar as soon as he emerged. 
Rain slapped him in the face and soaked his fur within 
heartbeats. He knew it would be more sensible to go 
back, but pride wouldn’t let him change his mind. 
Lowering his head, he fought his way into the wind and 
down to the riverbank. 

The river had changed since he and Sandstorm had 
left it to enter the nest. The water level had risen much 
higher, churning with muddy brown waves that slopped 
against the top of the bank. Wind lashed the reeds, 
blowing them nearly flat; the stems whipped the cats’ 
fur with stinging blows as they battled through the 


gloom. The waning moon showed fitfully among the 
clouds, its faint light useless to guide their pawsteps. 

Firestar heard an angry hiss from Sandstorm, and 
knew she thought they should find shelter, but he also 
knew that she was too stubborn to ask twice. He was 
desperate to keep going, whatever the weather, to find 
SkyClan and reassure himself that he had been right to 
leave the forest. 

Soon the river rose higher still, washing through the 
reeds and around the cats’ paws. On the side away 
from the river they were hemmed in by bushes, the 
thorny branches growing too thickly for them to force 
a way through. Lightning stabbed down from the sky, 
followed almost at once by a crack of thunder right 
overhead, as loud as if the sky were splitting into 
fragments. The cold light turned the driving rain to 
silver and shone blackly on Firestar’s and Sandstorm’s 
drenched pelts, plastered against their bodies. 

At the next flash Firestar looked up and thought he 
caught a glimpse of the SkyClan cat’s face in the 
rolling purple clouds. Before he could be sure, the face 
changed to Bluestar’s. Firestar thought she was gazing 
down at him with a pleading expression, as if she was 


terrified for her former Clanmates and wanted them to 
turn back. Firestar wanted to yowl a question to her, 
but at that moment lightning split the sky again and the 
face vanished. 

We cant turn back, Firestar told himself. Not now 
that we ’ve come so far. 

He splashed on, head down and tail drooping under 
the driving rain. Suddenly a surge of water washed 
over the path. Firestar was swept off his paws. He 
opened his jaws to yowl a warning to Sandstorm and 
gulped in icy water as his head went under. 

Paws working frantically, he struggled upward. At 
first when his head broke the surface he couldn’t see 
anything but tossing waves. Then he caught a glimpse 
of the bushes on the bank and swam toward them. The 
cold made his legs feel stiff, and his sodden fur 
dragged at him. The surge began to recede, carrying 
him away from the bushes again. Firestar swam even 
more desperately, terrified of being swept out into the 
churning river. 

Then his paws touched the ground. He dug in his 
claws and managed to cling on as the wave gurgled 
past him, leaving him in water that washed against his 


belly fur. Shaking with cold and terror, he looked back. 
“Sandstorm!” he yowled. 

There was no reply, and at first Firestar couldn’t see 
his mate. Then he spotted her, clnging with teeth and 
claws to a jutting root a few tail-lengths downstream. 
As Firestar waded back to her she scrambled to her 
paws and spat out river water. 

“Are you okay?” Firestar panted. 

“What does it look like?” Sandstorm hissed, lashing 
her tail. “We could have been washed away. Why 
can’t you listen to me for once, instead of being so 
stubborn?” 

Guilt washed over Firestar like another wave. 
Sandstorm was right; if they had stayed in the shelter 
of the abandoned nest they would have been warm 
and safe now. 

“T’m sorry—” 

““Sorry’ catches no prey!” Sandstorm snapped back 
at him. “Admit it, Firestar; you don’t really want me 
here at all.” 

“That’s not true!” Firestar protested. 

“T don’t believe you!” Sandstorm glared at him, then 
added more softly, “I know you love me, Firestar, but is 


that enough? Don’t you wish Spottedleaf were with 
you right now?” 

The question took Firestar by surprise. What would 
it be like to have the StarClan medicine cat by his side? 
Would she be able to convince him that he was doing 
the right thing? 

As he hesitated, the anger faded from Sandstorm’s 
gaze, replaced by a look of horror. “Don’t say a word, 
Firestar,’ she mewed. “I know what your answer 
would be.” 

“No, I didn’t mean—” 

Not listening to him, Sandstorm spun around and 
dashed off, back the way they had come, her paws 
splashing along the flooded path. 

“Sandstorm, wait!” Firestar yowled. He forced 
himself to bound through the water until he caught up 
with the fleeing she-cat. “You’ve got to listen to me.” 

Sandstorm rounded on him. “I don’t want to listen!” 
she hissed. “I’m going home. I know you don’t want 
me. You’ve never wanted me as much as you want 
Spottedleaf.” 

“It’s different; that’s all!” Firestar protested. “You 
can’t ask me to choose between you. You’re both 


important, and I —” 

Lightning crackled across the sky again, clawing at 
a beech tree on top of the bank. Thunder rolled out, 
and a deep groaning sound answered from the tree. 
The top began to tilt, slowly at first, then faster and 
faster, as the tree fell across the river, the highest 
branches crashing down on the opposite bank. Firestar 
and Sandstorm leaped back as sharp, whipping twigs 
lashed the path where they had been standing. 

The two cats crouched on the flooded path until the 
noise died away. As the fallen tree rustled into silence, 
Firestar rose cautiously to his paws. “Wait for me 
here,’ he mewed. “I’ll check out the other bank. It 
doesn’t look so wet over there.” 

For a moment Sandstorm stared at him in silence. 
Her gaze was cold, as if she wasn’t in the mood to 
obey his order. Firestar wondered what he would do if 
she insisted on leaving. Then she nodded abruptly. 
“Okay.” 

The falling tree seemed to have ended their quarrel 
—for now. Firestar breathed silent thanks to StarClan 
as he clambered onto the tree trunk, trying to sink his 
claws into the smooth gray bark. 


The first few paces were easy, but as the trunk 
grew narrower it began to bounce under Firestar’s 
weight. Once he reached the branches he had to climb 
over them. He dug in his claws even harder, terrified 
that he would slp into the churning current. He 
flinched as water splashed up between the branches, 
and felt the surging black river swirl around his hind 
legs. He clawed his way to safety, half-blnded by 
bunches of leaves. Twigs scraped his face and 
snagged in his fur. For a heartbeat he froze as the 
trunk shifted under his paws; the whole tree was 
threatening to roll over and pitch him into the water. 
Bunching his muscles, he sprang forward, pushing his 
way through the slender upper branches, and landed 
safely on the far side. 

The bank was higher here, with water sucking a 
couple of mouse-lengths below the top. Trees spread 
their branches over it, giving some shelter from the 
driving rain. Firestar drew a few panting breaths, then 
turned back toward Sandstorm, still waiting on the 
opposite bank. 

“Tt’s okay!” he called. “You can—” 

A rumbling sound interrupted him. At first he 


thought it was thunder, but it grew louder and louder. 
Sandstorm was staring upstream, her eyes stretched 
wide with horror. Firestar whipped around. A huge 
wave was bearing down on them, brown and topped 
with foam, bearing sticks and debris along with it, 
roaring louder than any monster. 

Firestar let out a screech of shock. Dashing to the 
nearest tree, he leaped up and sank his claws into the 
trunk. Then the wave was upon him. It surged past, 
swirling over the tree trunk less than a taillength 
below him. Spray spattered his fur. Firestar clung there 
until the wave had passed. When he climbed down he 
stared in horror at the river. The fallen tree had been 
Swept away. 

How will Sandstorm cross now? 

As he looked across to the opposite bank a cold 
claw sank into his heart. Sandstorm was gone. 


CHAPTER 12 


“No!” Firestar yowled. “Sandstorm! Sandstorm, 
where are you?” 

There was no reply. Firestar ran up and down the 
bank, yowling his mate’s name over and over. He 
couldn’t see any sign of her, no trace of ginger fur 
among the debris thrown up on the far bank. 

He raced downriver, scrambling over rocks slick 
with water. Desperately he scanned the banks and the 
surging water, convinced that every scrap of tossing 
debris might be his beloved mate. 

He had to stop at last, sides heaving, his paws 
scraped and bleeding. Standing on a boulder, he stared 
down at the black, gurgling water a tail-length below. If 
Sandstorm was dead, he would never, ever forgive 
himself. 

You stupid excuse for a cat! 

Bluestar’s face in the cloud had clearly been a 
warming, but he had ignored it. He had been so 
wrapped up in his quest for SkyClan that he had 
forgotten what he owed to Sandstorm. Whatever had 


happened to her, if she was drowned or lying injured 
somewhere, it was his fault. He let out a whimper of 
grief. How could he have let Sandstorm believe that he 
would rather have been with Spottedleaf? It was 
Sandstorm he loved, and he would do anything to live 
the time over again and send her across the tree trunk 
first. 

Rain still fell, but more gently now, hissing into the 
river, and the thunder had rolled away into the 
distance. The gloom of day was fading to twilight. 
Firestar wanted to go on, but he knew he couldn’t 
search properly in the dark. He could easily miss 
Sandstorm if she was lying unconscious. Every 
pawstep painful, he crept underneath the jutting 
boulder and curled up. Exhaustion surged over him like 
the black water of the river, dragging him into a cold, 
dreamless sleep. 


Pale light reflected from the surface of the water 
and woke Firestar. He crawled into the open, shivering 
in the wind. Clouds raced above his head, tearing away 
to show blue sky behind them, and the sun was already 


climbing toward sunhigh. The storm was over. His pelt 
was almost dry, the fur sticking together in clumps. 

For a heartbeat Firestar drew in the clear air, 
gathermg himself for the next stage of his journey. 
Then memory struck him like the blow from a badger’s 
paw. Sandstorm was gone. 

All that mattered was to find his mate. He couldn’t 
go on without her; he had to retrace his pawsteps 
downstream. 

Firestar stood on the edge of the river and looked 
across at the other bank, measuring the distance. His 
instincts told him to plunge in and swim, but he held 
back. The river was still full, and too fast-flowing for 
even a RiverClan cat to cross safely. With a sigh, he 
began to pad along the bank. 

Soon more boulders reared up in front of him, too 
steep for Firestar to climb. He was forced away from 
the edge of the river. Climbing a steep bank, he picked 
his way through long grass at the edge of a field. The 
stems were weighted down by raindrops, soaking his 
pelt afresh as he brushed through them. With every 
pawstep he peered down at the river through the thin 
line of trees, scanning for any sign of a familiar ginger 


pelt. 

The clouds began to clear away and the sun shone 
more strongly, soaking into Firestar’s drenched fur. 
The scent of prey drifted to him from the field, but he 
ignored it. As he limped onward he spotted another 
tree fallen slantwise across the river, but several tail- 
lengths separated its upper branches from the far bank, 
and Firestar didn’t dare risk using it to cross. He 
picked up his pace when he spotted a narrow wooden 
Twoleg bridge, only to halt in frustration as he realized 
that the middle section was broken away, leaving a gap 
too wide to leap. 

The sun was already going down when he came to 
another bridge. His paws itched to cross, but Twolegs 
blocked his path: two adults and a kit. A dog padded 
beside them. Firestar’s neck fur bristled and he 
crouched down in the grass; then he noticed that the 
dog was old and plump, and tethered to the Twoleg kit 
by some sort of tendril. That meant it was much less of 
a risk, as long as he ran fast enough. 

Taking a deep breath, Firestar streaked down the 
bank and across the bridge, darting between the legs of 
the Twolegs. He heard a bark of surprise from the 


dog. One of the Twolegs called out, but Firestar didn’t 
look back. He skidded off the far end of the bridge and 
plunged into the shelter of the bushes, his heart 
thudding. 

When he dared to peer out, he saw the Twolegs 
staring after him, the old dog straining on its tendril, but 
after a moment they carried on, turning downstream on 
the far bank. Firestar let out a sigh of relief. Once they 
were out of sight he emerged and set out down the 
path. 

The ground beneath his paws was covered in sticky 
mud, with debris scattered over it. The enormous wave 
must have washed right up to the bushes; Sandstorm 
couldn’t possibly have escaped it. 

Firestar looked and looked for her, dreading the sight 
of lifeless ginger fur caught up in a branch or rammed 
against a boulder. The sun had already disappeared 
when he came to the abandoned Twoleg nest. In the 
twilight he padded up the path, hope flickering in his 
heart. Sandstorm had wanted to shelter here; if she 
had survived the wave she might have spent the night 
inside. But when he reached the door Firestar could 
pick up only a faint, stale trace of her scent, along with 


his own. 

Unable to give up without a search, he slipped inside 
the nest. The dust rose under his paws, stinging his 
nose. “Sandstorm?” he called. 

There was no reply. Staggering with exhaustion, 
Firestar dragged himself up the uneven slope and 
explored the dens above, but there too, the only scent 
of Sandstorm was stale. Grief and fear overwhelmed 
him; he curled up on the bare wooden floor and closed 
his eyes, but sleep was hard to come by. When 
unconsciousness overwhelmed him at last, his sleep 
was disturbed by broken memories of his life with his 
Twolegs, as if he had never left them to become a 
warrior, or known the joy of leading his Clan. 

He woke shivering in the gray light of dawn. As he 
padded down the slope again, his heart lurched when 
he heard movement coming from the Twoleg kitchen. 
Without pausing to scent, he rushed through the 
opening. “Sandstorm?” 

He was halted in his tracks by a fierce snarling. A 
fox raised its red-streaked muzzle from a meal of 
pigeon, its white teeth bared among the blood and 
feathers. 


Firestar backed slowly away until he reached the 
outer door. Then he turned and fled, racing down the 
path with his belly fur brushing the ground and his tail 
streaming behind him. He was braced to feel the hot 
breath of the fox on his neck and its teeth meeting in 
his scruff, but he reached the riverbank safely. Panting, 
he looked back. The fox hadn’t pursued him. 

Firestar trotted along the bank until he reached the 
other Twoleg nest where the monster had almost 
caught them. Rounding a bend in the river, he halted in 
surprise. Where the Twolegs and their kits had been 
was a vast stretch of water, flat and silver-gray, spilling 
out from the river and pooling around the nest. A few 
Twoleg things bobbed forlornly in the middle of tt. 
Close to the nest two or three Twolegs were standing, 
staring out at the water and wailing. 

Keeping an eye on the Twolegs in case any of them 
spotted him, Firestar skirted the edge of the water, 
hoping to cross the Thunderpath behind the nest, as he 
and Sandstorm had done before. But the flood 
stretched much farther than he had thought. The 
Thunderpath itself was underwater. Firestar had to 
pick his way through marshy woodland, slipping into 


muddy hollows and snagging his fur on brambles. 

At last he reached the little Thunderpath again. Out 
of habit he crouched beside it, glancing cautiously up 
and down, but there were no monsters today. 
Everything was silent except for steady dripping from 
the trees. 

Firestar pushed his way through the undergrowth on 
the other side of the Thunderpath, hoping to follow the 
edge of the flood back to the river. But as he emerged 
from the woods again he heard loud yapping. A 
Twoleg and a little fox-colored dog were rounding the 
corner of the nest. 

Whipping around, Firestar fled, but he was too late. 
The dog rushed at him with a flurry of high-pitched 
yaps. Firestar heard the Twoleg yowl, but the dog kept 
on coming. Firestar could hear it blundering through the 
trees behind him. He forced his legs to move even 
faster. A wall reared up in front of him; without 
thinking, Firestar took a flying leap, clawed his way up 
the stones, and paused to look down at his pursuer. 

The dog panted up to the wall and sat at the foot, 
howling. Firestar bared his teeth in a furious hiss, then 
Jumped down into the garden on the other side. As he 


slid into the shelter of a bush he heard the dog’s 
Twoleg come crashing up, snarling irritably. The dog’s 
yapping faded into the distance as it was dragged 
away. 

Firestar crouched in the shelter of the dripping bush 
and caught his breath. Where could the water have 
taken Sandstorm? If the river had flooded this far, she 
could have been swept away from the bank altogether. 
If she managed to struggle free, he thought, she 
might have come this way to escape the flood. 

It would be worth searching a few gardens, Firestar 
decided, to see if he could pick up any trace of her. At 
least there was no more rain, and the pale sun drew up 
steam from the sodden grass. 

Firestar peered out from behind his bush and 
examined the garden. It looked empty. There were no 
sounds coming from the Twoleg nest. But when he 
tasted the air he couldn’t scent Sandstorm. She wasn’t 
here; he would have to go on. 

Streaking across the grass, he plunged through the 
bushes at the far side and leaped up onto the opposite 
wall. Beyond it was a narrow passage; after checking 
for scent, Firestar jumped down. The wall on the other 


side was too high to climb, so he trotted along the 
passage, senses straining for any trace of Sandstorm. 

The passage emerged into a tangle of Twoleg nests 
joined by a small Thunderpath. Everything was quiet, 
and there were no monsters in sight, not even sleeping 
ones. All the same, Firestar’s pelt prickled. Being in a 
Twolegplace didn’t feel right, and he was already 
beginning to doubt that he would find Sandstorm so far 
from the river. 

I'll just take a quick look. 

But all the nests and gardens looked alike, and the 
rain had washed away any scents that might have 
guided him. Jumping up onto a wall that he thought 
overlooked the passage back to the woods, Firestar 
found himself staring down into yet another garden. 

“Fox dung!” he spat. “Now I’m lost. What else can 
go wrong?” 

He tried to retrace his steps, but somewhere he 
must have taken a wrong turn. More unfamiliar 
gardens stretched in front of him, separated by the 
winding alleys that seemed to turn back on themselves. 
Several times he crossed his own scent trail, but it 
didn’t lead him anywhere. By the time night was 


falling, he still hadn’t found his way back to the river. 

He felt too tired to go on searching; warily he 
dropped down from a fence into one of the gardens 
and crawled underneath a bush with strong-smelling 
blue flowers. With luck they would hide his scent from 
any passing kittypets. 

This time his dreams were filled with the voice of 
his mate, wailing for him in the distance, but however 
far and fast he ran, he couldn’t catch up with her. 
When he woke he still felt exhausted, and so miserable 
that it took an immense effort for him to drag himself 
out from underneath the bush. 

Across the garden a movement caught his eye, and 
he spotted a plump white cat emerging from the door 
of the nest. It yawned and stretched, then lay down in 
a patch of sunlight on some flat stones and began to 
wash its long, snowy fur. 

He looks like Cloudtail, Firestar thought, leaping 
down and approaching cautiously in case the kittypet 
displayed any of his kin’s fighting skills. 

The cat looked up in surprise and fixed a brilliant 
blue gaze on Firestar as the ThunderClan leader 
paused at the edge of the stones and dipped his head 


politely. Firestar suppressed a spurt of contempt that 
this kittypet couldn’t be bothered to defend his own 
territory. He didn’t look as if he had ever raised a claw 
in anger in his life. 

“Greetings,” he meowed. 

The white cat blinked at him. “Hi. Who are you?” 

“My name’s Firestar. Have you seen a ginger cat 
recently?” 

The kittypet blinked again. “I’ve seen you.” 

Firestar gritted his teeth. “Yes, but I’m not looking 
for me,” he pomted out. He wanted to sink his claws 
into the kittypet and shake some sense into him, but he 
managed to stop himself. 

“Well...” the white cat went on, “I think I saw a 
ginger cat...oh, about five days ago. Or was that a 
tortoiseshell?” 

Firestar took a deep breath and let it out. “Okay. 
Never mind. Can you just tell me how to get back to 
the river?” 

The kittypet twitched his whiskers. “What river?” 

Firestar dug his claws into the ground. “Thanks for 
your help,” he hissed. 

Turning his back on the kittypet, he raced across the 


garden and climbed the wall. Yet another narrow 
passage lay beyond. With nothing else to do, Firestar 
padded along it until it emerged into a wide space 
covered with black Thunderpath stuff. A Thunderpath 
led out of it from the other side, and all around it were 
small, square nests with featureless walls and gaping 
entrances. Some of them were empty, but one of them 
had swallowed a monster whole. 

Every hair on Firestar’s pelt rose. What if one of the 
nests swallowed him, too? His paws were itching to 
run back the way he had come, but he thought that if 
he could get out on the other side, along the 
Thunderpath, he might be able to find his way back to 
the river. 

Cautiously, pawstep by pawstep, he ventured out 
onto the hard black surface. He was almost halfway 
across when he froze at the roar of a monster, growing 
rapidly louder. The huge creature swept through the 
opening, sunlight glinting off its shiny pelt, and bore 
down on Firestar. 

Fear slammed into Firestar’s throat. He dodged to 
one side. The monster followed him. /t’s hunting me! 
Its throaty snarl seemed to be all around him. Letting 


out a terrified caterwaul, Firestar clawed his way up 
the wall of one of the nests, across the roof, and 
crashed down on the other side, too panic-stricken to 
look where he was going. 

His paws sank deep into a pile of Twoleg rubbish. 
Its reek billowed out around him. Choking, Firestar 
scrabbled furiously to drag himself out of the mess. 
Shaking pieces of the stinking stuff from his fur, he 
collapsed on his side, his head spinning. There was a 
vile taste in his mouth, and he felt as if every muscle in 
his body were aching. 

Despair crashed over him. He had failed Sandstorm 
and SkyClan. He had failed his own Clan by 
abandoning them. Every decision he had made had 
been wrong, and he was too exhausted to do any 
more. 

His belly was caterwauling with hunger, but Firestar 
was too miserable even to try scenting prey. A few 
tai-lengths away he could see a pile of Twoleg stuff 
covered by a stiff, shiny pelt. His muscles shrieking in 
protest, he crawled over to it and slunk into the shelter 
of the pelt. With a tiny sigh he closed his eyes and let 
darkness take him. 


His dreams were dark and chaotic. Over and over 
again he saw the enormous wave bearing down on 
him, and heard Sandstorm yowlng to him for help he 
couldn’t give. Then the Twoleg dog chased him, 
gripped his scruff in its teeth, and shook him until he 
thought it would rip his pelt off. 


CHAPTER 13 


“I’ve never seen him before in my life. What’s he 
doing here?” 

“He’s not moving. Is he dead?” 

“No...here, you, wake up!” 

The voices pulsed loud and soft in Firestar’s ears. 
He blinked painfully and saw a blur of black and brown 
blocking the gap where he had crept into shelter. A 
paw was fastened in his neck fur, giving him a vigorous 
shake. 

“Wha...? Get off.” Firestar batted feebly at his 
assailant. 

“Keep your claws to yourself,” a voice growled. 

Firestar blinked again. Crouched in front of him 
were two cats: one was a black she-cat, the other a 
scrawny brown tom with a torn ear. 

“You can’t stay there,” the black she-cat meowed. 
“Twolegs come in and out of here all the time. Move 
your paws.” 

‘TIl move when I’m ready.” Firestar tried to sound 
defiant, but his mouth was so parched with thirst that 


he could hardly speak, and his head spun from hunger. 

“Yow ll move when we tell you,” the scrawny tom 
snarled. “Flea-brain!” He gave Firestar a sharp poke in 
the ribs with one paw. 

Firestar was too weak to argue. He dragged himself 
out from beneath the shiny pelt and staggered to his 
paws. 

“About time.” The she-cat sniffed. “Follow us.” 

She set off down a winding path that led between 
the mounds of Twoleg rubbish. Firestar briefly thought 
of making a break for freedom, but he had no idea 
where to go. Besides, he could barely totter along, and 
while the she-cat led the way, the brown tom padded 
along beside Firestar and kept his yellow eyes fixed on 
him. 

Where are they taking me? Firestar wondered. 

He thought of Scourge and BloodClan, and 
wondered if there was another Clan of vicious 
Twolegplace cats here. If they knew he was from the 
forest, they might see him as an enemy. Were these 
cats taking him to be killed? 

The black she-cat led him through a gap in the wall. 
Firestar emerged into a patch of bare ground where a 


few stunted trees struggled to survive in the thin soil. 
He couldn’t see any other cats, but there was powerful 
cat scent all around him. His fear of finding another 
BloodClan grew stronger and stronger until it rose in 
his throat and almost choked him. 

“That way.” The brown tom gave him another push, 
almost carrying Firestar off his paws. 

He stumbled forward, slid down a dip in the ground, 
and came to a halt as his forepaws splashed into the 
edge of a puddle. 

“Keep your paws out of it,” the tomcat growled. “I 
don’t want to drink it if you’ve been paddling about in 
it.” 

Firestar backed away hastily. 

“Go on, then, drink,’ the she-cat snapped. “It’s 
perfectly safe, you know. We’re not trying to poison 
you!” 

Firestar gave her a doubtful glance. These cats had 
brought him to the water he needed so desperately. 
Did that mean they wouldn’t kill him after all? 

He crouched by the edge of the pool and lapped at 
the water. He knew it was stale, tainted by Twoleg 
scents, but right then it tasted more delicious than the 


clearest stream in the forest. 

When he sat up, twitching drops of water off his 
whiskers, he saw the black she-cat standing beside him 
with a sparrow in her jaws. 

“Here,” she mewed, dropping the fresh-kill at his 
paws. 

Firestar stared at it. These cats were feeding him? 

“Honestly,” the she-cat muttered, rolling her eyes as 
she pushed the sparrow closer to him. “Eat. Haven’t 
you ever seen prey before?” 

“Er...thanks.” Firestar fell on the sparrow, gulping it 
down in huge bites. 

“I can see you haven’t eaten for a long time,” the 
brown tom remarked. “Have you come far?” 

Firestar swallowed a mouthful of sparrow before he 
replied. “Far enough,” he meowed. He dipped his head 
and added, “My name is Firestar.” 

“I’m Stick, and she’s Cora,” the brown tom told him. 

Firestar felt a shiver of hope stir his pelt. Maybe he 
wasn’t the only wanderer they had rescued. “I’m 
looking for another ginger cat. Have you seen her?” he 
asked. 

The two rogues exchanged a glance. Firestar felt 


sick with disappomtment as Cora shook her head, 
shrugging. 

“One of the others might have,” Stick added. 

“Others? What others?” Firestar demolished the last 
scrap of prey and heaved himself to his paws. Energy 
was beginning to trickle back into him now that he had 
eaten and drunk. “Are you part of a Clan?” 

Cora looked puzzled. “What do you mean, a Clan?” 

“Other cats come here,” Stick explained. “Cats like 
us.” 

“Where are they now?” Firestar demanded. 

“Dunno,” meowed Stick. He gestured with his tail. 
“Around.” 

“Can you take me to them?” 

‘No need,” replied Cora. “They’ll turn up here 
sooner or later. They always do.” 

Firestar glanced around. There were still no other 
cats in sight, but the strong scent he had picked up at 
first told him that this must be a meeting place for 
many cats. The memory of BloodClan made him 
nervous. Stick and Cora had treated him well up to 
now, but what about the others? Firestar’s instincts 
were telling him to run, but he was so desperate to find 


Sandstorm that he knew he had to stay and ask more 
questions. 

“Could you introduce me to the other cats?” he 
asked. 

Cora twitched her tail. “You'll be fine without us.” 

“We don’t usually hang around with them,” Stick 
added. 

“Please!” Firestar dug his claws hard into the 
ground. “I need to be sure that the other cats will talk 
to me. I’ve got to find my friend!” 

The cats hesitated, glancing at each other again. 

“Who is this cat you’re looking for?” Cora asked. 
“Why is it so important to find her?” 

“Because it’s my fault she’s lost!” Firestar burst out. 
“We were traveling along the river, and she got 
washed away in the storm. I’ve looked everywhere for 
her, but I can’t find her. I can’t go on without her, and I 
can’t go back home and leave her here.” His claws 
scraped the dusty ground. “I can’t give up looking for 
her!” 

“Keep your fur on,” Cora meowed. Her voice was 
still sharp but her eyes were sympathetic. “We’ll stay.” 

“Thank you.” Firestar held her gaze, hoping she 


would understand how much this meant to him. 

Stick and Cora padded over to a shady spot under 
one of the scrubby trees, shared tongues briefly, then 
curled up for a nap. Firestar stretched, wishing that he 
could sleep too, but he didn’t want to miss the arrival 
of the other cats. He couldn’t trust Stick and Cora to 
wake him because he wasn’t sure that they realized 
how important it was for him to find Sandstorm. 

He found a sun-warmed patch of earth and settled 
down for a really thorough grooming. The hairs of his 
flame-colored pelt were clumped together, with bits of 
debris from the river matted among them. Even worse, 
he was covered with smears of disgusting Twoleg stuff 
from the rubbish heap. If his Clanmates could see him 
now they would hardly recognize him! Rasping his 
tongue over his shoulder, he pulled a face at the vile 
taste, but he kept on until his fur was smooth and 
glossy again. 

Firestar found it harder and harder to keep awake. 
The sun was going down, casting the long shadows of 
trees and Twoleg walls across the open space. 
Suddenly he spotted movement from the corner of his 
eye; a cat was slinking out from behind one of the 


trees. 

Firestar stiffened, glancing toward Stick and Cora. 
The black she-cat rose to her paws, arched her back in 
a long stretch, then padded over to him. “Here they 
come,” she mewed. 

More cats followed the first, emerging from 
between the trees or through the gap where the rogues 
and Firestar had entered. Others leaped down from the 
walls. Firestar watched them greet one another with 
friendly reserve, just as different Clan cats did at 
Fourtrees. 

Cora waved her tail. “Come on; PI introduce you.” 

Stick jomed them as they headed for the nearest 
group of cats, three of them, who were sitting by the 
puddle where Firestar had drunk. 

“and so I said to the rat,’ a black tom was 
meowing, ““Come one step farther and PI rip your pelt 
off.” 

A brown tabby looked up from the puddle. “What 
happened then?” 

“Its mate jumped him from behind,” the third cat, a 
beautiful white queen, replied with a mrrow of 
amusement. 


The black tom bared his teeth in a snarl. “So what? 
I ripped the pelts off both of them.” 

“That’s Coal? Cora murmured in Firestar’s ear. 
“He’s the biggest boaster around.” 

“But his claws are sharp,” Stick added. 

The white she-cat yawned. “Who wants to eat rat, 
anyway? J had some Twoleg milk.” 

“And hedgehogs fly,” Coal snapped. 

“I did!” The white she-cat’s eyes stretched wide 
with indignation. “The bottle was standing on the step, 
so I tipped it over and all the milk flowed out.” She 
swiped her tongue around her jaws. “It was delicious.” 

“The white cat is Snowy,” Stick told Firestar. “She 
spends a lot of time around Twolegs. She might have 
seen your friend there.” 

Firestar shook his head. “I doubt it. Sandstorm 
wouldn’t go near Twolegs if she could help it.” 

“Snowy, I saw you near that nest.” The brown 
tabby got up from the puddle, and Firestar saw that 
half his tail was missing. “You might not have noticed 
that they have a new dog there. It chased me off when 
I was stalking a mouse in their garden. I’d stay well 
away if I were you.” 


Snowy stretched and extended her claws. “I’ve 
seen the dog—stupid hairy lump. I can deal with it.” 

Coal snorted. “T’d like to see you try.” 

The brown tabby padded over to sit between Coal 
and Snowy. “Hi, there. I saw a strange cat today,” he 
began. 

Firestar’s ears pricked. 

“A couple of Twoleg kits had grabbed her,” the 
tabby tom went on, flexing his claws. “7 soon showed 
them what’s what.” 

Snowy turned toward him with an angry glare. 
“Shorty! You didn’t claw young Twolegs, did you?” 

“What if I did?” Shorty snapped back. “They 
deserved it, mauling a cat. But no,’ he went on, “I 
didn’t hurt them. I had my claws sheathed. I just 
distracted them so the ginger cat could escape.” 

“Ginger!” Firestar exclaimed. 

Stick’s eyes gleamed. “That could be your friend.” 

“Why didn’t you bring her to meet us?” Snowy 
asked Shorty. 

“No time.” The tabby tom’s amber eyes shone with 
admiration. “She jumped over the fence as if she’d 
sprouted wings. I don’t think I’ve ever seen a cat 


move so fast.” 

Firestar touched Stick on the shoulder with his tail. 
“T’ve got to talk to that cat.” 

“Okay,” Stick replied. “Follow me.” 

He strolled forward, tail waving, until he came up to 
the group of three cats. “Hi,” he meowed. “There’s a 
cat here who wants to meet you.” 

All three cats fixed their gaze on Firestar. He dipped 
his head respectfully. “Greetings. How’s the prey 
running?” 

Coal and Snowy exchanged a glance, as if they 
thought he’d said something odd. Firestar hoped he 
hadn’t sounded too weird. 

“You’re new around here,” Coal mewed. “Where 
are you from?” 

Firestar didn’t want to tell these cats about the 
forest. What if they decided to invade his home, like 
BloodClan? “Downstream,” he replied, hoping that 
was vague enough. 

“His name’s Firestar,” Cora added, padding up to his 
side. “Firestar, meet Snowy, Coal, and Shorty.” 

“Have you come to stay?” Snowy’s brilliant blue 
gaze was friendly. 


“No, I’m just passing through,” Firestar told her. “I 
was with another cat, but we got separated in the 
storm.” Eagerly he turned to Shorty. “I heard what you 
said about the ginger cat. I think it might have been my 
friend.” 

Shorty’s whiskers twitched; he got up and came to 
sniff Firestar. “Could be,’ he meowed. “She had the 
same sort of scent as you: trees and leaves and river 
water.” 

Firestar took a breath, his heart thudding painfully. 
“Can you show me where you met her?” 

Shorty waved the stump of his tail. “Sure.” 

“But not tonight.” Cora thrust her way between 
Firestar and Shorty. “Look at you,” she added, 
interrupting Firestar as he tried to protest. “A puff of 
wind would blow you over. You need a good night’s 
rest and some more prey before you're fit to go 
anywhere.” 

Firestar dug his claws into the ground in frustration. 
I’m a warrior! he thought resentfully. J don t need to 
rest. “But Sandstorm might leave,’ he meowed. He 
didn’t voice his other fear, that Shorty might wander 
off and Firestar would never see him again. 


“Your friend won’t go anywhere by night in a 
strange place,” Cora snapped. “Not unless she’s flea- 
brained. Shorty, if you take him with you now, PI claw 
off the rest of your tail.” 

Shorty shrugged good-humoredly. “I can’t argue 
with that,’ he mewed to Firestar. “Don’t worry; PI 
take you to the place tomorrow.” 

Firestar could do nothing but agree. He found a dip 
in the ground to sleep in, and though he was convinced 
that worry would keep him awake, he slept almost as 
soon as he curled up. This time no dreams disturbed 
him. 

He woke the next morning to find himself lying in 
warm sunlight. Though he hadn’t wanted to delay, he 
had to admit that he felt much better. Springing to his 
paws he glanced around, but the only cat he could see 
was Stick, padding over to him with a mouse dangling 
from his jaws. 

“Here you are,” he meowed, dropping his prey in 
front of Firestar. “Eat.” 

“Where’s Shorty?” 

Stick flicked his ears. “Dunno.” 

“But he promised to take me to find Sandstorm!” 


“Then he wil. Keep your fur on; he’ll be back 
sooner or later.” 

Firestar wasn’t sure. Muttering thanks for the fresh- 
kill, he crouched down to eat, his senses alert for the 
first sign of the tabby tom’s return. But he was still so 
weak that exhaustion crept up on him and he slept 
again. 

He woke with a start to see the trees casting long 
black shadows across the stretch of open ground. Red 
light washed between them; the sun was sinking again! 

Firestar scrambled up, his heart thudding in panic. 
He spotted Shorty, sittng under the nearest tree, his 
amber eyes fixed unblinkingly on him. 

“Why didn’t you wake me?” Firestar demanded. 

“What for?” Shorty twitched his whiskers. “Don’t 
worry; we’ve got plenty of time.” 

Firestar bit back what he would have liked to say. If 
he offended this cat, he might never find Sandstorm at 
all. 

“Come back here if your friend’s not there,’ Cora 
told him, padding up from behind. “We’ll ask around 
and see if we can find out anything else.” 

“PI do that,” mewed Firestar. “Thanks.” 


“Okay,” meowed Shorty. “Let’s go.” 

The brown tabby leaped over the wall and into 
another of the confusing passages. Trotting down to 
the end and around a corner, he squeezed through a 
gap in a wooden fence. Firestar followed and found 
himself behind bushes in another Twoleg garden. Night 
had fallen; yellow light poured from a single square 
hole in the wall of the Twoleg nest. 

“This was the place,” Shorty murmured. “The young 
Twolegs live here. They caught your friend by that 
grass over there.” 

He flicked his tail toward a clump of long grass in 
the middle of the garden. The stems rose for three or 
four tail-lengths, with plumy tops that glimmered yellow 
in the strange light. Keeping a cautious eye on the nest, 
Firestar crept into the open until he reached the clump. 

He closed his eyes to concentrate better, and drew 
in air over his scent glands. The powerful scent of 
Twoleg flowers almost swamped everything else, but 
Firestar could distinguish the scent of Twolegs, several 
different kinds of prey, and...yes! Very faint, and 
growing stale, but still recognizable. 

“Sandstorm!” he breathed. “She was here. She’s 


alive!” Thank StarClan! he thought. 

Shorty bounded up to him. “Any luck?” 

“Yes—yes, it’s her. Which way did she go?” 

Shorty pointed the stump of his tail toward the 
opposite fence. “Over there, into the next garden.” 

Firestar raced across the grass to the fence; to his 
surprise Shorty kept pace with him. “You don’t have to 
come with me,” Firestar meowed. 

Shorty flicked his ears. “That’s okay. I’ll tag along, if 
you don’t mind. Snowy’s bound to ask me if we found 
your friend.” 

“Thanks,” mewed Firestar. Though he didn’t say so 
to Shorty, he was surprised that the rogues were being 
so helpful. He had been too quick to assume they 
would be his enemies. 

The two cats scrambled over the next fence. 
Firestar thought he caught another trace of 
Sandstorm’s scent among the clumps of flowers, but 
the Twoleg scents were very strong here, and there 
was a powerful aroma of dog. His neck fur lifted when 
he heard it barking from the nest. 

‘Tve lost her trail,” he told Shorty, padding up and 
down in frustration. 


“Let’s follow the fence,” the tabby tom suggested. 
“We might pick up the spot where she left.” 

“Good idea.” Firestar slipped along the bottom of the 
fence, concealed from the Twoleg nest by thick shrubs, 
but there were no other signs that Sandstorm had been 
there, not even the imprint of a paw in the soil, He 
wished he had Cloudtail with him; the white tom was 
the best tracker in ThunderClan. 

StarClan help me! he prayed, gazing up at the 
glittering warriors of Silverpelt and wondering if they 
could see him when he was so far away from the 
forest. 

As he lifted his head, a tuft of fur snagged on the 
top of the fence caught his eye, and he made out the 
pale ginger of Sandstorm’s pelt. 

He pointed with his tail. “That’s where she crossed 
the fence. Come on, Shorty!” 

But the tabby rogue was looking uneasy, his claws 
working in the thick leaf mold under the bushes. 
“There’s a kittypet over there,” he meowed. “She’s a 
good fighter, and...well, a bit short-tempered.” 

Firestar couldn’t believe that any kittypet could fight 
well enough to give him trouble. “I can handle it,” he 


promised. 

He leaped for the fence, clawed his way to the top, 
and gave the tuft of fur a quick sniff. Sandstorm’s 
scent flooded over him. The garden below him was 
overgrown with shrubs and a wild tangle of Twoleg 
flowers. Trees spread their branches over it, casting 
deep shadows. Firestar’s paws tingled. This garden 
was almost like the forest; it was just the sort of place 
where his mate might hide. 

“Sandstorm!” he called softly. “Sandstorm, are you 
there?” 

There was no reply. Firestar dropped down into the 
garden and prowled through the undergrowth, his nose 
filled with the scents of leaves and flowers and other 
cats. He had lost Sandstorm’s scent again, but he was 
sure she had to be close by. “Sandstorm!” he called 
again. 

Just behind him a snarl broke the silence. Firestar 
whirled to see a tortoiseshell kittypet standing a tail- 
length away. Her back was arched and her teeth 
bared; her fur bristled, and her quivering tail was 
fluffed up to twice its size. 

“What are you doing in my garden?” she spat. 


Firestar gulped; obviously not all kittypets were lazy 
about defending their territory. “Look, keep your fur 
on,” he began. “I’m only—” 

He broke off as the tortoiseshell leaped on him, 
hissing with rage, and bowled him off his paws. 

“Shorty!” he yowled. 

He battered at the tortoiseshell with his hind paws, 
but he still didn’t have his full strength, and he couldn’t 
throw her off. His side stung as she raked her claws 
down tt. 

“Trespasser!” she hissed in his ear. 

Firestar struggled to bring his head around and sink 
his teeth into her neck. Then from somewhere close by 
he heard the furious yowl of another cat. Suddenly the 
tortoiseshell’s weight vanished. Firestar lay limp on the 
ground for a couple of heartbeats, thankful that Shorty 
had come to his rescue. 

Then he looked up and scrambled to his paws with a 
gasp of amazement. The newcomer wasn’t Shorty at 
all; it was Sandstorm! The ginger she-cat had flung the 
tortoiseshell to the ground; she jabbed her hind paws 
into the kittypet’s belly and fastened her teeth into her 
ear. The kittypet fought furiously for a moment longer, 


then tore herself away and fled toward the Twoleg 
nest. 

“Sandstorm!” Firestar panted. He stood gazing at 
his mate; her sides were heaving, and blood welled 
from scratches on her shoulder. 

“Think yourself lucky I turned up in time to save 
your pelt!” Sandstorm hissed. 

“I didn’t ask you to!” Firestar flashed back. “I could 
have taken care of myself.” 

Sandstorm’s lip curled disbelievingly. “Oh, sure.” 

Firestar stared at her. This wasn’t how he had 
imagined his reunion with Sandstorm would be. “Listen 


33 


“Is everything okay?” Shorty interrupted; Firestar 
looked up to see his head popping up over the fence. 
“Hey! You found her!” 

‘No, J found him,” Sandstorm growled. She 
sounded as if she wished she hadn’t. “I’m surprised 
you even bothered to look for me,” she went on to 
Firestar, her green eyes glittermg with hostility. “After 
all, what’s one Clanmate compared with all the 
nameless cats who are depending on you who knows 
where? Why didn’t you go on looking for them, 


instead?” 

Firestar was too worn-out to quarrel with her any 
more. Padding over to her, drinking in her warm, 
familiar scent, he murmured, “I would have searched 
for you forever. I would never have gone on without 
you.” 

Sandstorm gazed at him for a long moment. “I 
meant it when I said I wanted to come on this 
journey,” she mewed. “But I want to share your 
mission. I want to understand why you need to help 
this Clan, and play an equal part in finding them.” 

“But StarClan sent the dream only to me—” 
Firestar began. 

“That’s not true,’ Sandstorm pointed out. “What 
about Smudge? This Clan must be desperate for help if 
they would try talking to a kittypet. Surely two cats are 
better than one?” 

Firestar rested his muzzle against hers. He 
remembered how he had felt when he thought he had 
lost her forever. Now he knew that he could never 
complete his journey without Sandstorm by his side. 

“Excuse me for interrupting,’ Shorty meowed from 
his perch on the fence, “but are you two going to stay 


down there all night?” 

For a heartbeat Firestar met Sandstorm’s green 
gaze. So much passed between them that could never 
be put into words. Then he tore himself away. 

“Sorry,” he mewed, leaping to the top of the fence 
to balance beside Shorty. “Can you show us the way 
out of here?” 

“We need to get back to the river,’ Sandstorm 
added as she joined them. 

“No problem. Follow me.” 

Shorty led them back across the gardens. They 
crossed a small Thunderpath, quiet but lit by the glare 
of orange Twoleg lights, and padded down yet another 
passage between two Twoleg nests. 

“Not far now,” Shorty announced cheerfully. 

At the end of the gardens the passage came out into 
a rough grassy space. Firestar lifted his muzzle as the 
scent of the river washed over him. He could hear the 
soft rush of water in the distance. 

“Thank you,” he meowed to Shorty. “Thank you for 
everything. I’d never have found Sandstorm without 
your help.” 

Sandstorm dipped her head. “Thanks for scaring off 


those Twoleg kits, too.” 

The brown tabby gave his chest fur a few licks to 
hide his embarrassment. “Good luck.” His eyes 
narrowed. “I reckon you’re up to something where you 
might need all the luck you can get.” 

“You're right; we do,” Sandstorm agreed. 

“I hope we might see you again someday,” Shorty 
meowed. 

“I hope so too,” Firestar replied. 

Shorty waved the stump of his tail in farewell. He 
stood watching at the mouth of the passage while 
Firestar and Sandstorm padded side by side across the 
tussocky grass and down to the river. 


CHAPTER 14 


Throughout the night, Firestar and Sandstorm 
traveled slowly upstream beneath a claw scratch of 
moon. They left behind the familiar stretch of river 
with the Twolegplace standing forlornly in a sea of 
mud, and the path that led to the deserted 
Twolegplace. The river shrank and flowed more 
swiftly, chattering over stones; a thick hedge bordered 
it, leaving only a narrow path for the cats to pass. 

Firestar didn’t feel the need to talk; it was enough to 
have Sandstorm back with him, padding alongside him. 

At last the first traces of dawn appeared on the 
horizon. The sky grew milky pale, and one by one the 
warriors of StarClan winked out. 

“Do you think we should eat now?” Firestar 
suggested. He didn’t want Sandstorm to think he was 
making all the decisions. “Then we could rest for a 
bit.” 

“What?” Sandstorm’s green eyes flew wide with 
shock. “Rest? Eat? Are you completely mouse- 
brained? We should keep going.” 


Firestar stared at her. “Well, if that’s what you 
want...” 

Amusement glimmered in Sandstorm’s eyes, and 
she let out a tiny snort of laughter. “No, you daft 
furball, I’m only joking. Eating’s a great idea, and as 
for resting, I’m practically asleep on my paws!” 

Flicking her ear with his tail tip, Firestar halted and 
stretched his jaws wide to taste the air. There was a 
strong scent of vole. Sandstorm angled her ears 
forward. “There,” she murmured. 

Firestar caught sight of the creature pulling itself out 
of the water a couple of tail lengths farther up the 
bank. “If we’re not careful, itll go straight back into 
the river.” 

“Stay there,” Sandstorm breathed. 

Slinking up the side of the hedge, she passed the 
vole and started creeping back toward it. When she 
was close to it, she leaped to the edge of the river, the 
water splashing up around her paws. Startled, the vole 
dashed up the bank, straight into Firestar’s paws. He 
killed it with a swift bite to the neck. 

“That was brilliant!” he exclaimed as Sandstorm 
joined him, shaking her wet paws. 


“Don’t expect me to make a habit of it,” she replied, 
flicking a droplet of water crossly from her nose. “I’m 
not a RiverClan cat.” 

As they shared the vole, the daylight grew stronger 
and the sun came up. The sky was blue, with only a 
few faint traces of cloud, high and misty. Firestar felt 
the warmth of the sun soaking into his fur. 

“Lets find a comfortable place to sleep,’ he 
suggested when he had finished the last mouthful of 
vole. 

Sandstorm’s only reply was a yawn. 

Not much farther along the path, they discovered a 
soft patch of moss among the hedge roots. Sunlight 
shone through the branches, dappling their pelts as they 
curled up together. Feeling Sandstorm’s tongue rasping 
along his neck, Firestar relaxed for what felt like the 
first time in days. He bent his head to his mate’s, 
sharing tongues until sleep drifted over them both. 


Firestar stood on the riverbank. It looked like the 
place where he had fallen asleep, but the hedge wasn’t 
so tall and bushy, and there was no sign of Sandstorm. 


Panic clawed at him for a moment. Then he realized 
that he was standing at the edge of a large group of 
cats. Some of them were sitting at the water’s edge, 
while others lay stretched out as if they were 
exhausted. 

Sound gradually faded up around him, the fretful 
mewling of kits and wails of distress from older cats. 

“How much farther?” a tabby kit was asking his 
mother. 

“My paws are sore!” a little tortoiseshell added. 

Their mother, a beautiful gray-furred queen, bent to 
give them both a comforting lick. “Not far now,” she 
promised them. “And then we’ll find a nice new 
home.” 

“I don’t want a new home,” the tortoiseshell kit 
protested. “I want to go back to our camp.” 

Her mother gave her ears a gentle lick. “Our camp 
is gone,” she mewed. “Twolegs have taken it. But 
we'll find a better one; you’ ll see.” 

The anxiety in her green eyes told Firestar that she 
wasn’t sure she was telling her kits the truth. He 
followed her gaze over the cats sprawled on the bank 
until he spotted the gray-and-white cat he had seen so 


many times, who had spoken to him in Smudge’s 
garden. He stood commandingly on the brink of the 
river, his head turned upstream. 

“Ts this the right way?” he meowed quietly. 

A small tabby she-cat, sitting on the bank beside 
him, replied, ““You’re our leader, so you have to decide. 
I’ve had no signs from StarClan since we left the 
forest.” 

“StarClan don’t care about us, Fawnstep,” growled 
the gray-and-white cat. “If they did, they would never 
have let the other Clans drive us out of the forest.” He 
bowed his head. “All we can do is keep going until we 
find a place to live.” 

Movement in the corner of his eye distracted 
Firestar. He froze as a long-furred tabby kit darted 
straight at him. He waited for it to spot him and raise 
the alarm, but it bundled past him, so close that their 
pelts almost brushed, and never noticed him. 

Suddenly realizing that none of the cats could see 
him, Firestar began to pad among them. He was 
horrified by how thin they were, their ribs visible 
through dull, ungroomed pelts. 

A black-and-white elder was lying on his side, his 


breath coming in short gasps. “I can’t go any farther,” 
he rasped. “You'll have to go on without me.” 

“Rubbish,” a ginger warrior growled. “No cat is 
staying behind.” 

The elder closed his eyes. “We should never have 
left the forest.” 

A brown tabby she-cat came to stand beside the 
ginger tom. “We’ll find a good place to stay; I 
promise.” 

“Better than the one we left,’ the ginger warrior 
agreed, lashing his tail. “Without the other Clans to 
bother us. No more border raids, no more prey 
stealmg. And especially no more Twolegs. We’ll have 
it all to ourselves.” 

The black-and-white elder let out a faint hiss. 
“Buzzardtail, there have always been five Clans in the 
forest.” 

“Not anymore,” the ginger tom muttered. 

“We’ll find you some fresh-kill,” the tabby meowed, 
“and you'll soon feel better.” Glancing at the tom, she 
added, “‘Let’s hunt.” 

The two cats left their Clanmates and began to 
prowl up the hedge. A squirrel sat chittering in a tree 


that spread its branches over the riverbank; the tabby 
she-cat gave an enormous leap and grabbed it in strong 
jaws, falling back to the ground with her prey between 
her paws. 

Firestar stared in amazement. What a catch! He 
had never seen a cat jump so high. At first he was 
surprised that the ginger tom didn’t congratulate her. 
Then he noticed that both cats had strong, muscular 
back legs; jumping must have been SkyClan’s special 
skill, just as RiverClan cats could swim well and 
WindClan cats could run fast after rabbits. 

The hunters took their fresh-kill back to the rest of 
their Clan. A couple of other warriors had killed voles, 
but it still wasn’t enough. He saw the fresh-kill being 
shared among the elders and mothers with kits first, 
just as he would expect from cats who followed the 
warrior code. 

When the Clan had devoured the prey in a few 
ravenous bites, the gray-and-white leader padded into 
their midst. “It’s time to go on,” he meowed. 

The whole Clan rose to their paws. The gray-and- 
white cat took the lead, heading upriver. The ginger 
tom and the tabby supported the black-and-white elder. 


As they limped past Firestar, he realized he could see 
river and grass through each pelt. The SkyClan cats 
seemed to walk one by one into a bank of pale mist, 
and Firestar found himself blinking awake in the 
sunlight under the hedge. 

“I must help them,” he murmured aloud. “Whatever 
happens, SkyClan must be found.” 


For the next three sunrises Firestar and Sandstorm 
journeyed on. The river grew steadily narrower, 
foaming around sharp gray rocks. Everywhere Firestar 
could see traces of the huge wave that had swept 
Sandstorm away: scattered branches, debris caught in 
the hedge, drying puddles left on the path. In the 
shallows under the bank, moorhens called miserably 
for lost chicks. 

“Do you think it’s much farther?” Sandstorm 
meowed. “If the river gets much narrower, it'll vanish 
altogether.” 

“Youre right. We should start looking for signs of 
SkyClan,” Firestar replied. 

“What sort of signs? Border scent markings?” 


Firestar shook his head. “I doubt it. That would 
mean there’s still a Clan protecting its territory. The 
SkyClan cat I spoke to said the Clan had been 
scattered.” 

“But there must be some SkyClan cats left,” 
Sandstorm pointed out. “Otherwise what are we doing 
here?” 

“Maybe there’ll be just a few cats, trying to live by 
the warrior code,” Firestar suggested. 

Sandstorm nodded, then sighed. “I wonder. Or 
maybe they don’t remember who they are anymore.” 

Looking ahead, Firestar saw the jagged tops of a 
range of hills. They didn’t look as sharp and bleak as 
Highstones, but they were higher than WindClan’s 
moorland. It might have looked like a refuge to a 
fleeing Clan who wanted to be far away from other 
cats and Twolegs. 

The path grew sandy, staining their paws orange and 
stinging their eyes when a breeze picked up. The sun 
was still strong; Firestar and Sandstorm were glad of 
the shade from trees that grew along the hedge. 

Firestar felt his neck fur begin to bristle as two or 
three Twoleg nests came into view. Was this the 


beginning of another Twolegplace to get lost in? The 
path led right past the front of the nests, and a litter of 
Twoleg kits were running up and down. 

Sandstorm touched his shoulder with her tail tip. 
“Let’s see if we can get around.” 

She found a gap in the hedge and led the way 
through into a field of rough grass. The two cats 
padded across it, skirting the fences of Twoleg 
gardens, until they came to a narrow Thunderpath. 

Firestar paused; the reek of monsters was faint and 
stale. He glanced at Sandstorm. “Do you think it’s safe 
to cross?” 

Sandstorm gave a quick glance up and down, then 
darted across. Firestar followed hard on her paws. On 
the other side was more rough grass, and it didn’t take 
long to skirt the remaining Twoleg nests until the river 
came in sight again. 

As they drew closer, Firestar could hear the squeals 
of more Twoleg kits. He let out a faint hiss of 
annoyance; he thought they had dodged all the 
Twolegs by avoiding the nests. Once he reached the 
path again he could see that here the river widened 
into a round, shallow pool. Several Twoleg kits were 


bouncing around in the shallows, shrieking happily and 
splashing one another with water. On the bank two 
older Twoleg females sat on pelts. 

“Playing in water!” Sandstorm wrinkled her nose 
with disgust as she came to stand beside Firestar. “I 
always knew Twolegs were mad. They’ll freeze to 
death without any hair on their pelts.” 

Before she finished speaking, a louder screech 
came from the young Twolegs. A couple of them 
bounded out of the water and dashed toward Firestar 
and Sandstorm with their paws outstretched, sending 
drops of water flying. 

“Run!” Firestar meowed. 

The first Twoleg kit nearly grabbed him as he 
whisked away. Behind him, he heard a yowl from one 
of the older Twoleg females. Glancing back, he saw 
that she had risen to her paws and was calling the 
young Twolegs, who trailed back toward her. Still, he 
and Sandstorm kept running until the river curved 
away and the Twoleg kits were left behind. 

At last they halted, sides heaving, where an elder 
bush cast deep shade over the riverbank. 

“T can hear something,” Sandstorm whispered. 


Firestar pricked his ears. From somewhere ahead 
came a roaring sound like the waterfall in RiverClan 
territory. Cautiously he led the way around the next 
bend. 

In front of him, water slid in a smooth curve over 
the top of a cliff, turning to white foam as it tumbled 
over jutting rocks and crashed into a pool below. The 
air was full of mist, splitting the sunlight into tiny 
dancing rainbows. 

Firestar stood still for a moment, enjoying the cool 
spray as it soaked into his hot fur. Meanwhile 
Sandstorm padded up to the edge of the pool and 
ventured out onto an overhanging rock. 

“Be careful!” Firestar called out, his heart lurching 
as he imagined her falling into the churning pool. “The 
rocks will be slippery.” 

Sandstorm waved her tail to show she’d heard him; 
Firestar hoped she wasn’t annoyed that he’d tried to 
warn her. A couple of heartbeats later, the ginger she- 
cat darted a paw down into the water; silver flashed in 
the air, and a fish lay wriggling on the rock. Sandstorm 
planted a paw on it to stop it from flopping back into 
the pool. 


“Hey, I thought you said you weren’t a RiverClan 
cat,” Firestar teased as he bounded up to her. 

Sandstorm picked the fish up in her jaws and joined 
him on the bank. “The stupid creature practically came 
up and begged to be caught,” she told him, dropping 
her prey at his paws. 

ThunderClan cats didn’t usually eat fish, but Firestar 
found the unfamiliar taste delicious as he devoured his 
share. Cleaning his whiskers when he had finished, he 
looked up at the cliff face beside the waterfall. Moss- 
covered rocks jutted out of it, with clumps of fern 
spilling over them. 

“It doesn’t look too hard to climb,’ he mewed. 
“We'd better try, before the sun goes down.” 

He started to claw his way up the rocks, anxiety 
throbbing through him as he struggled to keep his 
balance. The water thundered down less than a tail- 
length away; if they slipped into it they would be flung 
into the pool below. Where the rocks were bare they 
were slick with spray, and the moss pulled away when 
Firestar tried to put his weight on it. Ferns slapped him 
in the face, showering him with drops of water. 

Dragging himself onto a flat rock, he paused for a 


moment to rest, his flanks heaving as he fought for 
breath. Looking back to check on Sandstorm, he 
spotted her balanced precariously on a boulder at the 
bottom of a sheer slab of rock. 

“Are you stuck?” he called to her. “Hang on; PI 
come down and help.” 

Sandstorm gazed up at him and bared her teeth in a 
hiss that was drowned by the thunder of the water. 
“Stay where you are,” she called back. “I can 
manage.” 

Firestar flicked his tail irritably. Why did Sandstorm 
always have to prove that she could cope on her own? 
“Don’t be mouse-brained. You can’t—” 

“T said I can manage!” Sandstorm interrupted. “It’s 
no good putting us both in danger. One of us has to 
survive to find SkyClan.” 

Before Firestar could respond, his mate launched 
herself upward, snagging her claws in a clump of moss 
above her head. As the moss started to give way, she 
scrabbled with her hind paws until she reached a deep 
crack in the rock. From there she managed to spring 
across to where Firestar stood waiting, his heart 
pounding with alarm. 


“See?” Sandstorm shook herself, scattering drops of 
water from her pelt. “I told you I'd be fine.” 

Firestar pressed his muzzle against hers and tried to 
stop his legs from trembling. Then he began to climb 
again. His breath came fast and shallow, his pelt 
bristling with tension by the time he hauled himself up 
over the cliff edge and collapsed onto level ground. A 
heartbeat later Sandstorm joined him and flopped down 
by his side. He felt her warm breath on his ear. 

“Sorry,” she murmured. 

The sun was close to setting; the river reflected the 
red sky, barred with the long shadows of trees that lay 
across it. Firestar and Sandstorm padded on upstream; 
the river grew narrower still, and the banks rose until 
they were traveling through a sandy gorge, close to the 
edge of the water. It was smaller than the gorge at the 
edge of WindClan territory, but the sides were just as 
steep, and although there was still light in the sky they 
were soon walking through shadow. 

“We’d better find somewhere to spend the night,” 
Sandstorm suggested. “If there are any signs of 
SkyClan here, we could miss them in the dark.” 

As much as Firestar wanted to keep going, he knew 


that what she said was sensible. They found a small 
cave in the side of the gorge, sheltered by a stunted 
gorse bush, and crawled into it. The sandy floor was 
more comfortable than Firestar expected, and it was 
not long before he slept with Sandstorm’s sweet scent 
all around him. 

Daylight filtermg through the spiky gorse woke him. 
Alarm stabbed him when he saw that Sandstorm was 
not there. He pushed his way past the thorny branches 
and emerged beside the river, blinking in the bright 
sunlight and shaking seeds from his pelt. To his relief, 
Sandstorm was trotting toward him. 

“I thought I’d hunt,” she mewed as she came up to 
him, an annoyed look in her eyes. “But I haven’t found 
any prey. There’s hardly anywhere up here for them to 
live.” 

“Don’t worry. We’ll carry on and hunt on the way. 
There’s bound to be something.” 

Sandstorm’s only response was a sniff. Firestar 
knew how proud she was of her hunting skills; it was 
unusual for her not to bring back any prey at all. 

In full daylight he could see that their surroundings 
were very different from the lush territory below the 


waterfall. The sides of the gorge had turned into sandy 
cliffs, with a few straggly bushes and clumps of tough 
grass rooted in cracks. The path beside the river 
almost vanished on both sides, so the cats had to 
scramble over boulders in order to keep close to the 
water. Though they kept on stopping to scent the air, 
there was only the faintest trace of prey. 

“This is no good,” Firestar meowed after a while. 
“No cats could live this close to the water, with no 
space for a camp. We’d better climb to the top of the 
gorge.” 

This time the climb was easier; although the sandy 
cliff was smooth and slippery, there were cracks and 
occasional shallow ledges to give them plenty of 
pawholds. When Firestar scrambled over the edge 
wind buffeted his pelt, and he bounded a few pawsteps 
away from the cliff in case he was blown over. He 
found himself looking out over a wide stretch of sandy 
earth, with patches of scrubby grass dotted with 
stunted trees. In the distance he could just make out 
the walls of a Twolegplace, and the glitter of monsters 
speeding along a Thunderpath. 

“We’ll stay away from there, 


393 


he muttered as 


Sandstorm climbed up to join him. 

His mate was already scenting the air. “Rabbits!” 

Firestar didn’t feel too hopeful. He was used to 
stalking prey in thick woodland; he wasn’t a WindClan 
cat, swift enough to run it down in the open. “Let’s 
keep going,” he mewed. “There might be a better 
place to hunt farther on.” 

As they padded along the edge of the gorge, his 
paws began to tingle. He could smell cats! Tasting the 
air carefully, he tried to pick out the SkyClan scent that 
was familiar from his encounters with the Clan leader. 
But these scents were completely different. 

Sandstorm had drawn a few paces ahead, and had 
paused at the foot of a tree to sniff the bark. “Come 
and look at this,” she called, beckoning with her tail. 

Bounding up to her, Firestar saw long claw marks 
scored into the bark. The cat scent was stronger here, 
too. 

“A cat made those marks,” Sandstorm mewed, her 
green eyes gleaming. 

Firestar nodded. “One with long, sharp claws, by the 
look of it. Come on,” he meowed, eagerly drawing air 
over his scent glands again. “Let’s see what else we 


can find.” 

A few pawsteps farther on, a cloud of flies buzzed 
into the air when he almost stumbled onto the half- 
eaten body of a rabbit. 

“Ugh!” Backing away, he swiped his tongue over 
his jaws. “Crow-food.” 

Sandstorm examined the dead rabbit from a 
distance. “Some cat killed that. It didn’t die naturally, 
and there’s cat scent on it. So there are cats around 
here who hunt for prey.” 

Firestar made himself pad forward again and give 
the carcass a more careful scrutiny. “I’d guess the cat 
was hunting alone,” he meowed. “That would explain 
why it didn’t finish its meal.” 

“And they must be fast, like WindClan, to catch 
rabbits.” 

Firestar retreated, and they set out again along the 
edge of the gorge. “The scent on that rabbit was 
different from the scent by the tree. These are rogues, 
not Clan cats.” 

“But isn’t that what the SkyClan cat said?” 
Sandstorm asked. “That his Clan had been scattered?” 

Firestar didn’t reply. Although the signs of cats were 


encouraging, he had never really considered, until now, 
what it would be like to put a Clan together from 
rogues and kittypets. He would have to treat every cat 
as if he were training an apprentice—no, a kit, because 
these cats would have no knowledge of the warrior 
code, or what it meant to live in a Clan. The task was 
so daunting that for a heartbeat he thought of turning 
around to go home. Then he gritted his teeth with 
determination. He wouldn’t give up his quest until he 
had discovered exactly what cats lived here, and 
whether there was any hope of restoring SkyClan. But 
right now he felt as if his quest would never end, and 
he would never see the forest again. 

Sunhigh was past when they came to a sandy bank 
with several rabbit holes leading down into the earth. 
The scent of rabbits grew stronger. Suddenly one burst 
out from behind a gorse bush and fled along the edge 
of the gorge. Firestar raced after it but Sandstorm 
flashed past him, and he slowed to watch while she 
chased the prey and brought it down. 

“Well done!” he meowed, padding up to meet 
Sandstorm as she dragged the rabbit back. “Now 
you’re a WindClan cat!” 


When he and Sandstorm had shared the fresh-kill 
Firestar felt full-fed for the first time in days. If his 
mate could catch prey here, so could the SkyClan cats. 

Sandstorm blinked at him. “You’re excited, aren’t 
you?” 

Firestar nodded. “Every pawstep we take is bringing 
us closer.” 

“T’m glad I’m here with you.” 

Firestar touched his nose to her ear. “I’m glad 
you’re here, too. I don’t think I could do this without 
you.” 


They spent that night curled among the roots of a 
spreading oak tree, one of the few fullsized trees 
growing on this windswept cliff. With the scents of sap 
and bark wreathing around him, the rustle of leaves in 
his ears, Firestar could almost imagine that he was at 
home in the forest. 

Sunlight shining into his face woke him. His eyes 
flew open in alarm; how had he managed to sleep for 
so long? Then he realized that the roots where he had 
settled to sleep had vanished, replaced by the sandy 


walls and roof of a cave. Sunlight was angling in 
through the opening, a few tail-lengths away. The air 
around him was warm. He could hear the murmurs of 
many sleeping cats, and SkyClan scent surrounded 
him. Raising his head, he saw the furry shapes of 
warriors curled up among moss and bracken. 

A shadow fell across the cave, and Firestar saw a 
muscular tomcat outlined against the light. He 
recognized the ginger tom he had seen in his vision by 
the river. Fear clawed at him; what would these cats 
do to him when they found him in their den? But the 
ginger tom stared straight at him without seeing him, 
and Firestar realized that once again he was invisible to 
the SkyClan cats. 

“Come on,” the ginger warrior meowed. “It’s time 
you were moving.” 

All around Firestar the warriors began to stir and 
raise their heads. One of the m—the brown tabby she- 
cat who had caught the squirret—got up and arched 
her back in a long stretch. “Keep your fur on, 
Buzzardtail. We’re coming.” 

“Okay, Fernpelt, you can lead the dawn patrol,” the 
ginger tom went on. “Pick a couple of others to go 


with you, and keep your eyes open for that fox we 
spotted on the other side of the gorge.” 

Fernpelt flicked her tail. “Don’t worry. If we come 
across it, it’Il be crow-food.” 

The ginger tom stalked across the cave and prodded 
a sandy colored she-cat with one paw. “Up you get, 
Mousefang. You’re coming hunting with me, and we’ll 
pick up Oakpaw on the way. Nightfur,’ he added to a 
black tom on the other side of the cave, “you can lead 
another hunting patrol.” 

By now all the cats had risen to their paws and 
were shaking moss and bracken from their pelts. “This 
is our home now,” meowed Buzzardtail, glancing 
around approvingly. “You know where to go....” 

As he spoke, he and all the rest of the cats began to 
fade. For a heartbeat Firestar saw the sandy walls of 
the cave appearing through their pelts; then the cave 
walls dissolved too, and he was blinking awake in the 
gray dawn. Buzzardtail’s voice still echoed in his ears. 
You know where to go.... 

Firestar padded out from the shelter of the tree. The 
sky shone with a milky light, and a gentle breeze 
teased his fur. All his senses strained to pick up traces 


of the lost Clan. His paws tingled with their nearness; 
would this be the day when he found them? 

‘Tm here,” he mewed aloud. 

Turning back to where Sandstorm still slept, he 
spotted a mouse scuffling among the oak roots. He 
dropped into the hunter’s crouch and pounced on it, 
killing it swiftly with a bite to the throat. 

He woke Sandstorm by trailing the end of his tail 
across her nose. “Time to get up,” he announced, as 
her whiskers twitched and she opened her eyes. 
“There’s fresh-kill waiting for you.” 

When they continued their journey, they had to skirt 
thickets of gorse and bramble that grew close to the 
edge of the cliff. Firestar still picked up occasional 
traces of cats, but nothing to tell him where the Clan 
had gone. 

Then as the bushes dwindled, Sandstorm padded up 
to the edge of the cliff again. Firestar, who had scented 
a mouse among the brambles, heard her let out a gasp. 
He whirled around to see her starmg down into the 
gorge. 

“Firestar, come and see!” she exclaimed. “The river 
has vanished!” 


CHAPTER 15 


Abandoning his prey, Firestar rushed to her side 
and looked down. The sides of the gorge sloped down 
steeply to a narrow, bone-dry valley strewn with 
reddish rocks. There wasn’t even a trickle of water. 

His heart began to pound. “We must have passed 
the place where SkyClan camped,” he mewed to 
Sandstorm. “The gray-and-white cat told me to follow 
the river.” 

Sandstorm’s tail lashed. “Mouse dung! We’d better 
climb down and head back along the gorge.” 

Firestar took the lead as they climbed carefully 
down the steep cliff. Loose pebbles skidded beneath 
their paws; Firestar tried not to think about slipping all 
the way down in a flailing tangle of legs and tail, ending 
up broken at the bottom. He tried to step lightly, picking 
his way from one jutting rock to the next and using his 
tail for balance. 

By now the sun was high in the sky, and the rocky 
sides of the gorge reflected the heat. The hot ground 
scorched Firestar’s paws. Panting, he felt as if his fur 


were about to burst into flame. He disturbed a lizard 
basking on a rock; it whisked down a crack when his 
shadow fell on it. 

“At least we won’t starve,” he commented, pointing 
at the creature with his tail. 

Sandstorm wrinkled her nose. “Only ShadowClan 
eat scaly things,” she meowed. “I’d have to be really 
hungry before I tried it.” 

At last they reached the bottom of the gorge and 
began padding back the way they had come, weaving 
among the boulders. Firestar’s pelt prickled; nothing 
grew in this part of the gorge except for a few clumps 
of wiry grass and stunted bushes; there was no shelter, 
no undergrowth to conceal the cats from hostile eyes. 

“Its a good thing we’re not black or white,” 
Sandstorm murmured. “At least our pelts will help to 
hide us.” 

Firestar nodded tensely. “Stay alert. We don’t know 
what might be lurking down here.” 

As the sun slid down the sky, the shadow of the cliff 
fell across them. Firestar breathed more easily as the 
air grew cooler. He began to make out the sound of 
water up ahead. He took a deep breath, detecting the 


first traces of moisture in the dry air. 

Sandstorm’s tail went up. “I can hear the river!” 

Wishing for the soft ground of the forest instead of 
these sharp pebbles, Firestar picked up the pace until 
he and Sandstorm were bounding among the rocks. 
Rounding a bend, he stopped dead when he saw a pile 
of reddish boulders blocking the gorge. The lapping of 
water was louder, but he couldn’t see it. 

He scrambled up the pile of rocks, claws scraping 
on the crumbling stone, and peered cautiously over the 
top. Directly below him, water flowed smoothly out of 
a gaping black hole into a round pool before winding 
away down the gorge and out of sight. 

Sandstorm clambered up beside Firestar. “So this is 
where the river begins.” 

Firestar glanced around, half expecting to see the 
pale shapes of SkyClan warriors watching him from 
the cliffs. There were no cats in sight, but halfway up 
the side of the gorge he spotted several caves, dark, 
narrow openings tucked underneath the cliff. Narrow 
trails zigzagged across the cliff face, leading from one 
cave to the next. 

Firestar remembered his dream of waking among 


SkyClan warriors in a sandy cave. The deputy’s words 
echoed once more in his mind. This is our home now. 
You know where to go. 

“We are here,” he told Sandstorm quietly. 

“You think SkyClan lived in those caves?” 
Sandstorm sounded dubious. “Climbing up and down 
the cliffs every day?” 

“I think so.” 

Sandstorm rose to her paws. “Okay, but I’m not 
going to look until we’ve had a drink. My mouth feels 
as dry as the gorge.” 

She began to pick her way down the pile of boulders 
on the other side, following the river until she reached 
the pool where the river flowed out. Firestar jomed her 
as she crouched down and began to lap. The water 
was icy cold; it soaked through his scorched fur and 
Firestar thought that he would never want to stop 
drinking. 

The water flowed swiftly but without making a 
sound. A blue-green light sparkled under the surface, 
but further under the heap of boulders everything was 
dark. The cave gaped like an open mouth, silently 
waiting. ... 


Firestar shivered and sat up, shaking droplets from 
his whiskers. Sandstorm was staring at something on 
the dried mud beside the pool. 

“Look at that,” she mewed. 

In the mud were the clear pawprints of a cat! “It 
could be a rogue, just passing through,” Firestar 
pointed out, “or even an adventurous kittypet.” 

Sandstorm sniffed. “Very adventurous, for a kittypet. 
Let’s have a look at those caves.” 

The side of the gorge was even steeper here than 
where they had climbed down. Firestar struggled to 
keep his footing among the loose pebbles, convinced he 
was about to slip. After the first few tail-lengths he left 
the shadows behind, and the blazing heat struck him 
like a blow. Dust puffed up under his paws, making 
him as thirsty as ever. 

But when he reached the first of the trails, the going 
became easier. It looked as if the cliff face had been 
scraped out to expose a flattened trail that led back 
and forth in a gentle slope, connecting each of the 
caves. Firestar headed for the highest entrance, which 
also looked to be the biggest. He pressed close to the 
cliff, avoiding the drop on the other side. Sandstorm 


was just behind him, puffing her breath out in a sigh of 
relief as she followed him onto the level floor of the 
cave. 

Firestar stared around him. He had been here 
before. The cave was several times the size of his den 
in the ThunderClan camp. Inside it was cool and 
shadowy, with sheer walls and a sandy floor. It was 
sheltered from rain or blistering heat, and it would be 
difficult for enemies to reach. 

For a few heartbeats he stood still, imagining how 
the SkyClan cats would have felt when they reached 
this refuge. Had they been joyful to find shelter, or 
wary of danger lurking in the shadows? Had they 
longed for their camp in the forest? Or were they just 
too tired to care? For a moment they were all around 
him again; he could hear their mews and feel their 
pelts brushing against his own. 

“What do you think of those?” Sandstorm asked, 
pointing with her tail to a few shallow scrapes in the 
floor at the back of the cave. “Filled with moss and 
bracken, they’d make pretty good nests.” 

“Yes, but where would they find moss and bracken 
around here?” Firestar asked. “I didn’t see any 


growing in the gorge.” 

“There might be some on the cliffs.” 

Firestar nodded, tasting the air again. The cave was 
full of animal scents: he could discern mouse and vole, 
and even cat, but none of them smelled fresh. He 
padded forward, nosing around the scrapes Sandstorm 
had spotted; only the memory of his dream assured 
him that they really were nests, not just natural dips in 
the cave floor. 

“Let’s go and explore some of the other caves.” 
Firestar headed for the entrance, only to stop dead a 
tail-length inside. His heart had started to thump again. 
“Look at that,” he whispered. 

At one side of the entrance was a narrow column of 
rock, attached on one side to the cave wall. Thickly 
scored down the lower half were the marks of claws. 
Hardly daring to breathe, Firestar padded across, 
raised his forepaws, and placed his own claws in the 
marks. 

“A perfect fit!” Sandstorm breathed. 

She was right. Firestar’s claws slipped into the 
marks as if he had made them himself. He shivered to 
think that his paws were resting where those other 


cats had been, so long ago. 

“Look at those other marks.” Sandstorm padded up 
to the stone trunk and laid one paw against it, close to 
the bottom. 

For the first time Firestar noticed some tiny 
scratches running sideways across the trunk. “Maybe 
kits made them.” 

Sandstorm looked doubtful. “Why would they 
scratch crosswise, instead of up and down?” 

Firestar shrugged. “Why do kits do anything? 
Anyway, it doesn’t matter. This is the place,’ he 
meowed, suddenly more confident than ever. “This is 
where SkyClan made their camp.” 

Sandstorm’s green eyes glinted. “Then where are 
they now?” 


They spent the rest of the day exploring the other 
caves. Firestar’s paws tingled as they kept discovering 
more of the claw marks, proof that all these caves had 
once been inhabited by cats. 

“Look!” Sandstorm murmured in the next cave they 
visited, resting her tail tip gently against the wall. 


“Nothing but tiny marks! This must have been the 
nursery.” 

Firestar glanced back at the entrance; a boulder 
blocked most of it, hiding it from hostile eyes and 
keeping it cool even in blazing sunlight. “The kits and 
their mothers would have been safe here.” 

Sandstorm padded farther into the cave, her pale 
ginger pelt a blur in the shadows. “There are bigger 
scrapes in the floor, too,” she reported. “Just the right 
size for a queen and her litter.” 

Further down the cliff face they found smaller caves 
that might have been dens for the apprentices, the 
medicine cat, and the Clan leader. Finally they returned 
to the first cave. 

“I guess this was the warriors’ den,’ Firestar 
meowed, not wanting to bring up his dream. “There’s 
plenty of space, and it’s near the top of the cliff. 
They’d be able to protect the rest of the Clan if foxes 
or Twolegs tried to get down.” 

Sandstorm thoughtfully tasted the air. “There’s cat 
scent here,’ she announced. “Not fresh, but it’s all 
we’ve smelled so far. I think at least one cat was here 
in the last moon or so.” 


Firestar padded slowly around the cave and spotted 
something white glimmering in a crevice between a 
boulder and the wall. He poked one paw into the gap 
and drew out a heap of tiny white bones. “A mouse or 
a vole,” he commented to Sandstorm, who had come 
to have a look. “You’re right; cats have been here, but 
it doesn’t look as if they live here permanently. If they 
did, the scent would be fresh.” 

“I wonder why they come?” Sandstorm didn’t sound 
as if she expected an answer, and Firestar couldn’t 
give her one. 

By now the sun had gone down and the gorge was 
filled with shadows. They climbed the last few tail- 
lengths to the cliff top and hunted among the bushes 
along the edge. When they had eaten, they returned to 
the warriors’ den for the night. 

‘Im so exhausted, I could sleep for a moon.” 
Sandstorm sighed, turning around in one of the shallow 
scrapes and curling up with her tail over her nose. 

Her steady breathing soon told Firestar that she was 
asleep. He sat beside her, gazing around the cave and 
picturing the way it had been in his dream: warm, 
breathing bodies in nests of moss and bracken, and one 


cat, awake as he was, on watch. 

He blinked, and the cats vanished. Pale silver light 
from the half-moon washed into the cave, lapping at 
his fur. But there was no sound, no flicker of a pale 
pelt to disturb the shadows. 

Did SkyClan scatter too long ago? he wondered. 
Is there any hope of finding their descendants? Or 
have I come too late? 


CHAPTER 16 


The sound of rustling and faint voices woke 
Firestar. Stretching his jaws in a yawn, he thought it 
must be time to get up and make sure the dawn patrol 
had left. When he blinked his eyes open he saw the 
unfamiliar cave with its sandy walls and bare scrapes 
in the rock, and the memory of where he was flooded 
back into his mind. For a moment he had thought that 
he was back in his old den under the Highrock, 
sleeping in warm moss and bracken with sunlight 
filtermg through the curtain of lichen at the entrance. 
Instead he was in a deserted cave that had once been 
part of the SkyClan camp, with Sandstorm stirring at 
his side. 

Sandstorm raised her head. “I thought I heard 
something.” 

“So did I.” Firestar sprang to his paws. He could still 
hear movement from the cliff top, and when he tasted 
the air he picked up a strong, fresh scent of cat. 

Raising his tail to warn Sandstorm to stay still and 
quiet, he padded toward the entrance. Daylight slanted 


into the cave from a pale sky; the sun hadn’t yet risen 
above the gorge, and the air was cool. He peered out 
of the cave mouth. Looking up, he was just in time to 
see a dark tabby tail whisking out of sight into the 
bushes that grew on the cliff top. 

“Is he there?” a cat meowed nervously. 

“T think so!” 

Stretching his neck out further, Firestar took a 
breath to call out, but before he could make a sound a 
pebble flew down from the cliff top, skimming past less 
than a mouse-length from his nose, and pattered down 
into the gorge. More sounds of scrabbling came from 
above, and a half-stifled mrrow of laughter. 

The first voice called out, “Did you find what you 
were looking for in the sky, stupid old furball?” 

“I’m not surprised you don’t have any friends, dog- 
breath!” the second voice added. “Bet you can’t catch 
us!” 

Another stone came bouncing down the cliff, barely 
missing Firestar, and he heard the sound of two cats 
scrambling through the bushes with loud, triumphant 
meows. 

Furious, he launched himself upward. But by the 


time he clawed his way over the cliff and thrust his 
way through the undergrowth, the two cats were too 
far away to be worth chasing. He spotted them, a dark 
tabby and a tortoiseshell, racing toward the distant 
Twolegplace. 

“Mouse dung!” he exclaimed. 

Rustling in the bushes behind him announced the 
arrival of Sandstorm. “What was all that about?” 

“T don’t know. But if any Clanmate of mine spoke to 
me like that, they would spend the next moon 
searching the elders for ticks.” 

Sandstorm rubbed her muzzle against his. “Well, 
they don’t know that you’re Firestar, leader of 
ThunderClan,” she consoled him. “For all they know, 
we might be rogues trying to muscle in on their 
territory.” 

“T’m not so sure.” Firestar gazed across the scrubby 
grassland to the Twolegplace, where the two cats had 
now vanished. “They thought there was only one cat 
there, so they can’t have seen us arrive. And their 
insults meant something; they seemed to know exactly 
who they were talking to.” 

“Then there must be another cat around here,” 


Sandstorm mewed. “Maybe the one who left those 
bones in the cave?” 

“Maybe.” He turned back into the thicket and began 
to explore more thoroughly. He managed to pick up 
several different cat scents among the bushes, as well 
as mice and birds. 

“No foxes or badgers,” Sandstorm commented, 
coming face-to-face with him around the trunk of a 
holly bush. 

“At least that’s something,” Firestar mewed. “Most 
of the cat scents are kittypet, including fresh ones from 
our visitors. I’d like to talk to them. They might know if 
cats once lived in the caves.” 

“They might.” Sandstorm gave a disgusted sniff. 
“But will they be willing to tell us?” 

Firestar didn’t reply. Turning away from 
Twolegplace, the two cats hunted in the bushes, then 
climbed down the stony trails into the bottom of the 
gorge. Reaching the river, Firestar spotted more caves 
on the opposite side, lower down than the ones they 
had already explored. 

“I wonder if SkyClan used those caves too,” he 
meowed, pointing with his tail. 


“They must have been a big Clan, if they did,” 
Sandstorm replied. “There’s plenty of space in the 
caves we’ve already seen.” 

“Still, we’d better check them out.” 

They climbed the pile of rocks where the river 
flowed out, and crossed to the far side of the gorge. 
There was no cat scent in the other caves, and no 
evidence of claw marks or bones to suggest that cats 
had ever been there. 

“I expect it’s because these caves don’t get much 
sun,” Sandstorm suggested. “It’d be cold and dark for 
most of the day.” 

Firestar thought she must be right. He was thankful 
to leave the last cave and head for the river again. 

A sudden yowl from the top of the gorge froze his 
paws to the ground. Four Twolegs stood outlined 
against the sky. 

“This way—quick!” Sandstorm hissed at him from 
the shelter of a boulder. 

Firestar bounded over to her and crouched by her 
side, hoping the Twolegs hadn’t spotted him. Peering 
out, he saw that they were all young males. Yowling 
loudly, they clambered down the side of the gorge as 


far as the pool. Firestar didn’t know whether they 
were looking for him and Sandstorm; he could feel her 
heart racing as he pressed against her side. 

Then he saw the young Twolegs pulling off some of 
their pelts. With the loudest yowl of all, one of them 
leaped from a boulder at the side of the pool and 
plunged into the water. His three friends jumped in 
after him, then climbed out of the pool, shaking water 
from their head fur, and then leaped in again. 

“Thank StarClan!” Firestar let out a sigh of relief. 
“They don’t know we’re here. They’ve just come to 
play in the water, like those others downstream.” 

Sandstorm shrugged. “I keep telling you, Twolegs 
are mad.” 

They stayed out of sight until the young Twolegs 
were tired of their game. Once they had put their pelts 
back on and begun the climb back to the cliff top, the 
two cats ventured out of the shelter of the boulder. 

“I wonder if they come down here a lot,” Sandstorm 
mewed. “SkyClan wouldn’t have been happy living so 
close to Twolegs.” 

“True,” Firestar agreed. “But at least they make 
enough noise. A cat would always know when they’re 


coming.” 

He leaped across the rocks to the opposite side of 
the river, thankful to emerge into sunlight again. “I 
haven’t seen any fish here,’ he remarked as 
Sandstorm joined him. 

“T haven’t seen any fish since below the waterfall,” 
she meowed. “Prey here is mice and voles and birds. 
And maybe a few rabbits.” 

“And most of that at the top of the cliffs,” Firestar 
mused. “It can’t have been an easy life.” 

“Maybe that’s why they’re not here now.” 

Firestar wondered if she was right. He and 
Sandstorm had managed to feed themselves without 
much trouble, but would there be enough for a whole 
Clan? 

They were climbing back to the warriors’ cave 
when Sandstorm halted. ‘“There’s another trail here,” 
she announced, angling her ears toward a narrow, 
stony path that led slantwise up the rock. Firestar could 
just make out faint pawprints in the dust, as if at least 
one cat had been that way recently. “I didn’t notice it 
before. Do you think we should follow it?” 

Firestar nodded. “It can’t do any harm.” 


The trail led farther up the gorge until it ended at a 
deep cleft in the cliff face. Beyond the cleft was a flat 
rock that jutted out over the gorge. 

Sandstorm glanced back at Firestar, looking puzzled. 
“It’s a dead end. Why did they come this way when 
there’s nothing here?” 

Firestar studied the ledge, the rock, and the sheer 
walls of the rift. A cat who lost its footing here would 
go plummeting right down to the floor of the gorge. 

“T’m not sure,” he replied. “Maybe...” 

He crouched down, then pushed off with powerful 
hind legs and leaped, to land with all four paws on the 
flat rock. 

“Firestar!” Sandstorm yowled. “Have you lost your 
mind?” 

He didn’t reply, but stood upright on the rock, facing 
into the breeze that ruffled his fur and brought to him 
the mingled scents of stone and water, undergrowth 
and prey. If he looked up the gorge he could see the 
dry valley growing narrower still as it wound upward; 
Just below was the place where water flowed out from 
the heap of red rocks, and he followed the river with 
his gaze until it became lost in the misty distance. The 


rock beneath his paws was smooth and warm; he 
wanted to sprawl there and bask in the sunlight, as his 
Clan did at Sunningrocks. 

“Come over!” he called to Sandstorm. “It’s 
wonderful!” 

Sandstorm paused, her tail flicking. Then she 
seemed to make her mind up, gathered herself for the 
leap, and landed neatly beside Firestar. “Do you want 
us to get our necks broken?” she asked crossly. 

“Just look!” Firestar swept his tail around. “A cat on 
watch here could see danger coming from anywhere.” 

As Sandstorm scanned the gorge, her annoyed look 
vanished and the fur on her shoulders lay flat again. 
“You're right,” she admitted. With a sudden change of 
mood she lay on her side and dabbed one paw playfully 
toward Firestar. “It’s great up here. Why don’t we rest 
for a bit?” 

Firestar settled down beside her on the sun-warmed 
stone, feeling the heat soak into his fur. Drowsily 
sharing tongues with his mate, he found his mind 
drifting back to Sunningrocks and the forest. There 
would be a Gathering soon, and the other Clans would 
discover that he had left. What would they do then? 


Firestar felt his paws itching to carry him home, and 
had to remind himself that SkyClan still needed him. If 
he ever found them... 

As the sun sank they hunted again and ate their prey 
before they returned to the warriors’ cave. 

“Where are all the cats we scented?” Firestar 
wondered. “We haven’t seen a single one, not since 
those rude kittypets first thing this morning.” 

Sandstorm limped inside the cave and rasped her 
tongue over one paw. “I’m not surprised they don’t 
come here. This isn’t a good place for cats. Okay, 
there’s water and shelter, but prey is hard to come by. 
My paws are rubbed sore from scrambling up and 
down rocks all day. I can’t even find any dock to rub 
on them. And my claws are nearly wrenched out from 
hauling myself into caves.” 

Firestar’s paws were sore too, with dust and grit 
stuck between the pads. He longed for the cool touch 
of lush grass and fern. For a couple of heartbeats he 
was tempted to climb down and soothe his paws by 
wading in the shallows at the edge of the river, but he 
would only have the long climb back afterward. 

“SkyClan must have had paws made of stone if they 


lived here,” Sandstorm added as she finished cleaning 
one paw and started on another. 

Firestar was about to agree with her when he 
remembered his dream of SkyClan beside the river, 
and how one cat had jumped up powerfully into a tree. 
That skill would come in useful here, too, to leap from 
boulders and into caves without scraping their pads and 
claws on the rough stone. 

Suddenly curious, he padded to the cave entrance 
and examined the rocks outside. There were fresh 
scratch marks that he and Sandstorm had made, but 
hardly any old markings that might have been made by 
SkyClan. They would have jumped up and down the 
cliff face instead of having to scramble; even the leap 
to the flat rock would have been easy for them. 

“Tt wouldn’t suit us here,’ he meowed slowly to 
Sandstorm. “But it suited SkyClan. They knew how to 
jump. They already had the skills they needed. This 
was their home—but where are they now?” 


Mist lay thick in the gorge and pressed against the 
cliff face when Firestar woke the next morning. He 


looked out cautiously, half expecting another stone to 
be hurled at him by the kittypets. But everything was 
silent, even the sound of the river deadened by the fog. 

He roused Sandstorm, and they climbed to the cliff 
top to hunt. Prey scent was harder to pick up in the 
cool, damp air; Firestar prowled through the thickets 
without success. “Not even a mouse tail!” he 
muttered. 

Frustrated, he emerged from the bushes and stared 
across the open ground toward Twolegplace, 
wondering what the chances would be of tracking 
down a rabbit. Then he heard a fluttering of wings; 
glancing to one side, he spotted a sparrow pecking at 
the ground underneath a bush. 

As silently as he could he glided forward, one paw 
after another, gradually closing the distance between 
himself and his prey. He was readying himself to 
pounce when there was a commotion in the bushes 
and another cat burst out, front paws extended toward 
the sparrow. 

The bird let out a loud alarm call and took off; the 
newcomer sprang up at once in a tremendous leap. His 
claws just grazed the sparrow’s wings as it fluttered to 


safety in a tree. A couple of feathers spiraled down. 
The cat, a dark brown rogue, stood panting, gazing up 
at the bird and lashing his tail. 

Stiff-legged with fury, Firestar stalked up to him until 
the two cats were standing nose-to-nose. “That was 
my prey,” Firestar hissed. His frustration spilled over; 
he was hungry, he and Sandstorm had traveled all this 
way to find nothing but empty caves, and now this 
mangy, crow-food-eating tom had just frightened away 
his first chance of food that day. 

“Rubbish,” the rogue retorted. “It was mine.” 

Firestar let out a snort of disgust. “I would have 
caught it if you hadn’t come crashing through the 
bushes like that. Has no cat ever taught you to hunt?” 

The rogue’s neck fur bristled and he peeled back his 
lips in a snarl. Firestar arched his back, hissing in anger 
and flashing out a paw with claws extended. For a 
heartbeat both cats stood frozen, glaring angrily at 
each other. Firestar braced himself to spring, but then 
the rogue flattened his ears and took a couple of paces 
back. Letting out a last snarl, he whipped around and 
slunk off down the line of bushes. 

“Oh, great!” At the sound of Sandstorm’s voice 


Firestar turned to see her poking her head out from 
behind a bramble bush. “We’re supposed to be talking 
to the local cats, not scaring them off.” 

Firestar’s fur grew hot with embarrassment. He 
glanced after the rogue, only to see the stocky brown 
shape bounding away along the edge of the gorge. 

“Sorry,” he meowed. “I suppose I was a bit hasty. 
But it should have been obvious that the sparrow was 
mine.” He gave his chest fur a few quick licks to help 
himself calm down. “I’m not used to sharing territory 
with cats who’ve never heard of the warrior code.” 

“Well, you'll have to get used to it.” Sandstorm 
emerged from the bush and padded over to him. “You 
can’t expect the cats here to live by the rules we have 
at home. I don’t suppose they even know about 
StarClan.” 

Her words chilled Firestar. She was right; they 
couldn’t expect that StarClan had followed them so 
far. How could he carry out his mission without his 
warrior ancestors to protect and guide him? He 
couldn’t even be sure that SkyClan’s warrior ancestors 
walked these skies. He glanced up, wondering if the 
gray-and-white leader was watching him, but nothing 


broke the white blanket of fog. 


Eventually they managed to catch a couple of mice, 
and headed back toward the cave. As they were 
weaving their way among the bushes, Firestar heard 
rustling ahead of them, and picked up a familiar 
kittypet scent. He flipped the end of his tail across 
Sandstorm’s mouth for silence, and slipped into the 
shelter of a gorse bush. 

Before many heartbeats had gone by, two cats 
came into view, thrusting their way through the bushes 
from the direction of the cliff edge. One was a dark 
tabby tom, the other a smaller tortoiseshell. Firestar 
was certain that they were the same two cats who had 
taunted him the day before. 

His paws itched to confront them, but he was too 
far away to surprise them and he didn’t want to make 
a fool of himself. Besides, if he did speak to them they 
would probably just deny they had done anything 
wrong. He let them go back toward the Twolegplace. 

“What’s the matter?” Sandstorm batted irritably at 
his tail. 


“T think they’re the cats who threw stones at me 
yesterday,” Firestar explained. “T need to talk to them, 
but I want to figure out what to say first.” 

He headed for the cave, hoping to settle down and 
think, but as they scrambled down the steep, slippery 
trail to the entrance a foul smell rolled out to meet 
them. 

Sandstorm curled her lip. “What’s that disgusting 
reek?” She pushed past Firestar and leaped up into the 
cave. 

When Firestar jomed her he found her standing over 
the body of a mouse. It had obviously been dead for 
days; white maggots were wriggling through the 
remains of its fur. The stink of it filled the whole cave. 

“It must be those kittypets!” Firestar snarled. “I 
suppose it’s their idea of a joke, leaving crow-food in a 
cave where cats are living.” 

“If I catch them, PI show them it’s no joke,” 
Sandstorm growled. 

“Better get it out of here.” Firestar sighed. 

Dabbing at it with their paws, they managed to push 
the mouse out of the cave and over the rocks until it 
fell down the cliff. Back in the cave, Sandstorm 


scraped sand over the damp, stinking patch where it 
had lain. 

“Jell take forever to get rid of the smell,’ she 
complained. “And it’s all over my paws. I’ll have to go 
down to the river to wash.” 

Firestar padded to the cave entrance and took in 
gulps of clean air. He hadn’t expected this sort of 
welcome. The cats who lived here were rude and 
interfering, and if they lived by any kind of code he 
couldn’t imagine what it was. 

“Rogues aren’t like this in the forest,’ he mewed to 
Sandstorm. “Mostly they keep to themselves, and stay 
away from the Clans’ territories.” 

“But there arent any Clans here,’ Sandstorm 
pointed out. “Back in the forest, most cats know about 
the warrior code. And if they don’t want to live by it, 
they know how to stay away from us.” 

Firestar watched the mist at the bottom of the 
gorge. The warrior code was the basis of life in all the 
Clans. Kits drank it in with their mother’s milk. Out 
here no cat knew of it—but they had once, as well as 
any cat in the forest. He wondered if he would ever be 
able to awaken the memory of the warrior code in this 


scorched place. 

‘TIl have to make a start somewhere,” he muttered, 
speaking half to himself. “And I think I know where.” 
Straightening up, he added, “Sandstorm, tomorrow 
we’re going to talk to those kittypets.” 


CHAPTER 17 


“Ow!” Sandstorm halted at the foot of a thornbush, 
letting out a yowl of pain and shaking one forepaw. 

“Shh!” Firestar hissed. “You'll bring every cat in 
Twolegplace down on us.” 

Sandstorm blinked at him. “I thought that was the 
point? I’m sorry,” she added, giving her paw a quick 
swipe with her tongue. “I trod on a thorn; that’s all.” 

Firestar glanced around. “I don’t think any cat 
heard. Okay, carry on. As soon as the kittypets arrive, 
get down to the cave. Remember, it’s best if they don’t 
get a good look at you.” 

“T know.” Annoyance sparked in Sandstorm’s eyes. 
“We went through all this last night.” 

“Right, then.” Firestar took another quick look 
around, then pushed through the undergrowth until he 
reached the nearest tree. Clawing his way up the 
trunk, he settled himself on the lowest branch, hidden 
from below by thick bunches of leaves. 

Beneath the tree, Sandstorm went on hunting. Water 
flooded Firestar’s jaws when he saw her bring down a 


mouse. Neither of them had eaten since the night 
before. His claws worked impatiently on the branch. 
He couldn’t be sure if the kittypets would come, but 
the plan he had worked out with Sandstorm seemed to 
be the only chance of talking to some of the cats who 
lived near the abandoned camp. 

He heard a rustling in the bushes a short way off. 
Peering through the leaves, he caught a glimpse of a 
tortoiseshell pelt. His gaze flicked to Sandstorm; she 
was peering into the depths of a bush. Firestar didn’t 
dare call out to her in case he alerted the kittypets. 

Then Sandstorm sat up, jaws parted as if she had 
detected a scent. A heartbeat later she grabbed up the 
mouse she had caught and vanished through the 
bushes toward the edge of the gorge. 

“Hey, he’s here!” It was the tabby kittypet speaking, 
pushing through the undergrowth until he stood almost 
directly under Firestar’s tree. “I saw the bushes 
shaking where he went down to the cave.” 

His tortoiseshell companion slipped past him, 
following the route Sandstorm had taken. 

Dont they ever pick up a scent? Firestar 
wondered. Can t they tell it’s a different cat? 


Both kittypets vanished again, but he could still hear 
their voices, raised as if they were calling down to the 
cave. 

“Hey, dog-breath, did you like the present we left for 
you?” 

“I bet it was the best mouse you’ve eaten this moon. 
We saved it just for you.” 

“Did you, now?” Firestar muttered. Okay, time to 
go. 

He leaped down from the tree and followed the 
kittypets through the bushes to the cliff edge. When 
their backs came into view he halted, taking up a 
position beside a thick growth of bramble. The 
kittypets wouldn’t want to push through that to get 
away from him. 

“Crazy old furball!” the tortoiseshell called out. 
“Mangy old—” 

“Who are you talking to?” Firestar interrupted 
loudly. 

Both kittypets spun around, jaws gaping in identical 
amazed expressions. Firestar looked them over, raised 
one paw and licked it reflectively, then allowed his 
claws to slide out. The kittypets’ eyes widened. 


“Er...we weren’t talking to any cat,” the tabby tom 
replied, his forepaws scuffling on the ground. 

“You mean you sit on the edge of the cliff calling out 
to no cat?” Firestar asked. “You must be really weird 
to do that.” 

“We’re not weird!” the tortoiseshell flashed back. 

“Then tell me who you think is down there.” 

“We don’t know. We haven’t done anything.” The 
tabby tom took a pace forward. “Let us go!” 

The tortoiseshell stepped forward to stand beside 
her companion, their pelts brushing. Neither of them 
seemed to have the confidence to push past Firestar, 
and he was blocking the only route through the thorns. 
Both young cats jumped and huddled closer as a 
rustling came from the cliff edge and Sandstorm 
hauled herself into view. 

The kittypets stared at her. 

“You’re not—’” the tortoiseshell blurted out. 

“Not who?” Firestar demanded. 

Sandstorm padded forward and sat beside the 
kittypets, who shrank away from her. “Firestar, don’t 
sound so fierce,” she meowed, flashing him a warning 
look. “They haven’t done any harm—well, not much.” 


“We didn’t mean to,” the tabby tom insisted. 

‘Pm sure you didn’t.” Sandstorm’s voice was 
soothing; Firestar wished the kittypets could have 
heard her when she was telling off a careless 
apprentice. “Why don’t you start by teling us your 
names?” 

“I’m Boris, and she’s my sister Cherry,” the tabby 
replied and added nervously, “What are you going to do 
with us?” 

“We won’t hurt you,’ Sandstorm promised, with 
another hard look at Firestar, who sheathed his claws 
and wrapped his tail around his paws. “We’re just 
looking for some cats who might have lived here long 
ago.” 

Boris looked puzzled. “Which cats?” 

“A Clan of cats,’ Firestar meowed. When the 
kittypets still looked blank, he added, “They used to live 
in these caves...warrior cats in one, older cats in 
another, queens and their litters in another, and so on. 
They had a leader, and they taught their young cats the 
warrior code. They defended their borders—” 

“Oh, them!” the tortoiseshell, Cherry, meowed 
impatiently. “We’ve heard stories about them.” She 


paused. “According to some of the cats around here, 
there used to be a lot of fierce cats who lived in these 
caves. They even used to eat kittypets!” 

“That’s a load of mouse dung,” Boris protested. “I 
can fight as well as any cat. They wouldn’t eat me!” 

“I didn’t see you being so keen to fight this cat.” 
His sister flicked her tail at Firestar. “Anyway, those 
cats have gone now, all except crazy old Moony.” 

“Who’s Moony?” Sandstorm asked, and Firestar 
added, “Is that who you thought was down in the 
cave?” 

The two kittypets exchanged a glance, beginning to 
look embarrassed again. Boris ducked his head and 
started to lick his chest fur. 

“He’s just this mad old cat,’ Cherry muttered. “He 
doesn’t live here, but he comes here every full moon, 
and sits on that rock that sticks out over the gorge. He 
spends ages staring up at the moon—that’s why we 
call him Moony.” 

“Then he sleeps one night in that cave before he 
goes away again,” Boris added. 

Cherry gave a disdainful sniff. “Every cat around 
here knows that he’s mad. If you try to talk to him, he 


just tells you weird stories about cats in the stars.” 

Firestar felt every hair on his pelt stand on end. This 
was the first clue that any trace of Clan life survived, 
that any cat knew what it meant to be a warrior. 

“Cats in the stars?” he asked sharply. “Are you 
sure?” 

“Of course I’m sure,” Cherry mewed. “I’ve listened 
to him often enough.” 

“And if he did have anything to do with those other 
cats,” her brother added, “they can’t have been very 
fierce. Moony never fights back, whatever—” 

He broke off as his sister gave him a sharp prod 
with one paw and hissed, “Mouse-brain!” 

Firestar would have liked to cuff both young cats 
around the ears, but when he met Sandstorm’s gaze, 
she shook her head. Regretfully, Firestar admitted she 
was right. They would get more out of the kittypets if 
they didn’t scare them. 

“Moony hasn’t done anything wrong, has he?” 
Firestar asked, deliberately making his voice gentle. 
“He hasn’t hurt you or stolen your food?” 

Both kittypets shook their heads, not meeting his 
gaze. 


“Then you should leave him alone.” 

The two kittypets exchanged a guilty glance. “I told 
you this wasn’t Moony!” Cherry hissed to her brother. 
“The moon isn’t full yet.” 

“Well, how was I to know?” Boris complained. “No 
other cats have ever come here.” 

“Never mind that.” Firestar interrupted their 
argument before it had a chance to get properly 
started. “What can you tell us about Moony? Where 
does he live when he isn’t here?” 

Cherry shrugged. “Dunno.” 

“He must come from farther up the gorge,” Boris 
offered, waving his dark-striped tail in that direction. 
“We’d have noticed if he came up the river.” 

“And that’s all you can tell us?” Sandstorm leaned 
forward and fixed both young cats with a penetrating 
green gaze. 

“That’s really all.” Boris’s yellow eyes widened. 
“Can we go now?” 

“I think they can, don’t you, Firestar?” 

Firestar paused for a couple of heartbeats, long 
enough for the two young cats to understand that they 
weren’t getting off too lightly. “I suppose so,’ he 


mewed at last. “But no more tormenting defenseless 
cats, okay?” 

“We won’t!” Boris promised. He prodded his sister. 
“Will we?” 

“No, not anymore.” Cherry flattened her ears. “We 
just didn’t think...” 

“Next time, try not to be so mouse-brained,” Firestar 
meowed, drawing aside to leave a narrow tunnel 
through the undergrowth. “Off you go.” 

Relief flooded the eyes of both young cats. They 
crept hesitantly past Firestar, as if they weren’t 
completely sure his claws would stay sheathed. Once 
they were safely past him, they shouldered their way 
out of the thicket and broke into a run. As Cherry 
dashed past the tree where Firestar had hidden, she 
gave a tremendous leap, batting at the lowest branch. 
Leaves showered down on her brother as he bounded 
after her. 

Firestar and Sandstorm followed the kittypets to the 
edge of the bushes and watched them racing back to 
Twolegplace, their tails held high. 

“They’re not bad, for  kittypets,’ Sandstorm 
commented. “Cherry’s got spirit, at least.” 


Firestar suspected that the young tortoiseshell 
reminded Sandstorm of her apprentice, Sorrelpaw. 
“They’ve both got spirit,’ he responded. “It’s a pity 
they can’t be apprenticed in a proper Clan.” 

“Well, they can’t,” Sandstorm meowed. “Not unless 
we can find SkyClan. They left here a long time ago, 
by the sound of it.” 

“Except for Moony.” Firestar felt excitement 
prickling through his pelt again. “A cat who gazes at 
the full moon and talks about cats in the stars...He’s a 
Clan cat, Sandstorm; he must be!” 

Sandstorm nodded, a glow in her green eyes. “Then 
that’s our next job. We’ve got to find him.” 


“To think I complained it was too hot!” Sandstorm 
exclaimed. 

She and Firestar had finished their hunt and eaten, 
and were heading along the top of the gorge in search 
of Moony. The dawn mist had turned to a fine, cold 
drizzle, soaking the cats’ fur. The sky was heavy with 
gray clouds, and Firestar couldn’t see clearly more 
than a few fox-lengths ahead. 


“This is no good,” he meowed. “It’s just the same as 
when we were looking for the SkyClan camp. If we 
stay up here, we’ll never find the place where Moony 
is living.” 

Sandstorm sighed. “I was afraid you were going to 
say that.” 

Climbing down was even harder when the rocks 
were slippery with rain and the bottom of the gorge 
was still shrouded in mist. Firestar led the way, 
scrambling over boulders and slithermg down loose 
pebbles until they reached the narrow valley above the 
rocks where the river poured out. The path was sticky 
with mud, covering the cats’ legs and splashing up into 
their belly fur. They plodded along uncomfortably, 
peering through the rain at the sides of the gorge to 
find any trace of the old cat. 

“There’s a slit in that rock.” Sandstorm pomted with 
her tail. “Maybe it leads to a cave.” She splashed 
away from the path to investigate and splashed back 
almost at once. “No good,” she reported. “It’s not wide 
enough for my whiskers. A cat could never live in 
there.” 

Firestar wondered whether a cat could live in this 


barren place at all, but as he and Sandstorm trudged 
along he began to spot stunted bushes here and there, 
and scent faint traces of prey. Some of the ramwater 
had collected in puddles among the boulders. 

“This place would support one or two cats,’ he 
meowed. “But it’s a pretty miserable place to live, all 
the same.” 

“Especially on your own,” Sandstorm agreed. “If 
Moony is a bit weird, no cat could blame him.” 

The cats passed more slits in the gorge wall, but 
they were all too shallow or too narrow for a cat to live 
in comfortably. Firestar began to wonder how much 
farther they would have to go, or whether they had 
already missed Moony’s home. 

Gradually a breeze sprang up, wafting billows of rain 
into their faces. Firestar shivered. 

“For StarClan’s sake, lets look for shelter,” 
Sandstorm mewed. “We’ ll never find him in this.” 

Not waiting for Firestar’s agreement, she splashed 
up to another of the narrow caves and slipped inside tt. 
There was just enough room for Firestar to squeeze in 
beside her, their sodden pelts pressed together. But in 
spite of his drenched, mud-plastered fur and his sore 


paws, he felt more hopeful than he had for a long time. 
At last they had news of a real Clan cat, and sooner or 
later they had to find him. 

He drowsed uneasily and woke to feel Sandstorm’s 
tail flicking over his ear. She was standing outside the 
cave, looking down at him. “Come on,” she meowed. 
“The rain’s stopped.” 

Creeping stiffly out of the cave, Firestar looked up 
and saw that the clouds were parting. A watery sun 
shone down into the gorge. The breeze ruffled his 
damp fur, showering him with a few last drops of rain. 

“That’s better,’ he meowed. “Let’s get moving.” 

“In a moment,” Sandstorm replied. “I want a drink 
first.” 

“Haven’t you had enough water?” Firestar asked, 
as he followed her to a pool in a hollow between two 
twisted thorn trees. 

At the edge of the pool Sandstorm froze, staring 
down at the ground in front of her paws. “Firestar, 
look!” 

He bounded over. There in the newly wet mud at 
the edge of the pool were the pawprints of a cat! They 
were crisp and fresh, larger than his prints or 


Sandstorm’s. 

“They could be Moony’s!” Sandstorm exclaimed. 
“Or at least, a cat who might know where to find him. 
And they must have been made recently—since the 
rain stopped.” 

Firestar lashed his tail. If they hadn’t gone to sleep 
in the cave, they might have spotted the cat when it 
came to drink. 

“Whoever it is, they might still be close by,” he 
meowed. “You search that side of the gorge, and I'll 
look on this side.” 

He padded slowly along the base of the cliff, alert 
for any more footprints or the scent of a cat. Then 
Sandstorm let out a yowl and signaled with her tail. 
“Over here!” 

Firestar bounded across to her. Before he reached 
her he began to pick up a strong, fresh scent. “I’m 
sure that’s the same scent that was in the cave where 
we’ve been sleeping,” he meowed. 

Sandstorm nodded, tasting the air again. “It was 
stale there, but it’s the same cat. It must be Moony 
who made those prints.” 

Following the scent, Firestar reached a narrow path 


that wound behind a huge boulder. The cats could 
barely squeeze between the rock and the cliff face. On 
the other side of the boulder the path led steeply 
upward until it reached a gnarled tree clinging to the 
side of the cliff. Firestar scrabbled his way up to it, 
showers of pebbles patterng down under his paws. 
Sandstorm followed a tail-length behind. 

Drawing closer to the tree, Firestar saw that its 
roots arched out of the reddish stone, forming a den of 
hard, twisted branches. Outside was a scattering of 
bones and scraps of fur and a bundle of soiled moss. 
The cat scent was stronger still. 

“This is it,’ he panted, glancing over his shoulder at 
Sandstorm. “This must be where Moony lives.” 

As he began to climb farther up, a dark gray shape 
shot out from beneath the roots. “Get away from 
here!” he snarled. “Leave me alone! Haven’t you 
tormented me enough?” 


CHAPTER 18 


“Its all right,” Firestar meowed. “We haven’t come 
to harm you. We just want to talk.” 

Moony glared at him from huge, pale blue eyes. He 
must have once been a big, powerful cat, but now he 
was shrunken and scrawny. His gray fur was thin and 
staring, his muzzle white with age. “Well, I don’t want 
to talk to you,” he growled. 

Whirling around, he stumbled back into his den. His 
gray pelt merged into the shadows; all Firestar could 
see Clearly were his pale eyes, gleaming with a mixture 
of fear and anger. They were exactly the same color 
as the eyes of the SkyClan leader he had seen in his 
dreams. He felt so close to SkyClan, it was as if a 
single pawstep would lead him to that caveful of 
warriors. 

Slowly, with his claws sheathed, he padded up to 
within a tail-length of the den. Sandstorm came to 
stand at his shoulder. “Please,” she mewed. “There’s 
so much we want to ask you.” 

Moony’s reply was a defiant hiss. “Leave me 


alone.” 

“Is that what you really want?” Sandstorm’s voice 
was gentle. “Haven’t you been alone long enough? We 
want to help you.” 

“Go away,” growled the old cat. “I don’t need your 
help. I don’t need any other cats. This is my life now.” 

Firestar knew he could have bullied the old warrior 
into answering his questions, but Moony had already 
suffered enough at the paws of the kittypets—and 
probably any rogues or loners who came across him, 
too. Besides, he looked quite capable of giving any 
attacker a nasty scratch. Firestar wanted to earn his 
respect, not his hostility. Fighting wasn’t the answer. 

Beckoning with his tail to Sandstorm, he withdrew a 
few paces down the path. “Come on; let’s leave him 
alone,” he murmured. 

Sandstorm’s tail went up in surprise. “We’ve only 
just found him!” 

“Yes, but we’re not domg any good here. We’ll 
never force him to talk when he’s protecting his own 
den.” 

“Then what are we going to do?” Sandstorm asked. 

“The moon will be full in four sunrises,” Firestar 


explained. “We must go back to the cave and wait until 
he comes to the gorge. He might not be so defensive 
out in the open, and at the time of the Gathering he 
might be more willing to talk about his ancestors.” 

Sandstorm blinked thoughtfully. “You’re right. I’m 
sure he’d never break the Gathering truce.” 

Firestar dipped his head to the shadows beneath the 
tree roots before he turned away from Moony’s den. 
“Maybe at the full moon we’ll find out what we need 
to know,” he murmured. 


Firestar hauled himself into the cave with a mouthful 
of feathers, and carried them to where Sandstorm was 
lining their nests with bracken. “I found these on the 
cliff top,” he told her. “There was a scent of fox; I 
think it must have caught a bird.” 

“Fox?” Sandstorm gave him a worried look from her 
pale green eyes. “I hoped there weren’t any foxes 
around here.” 

“There are foxes everywhere,” Firestar meowed. 
“Anyway, the feathers should make the nests a bit 
more comfortable.” 


“We really need moss.” Sandstorm gave the 
bracken a dissatisfied prod with one paw. “Ferns alone 
aren’t nearly as good. But there doesn’t seem to be 
any moss at all around here.” 

“Why don’t we go down and search beside the 
river?” Firestar suggested. “I could do with a drink.” 

Sandstorm looked doubtful. “It’s worth a try.” 

She took the lead as the two cats headed down the 
trail to the bottom of the gorge. The heavy rain of the 
day before had passed, and the sky was blue again, 
with a scattering of puffy white clouds. Beside the 
river, puddles gleamed in hollows in the rock. 

Firestar made for a sandy slope where the river had 
scooped out a dip in the bank, and jerked back quickly 
as his paw sank deep into mud. “Mouse dung!” he 
exclaimed, shaking his paw. “Did SkyClan get their 
paws filthy every time they wanted a drink?” 

Sandstorm let out a faint purr of amusement. “If 
they weren’t as impatient as you, they could find the 
best places—tlike this,” she added, waving her tail at a 
broad, flat rock that sloped gently down into the water. 
“Even kits could drink safely from here.” 

“Yes, they could.” Firestar padded down the slanting 


rock and crouched to lap, with Sandstorm at his side. 

“We still haven’t found any moss.” Sandstorm sat 
up again, twitching droplets from her whiskers. “Let’s 
try farther downstream.” 

They hadn’t explored this stretch of the river before. 
Before they had gone many pawsteps, they had to pick 
their way around huge boulders that came between 
them and the water. Sandstorm swiped her paw across 
one of them, and examined the faint greenish smear on 
her fur. “It’s like tiny moss!” She sniffed. “But what 
good is that for lining a nest?” 

“SkyClan would have had a hard time living here 
without moss,” Firestar pointed out. “It’s not just 
important for lining nests. You need moss to carry 
water to kits and elders.” 

Sandstorm nodded. “And medicine cats use it to 
wash wounds.” 

That was one more mystery about the lost Clan, 
Firestar mused, as he and his mate padded on. Even 
more than before, he couldn’t wait for the night of the 
full moon, when Moony might be able to give them 
some answers. 

Farther downstream the river curved around a 


jutting spur of rock. Firestar clawed his way up tt, 
listening to Sandstorm spitting in annoyance as she 
scrambled after him. “I’m wearing the skin off my 
pads,” she complained. 

From the top of the rock Firestar could see the next 
stretch of water. The gorge had grown wider; there 
was a flat, pebbly foreshore that gave way to trees and 
bushes growing between the river and the cliff face. 

“This looks like a better place for prey,’ he 
meowed. “I couldn’t imagine how SkyClan managed to 
feed themselves just from—” 

“Get down!” Sandstorm interrupted, slapping him 
across the shoulders with her tail. 

Firestar flattened himself against the rock. “What is 
it?” he whispered. 

Sandstorm jerked her head toward the undergrowth 
at the edge of the river. Firestar saw the branches 
shaking; then a massive tomcat emerged, his fur a 
darker shade of ginger than Firestar’s flame-colored 
pelt. He carried a piece of fresh-kill in his jaws. 

“Sorry,” Sandstorm muttered. “I thought it might 
have been a fox.” 

“No, just another rogue.” Firestar rose to his paws. 


“Maybe we should go down and talk to him.” 

But the ginger tom was heading rapidly downstream, 
slipping along in the gap between the bushes and the 
cliff. Firestar wasn’t sure if he had even spotted them. 
Soon he was out of sight. 

“We'd never catch him,” Sandstorm meowed. “And 
if we did, he’d probably think we were trying to steal 
his prey. The cats around here aren’t exactly 
desperate to make friends.” 

She was right, Firestar thought, frustrated, gazing at 
the spot where the ginger tom had vanished. He slid 
down the rock and stalked up to the bushes, tasting the 
air for prey. The scents were richer here than at the 
top of the gorge; he could distinguish mouse, vole, and 
squirrel, but the strongest were all from birds. 

He pricked his ears at a rustling sound close by, and 
turned his head to see a blackbird pecking among the 
debris at the edge of the bushes. He dropped into the 
hunter’s crouch, but as soon as he began to creep 
forward the blackbird cocked its head, its tiny bright 
eye fixed on him. Firestar launched himself at it, paws 
extended, but the blackbird shot up, calling out in alarm, 
and winged away over his head. 


Firestar hissed, remembering the sparrow he’d lost a 
few days before when the brown rogue had 
interrupted him. Catching birds was always harder 
than catching prey on the ground. But here there 
wasn’t much choice, unless he wanted to go hungry. 

A few tail-lengths along the riverbank a thrush was 
tugging a worm out of a damp patch of earth. 
Sandstorm was already prowling toward it. Intent on 
its own prey, the thrush never noticed her; Sandstorm 
pounced, and her claws met in its neck. 

Firestar bounded up to her. “Well done! I lost mine,” 
he added ruefully. 

“Never mind, we can share.” Sandstorm patted the 
thrush toward him. “There’s plenty of prey here.” 

“Still no moss, though,” Firestar mewed, looking at 
the bare rocks beside the river. 

“Then SkyClan must have managed some other 
way,” Sandstorm pointed out sensibly. 

Firestar tried to imagine the empty riverbanks alive 
with cats, patrolling, hunting, training apprentices, living 
by the warrior code as cats in the forest had done for 
uncountable seasons. If Moony really was the last 
SkyClan warrior, what could any cat do to rebuild the 


lost Clan? 


“Full moon tonight.” Firestar emerged from the 
warriors’ cave; the dawn chill reminded him that 
greenleaf was drawing to an end. There was just 
enough light to make out the cliff at the opposite side 
of the river. A stiff breeze flattened his fur against his 
sides. “We’ve got to be ready to meet Moony.” 

Sandstorm, still curled in her nest, answered him 
with a yawn. “He won’t be here until moonhigh. Go 
back to sleep.” Her green eyes were no more than 
slits; as Firestar watched they closed completely, and 
she wrapped her tail tip over her nose. 

The nest looked tempting, but Firestar felt too 
restless to lie down again. His paws itched to be doing 
something. “Pl go and find us some fresh-kill”’ he 
meowed. 

Sandstorm’s ears twitched to show that she had 
heard. 

Luck was with Firestar; when he scrambled up to 
the cliff top he found himself nose-to-nose with a 
mouse and killed it before it had the chance to run. 


Scratching earth over it, he prowled through the 
bushes, but there was no other prey about. 

By the time he emerged on the other side of the 
thicket the sun was edging above the top of the 
Twolegplace, flooding the stretch of scrubland with 
warm light and glittering on monsters racing past the 
Twoleg nests in the distance. Firestar hadn’t ventured 
far in that direction before. Without consciously 
deciding, he found that his paws were carrying him 
toward the Twolegplace. He wasn’t trying to hunt 
anymore, just scouting this unfamiliar territory. 

Darting into the shelter of a gorse bush for cover, he 
was met by a furious hiss and a paw swiped past his 
nose, the claws missing him by less than a mouse- 
length. Firestar reared back in astonishment. A tabby 
she-cat crouched in front of him, her cream-and-brown 
neck fur bristling and her amber eyes glaring. Her 
scent told Firestar she was a rogue. 

“Keep your paws off me!” she spat. 

“T’m sorry.” Firestar dipped his head. “I didn’t see 
you there.” 

The she-cat relaxed slightly, but her look was still 
unfriendly. “Stupid furball. Just be a bit more careful 


next time.” She turned and began to stalk off, her tail 
in the air. 

“Hang on.” Firestar bounded forward and caught up 
with her. “I want to talk to you. I need to know—” 

“I don’t want to talk to you,’ the she-cat 
interrupted, sounding just like Moony. “Go away and 
leave me alone.” To show she meant it, she picked up 
speed until she was racing across the scrubby ground 
toward the Twoleg nests. 

Firestar stood looking after her, tail lashing in 
frustration. Why was every cat in this place so hostile? 
None of them seemed to care about one another. 
There wasn’t a trace of the warrior code left. Apart 
from the two kittypets, all the cats he had seen were 
rogues through and through. 

A heavy stone seemed to settle in his heart. Ever 
since he and Sandstorm found the caves, he had clung 
to the hope of finding a few SkyClan cats living 
together, troubled and defiant, but still stubbornly 
surviving and clinging to the warrior code. Now he 
realized he was wrong. SkyClan had gone, lost seasons 
before he ever came to this place. 

Why did you send me here? he wailed silently, not 


knowing if he was speaking to StarClan or to the 
SkyClan cat who had haunted his pawsteps for so 
long. 

There was no reply. 

Turning back toward the gorge, Firestar spotted the 
two kittypets, Boris and Cherry, sitting side by side on 
a Twoleg fence. He thought they were watching him. 
He couldn’t see any point in going to speak to them; 
they wouldn’t be pleased to see him after the 
encounter on the cliff top. He just hoped that they had 
learned their lesson, and would stay away from Moony 
in the future. 

Moony was their last hope of discovering anything 
about the lost Clan. He and Sandstorm would do their 
best to persuade him to tell them what he knew that 
night. Then, once they found out what had happened to 
SkyClan, they could go home. No cat could do more; 
SkyClan were lost forever. 


Firestar leaped across the cleft and landed on the 
jutting rock. During the day the last wisps of cloud had 
disappeared and now Silverpelt blazed down from a 


clear sky and glittered on the river far below. The 
moon, still low in the sky, covered everything with a 
silver sheen and cast Firestar’s shadow huge behind 
him. 

“If Moony sees us here, he might not come,” 
Sandstorm meowed, leaping over the gap to stand 
beside Firestar. “Do you think we should hide?” 

“Good idea.” Firestar pointed with his tail toward a 
heap of boulders where the flat rock met the cliff face. 
“Over there.” 

He padded across and slid into deep shadow; 
Sandstorm squeezed in beside him. Through a gap 
between two of the boulders they could see most of 
the surface of the jutting rock and the last section of 
the stony trail that led up from the gorge. Now there 
was nothing to do but wait. 

The moon crawled higher in the sky and the moon 
shadows grew shorter. Firestar felt his legs protest 
with cramps; he would have given anything for a good 
stretch. 

At last he heard the soft pad of paws, and the old 
gray cat rounded a bend in the trail. His movements 
were stiff and painful, his belly sagged toward the 


ground, and his tail dragged in the dust. Yet he held his 
head high, and the moonlight turned his pelt to dazzling 
silver. 

“He'll never manage the leap!” Sandstorm 
whispered in Firestar’s ear. 

Moony paused a few tail-lengths from the end of the 
trail and raised his eyes to the stars. Then he started 
forward again, somehow managing to pick up speed, 
and launched himself in a flying leap over the rift. His 
forepaws struck the rock, and for a few heartbeats he 
hung over the gap, paws scrabbling to pull himself up. 

Firestar felt Sandstorm’s muscles tense, as if she 
were about to dash out and help him. But before she 
could move the old cat gave a massive heave and 
hauled himself to safety. He stood still for a moment, 
panting, then padded forward and sat down in the 
middle of the rock. Lifting his head, he turned his face 
to the moon; he looked like a cat made of shadows, 
outlined against the shining white circle in the sky. 

Moony began to speak very softly; Firestar and 
Sandstorm crept forward so that they could hear what 
he was saying. 

“Spirits of cats who have gone before,’ Moony 


mewed, “I am sorry I am the only cat left of what was 
once a noble Clan. I will try to preserve the way of the 
warrior until my last breath. But I fear that when I die 
it will die with me, and the memory of SkyClan will be 
lost forever.” 

He looked up, as if he were listening for a reply that 
never came. At last he heaved a long sigh, letting his 
head droop, and sat motionless while the moon began 
to slide down the sky. 

Firestar could not interrupt his silent vigil. For how 
many seasons had Moony lived alone, surrounded by 
cats who tormented him? How long had he tried to live 
by the warrior code, and kept alive the memory of 
SkyClan? 

At last the moon began to dip below the Twoleg 
nests on the horizon. Firestar was about to step 
forward when the old cat turned his head. His eyes 
glowed like moons. “I know you're there,’ he 
meowed. “I’m not so old that I can’t pick up scent.” 

Firestar’s pelt prickled; he felt as awkward as an 
apprentice caught eavesdropping. He and Sandstorm 
emerged from behind the boulders and padded forward 
to stand in front of the old cat. Firestar dipped his 


head. “Greetings, Moony. We—” 

“That is not my name,” the old cat interrupted, 
standing up so that his shadow slid over the rock and 
vanished into the bottom of the gorge. “My name is 


Sky. 33 


CHAPTER 19 


Firestar 5 heart thudded so hard it felt as if it would 
burst out of his chest. He could hardly breathe, and the 
words he wanted to say tumbled out in a rush. “Were 
you once a warrior of SkyClan?” 

“I was not,” the old cat replied. Before Firestar had 
time to feel disappointed, Sky went on. “My mother’s 
mother was born into the Clan. By the time I was born, 
SkyClan was no more, but my mother taught me the 
ways of a Clan warrior.” 

Firestar exchanged an excited glance with 
Sandstorm. Her eyes were stretched wide. “We were 
right!” she mewed to Firestar. “This was SkyClan’s 
home.” 

“Go on, Sky.” Firestar took a step toward the old 
cat. “Tellus more about SkyClan.” 

To Firestar’s dismay, Sky recoiled. “Why do you 
want to know?” he demanded. “What is it to you?” 

“We want to help you,” Firestar explained. “We 
come from the forest where SkyClan once lived.” 

“We’re cats of ThunderClan,” Sandstorm added. 


“My name is Sandstorm, and this is Firestar, the Clan 
leader.” 

The old cat’s ears flattened, as if his ingrained 
mistrust were fighting with the respect that a true 
warrior would show for a Clan leader. Firestar realized 
that he must be the first leader Sky had ever met. 

“I had a dream.” Firestar sat down, his tail wrapped 
over his paws to make him look as unthreatening as 
possible. After a moment’s hesitation Sky sat down 
too, and listened while Firestar told him everything that 
had happened since his very first vision of the gray- 
and-white cat in the ravine outside the ThunderClan 
camp. “I’m sure he was the leader of SkyClan when it 
was driven out of the forest,” Firestar finished. “He 
begged me to come and find his lost Clan.” 

“And you came all this way because of a dream?” 
Sky asked. 

“I came because I had to.” 

Sky sprang to his paws again, the thin gray fur on 
his shoulders bristling. “Do you think it’s as easy as 
that?” he spat. “Do you think the wrongs of the past 
can be forgiven so easily?” 

“What do you mean?” Sandstorm mewed, 


bewildered. 

“It was thanks to the four Clans left in the forest 
that my ancestors were driven out of their home. 
When they came here, they thought they would be 
safe, but later they found it was as terrible as the 
territory they had left. Your ancestors destroyed my 
Clan!” 

For a few heartbeats Firestar was afraid that the old 
cat would leap on him with teeth and claws bared. He 
braced himself, knowing that he could never raise a 
paw against this noble old warrior. 

Then Sky drew in a deep breath and sat down 
again. “This is a time of truce. I will not seek revenge 
while the moon is full for the wrongs done to my 
ancestors.” 

Firestar was beginning to feel alarmed. What was 
wrong with the gorge that meant SkyClan hadn’t been 
able to stay there? With some prey at least, freshwater 
and shelter, and little threat from Twolegs, the cliffside 
camp seemed to be a perfect refuge for cats. 

“What happened?” he prompted. “Why did they all 
leave?” 

Sky turned his head away. A low keening came 


from his throat, as if he were mourning for all the cats 
of SkyClan, driven out, lost, or dead. 

Sandstorm padded forward and gently touched his 
shoulder with her tail. “Tell us why you’re called Sky,” 
she urged. 

The old cat looked up at her. “My mother gave me 
that name,” he rasped, “so that I would never forget 
my ancestors. And I never have. That’s why I come 
here every full moon.” 

“That must get very lonely sometimes,” Sandstorm 
murmured. 

Sighing, Sky looked up at the glitter of Silverpelt. “T 
don’t know if my warrior ancestors listen to me, but I 
will keep the way of the warrior alive until my last 
breath.” 

“We know you stay in one of the caves on the night 
of the full moon,” Firestar began hesitantly, not wanting 
to upset the old cat any more. “Sandstorm and I have 
been sleeping there. I hope you don’t mind.” 

Sky let out a disgusted snort. “Then you’ve met 
those two kittypets. That’s how you knew the stupid 
name they gave me.” 

“Yes, we’ve seen them,” meowed Sandstorm. 


“They live in a Twoleg nest and eat pap!” the old 
cat exclaimed. “And they say Z’m mad!” 

Firestar caught a glance from Sandstorm, as if she 
were trying to warn him not to mention that he had 
once been a kittypet. He certainly didn’t intend to; 
Sky’s opinion of him was low enough without that. 

“We scared them away,’ he told Sky. “You 
shouldn’t have any more trouble with them.” 

Sky twitched his ears; for a moment Firestar thought 
he looked almost disappointed. “Did you notice 
anything. ..unusual about them?” he asked. 

Firestar cast his mind back to the encounter with the 
kittypets. He couldn’t remember anything distinctive, 
except for their rudeness, and he didn’t think Sky 
meant that. Then he pictured the two of them as they 
ran back to the Twoleg nest. “Cherry jumped into a 
tree,” he recalled. “Is that what you mean?” 

Sky nodded. “I think those two kittypets are 
descended from SkyClan cats.” 

Sandstorm’s ears pricked with surprise. “Those two 
mouse-brains?” 

“When the Clan was forced out of the gorge,” Sky 
explained, “most of the cats, including my mother’s 


mother, became rogues or loners. But some of them, 
those who were too old or too young to hunt, went to 
live with Twolegs.” He stared across the scrubland to 
where the harsh orange lights of the Twolegplace 
stained the sky. “Strange...,” he murmured. “So many 
of those cats must share my blood, yet none of them 
knows who I really am.” He bowed his head again. 

“What happened?” Firestar asked. “Why did 
SkyClan have to leave the gorge?” 

The old cat did not reply; Firestar wasn’t even sure 
if he had heard the question. 

“You look tired,’ Sandstorm mewed. “Would you 
like me to hunt for you?” 

Sky tensed; Firestar was afraid that Sandstorm’s 
offer had offended him. Then he looked up, blinking 
gratefully. “Thank you. It’s been a long night.” 

Immediately Sandstorm leaped across the rift and 
disappeared down the trail into the gorge. Firestar 
followed more slowly with Sky. He was ready to help 
the old cat cross the gap, but leaping down from the 
rock was easier than leaping up, and Sky landed with 
all four paws firmly on the trail. Firestar let him take 
the lead to the cave. 


As he padded behind, Firestar realized that Sky 
reminded him of Yellowfang. He had the same proud 
reserve as the former medicine cat; he was clearly 
uncomfortable and prickly around other cats, yet he 
shared Yellowfang’s strength and her deep 
commitment to her Clan. Sky had all the qualities of a 
true warrior: courage, faith, and loyalty to his Clan. Yet 
everything he was had been based only on tales told to 
him by his mother. SkyClan from his nose to the tip of 
his tail, he had never been part of a real Clan. 

Sky clambered up to the mouth of the cave and 
paused, whiskers twitching. Firestar was nervous that 
he would feel insulted that he and Sandstorm had 
brought in bedding, when he must have slept on the 
bare sandy floor. The old cat let out a faint snort, then 
padded over to one of the hollows and curled up 
without any comment in a nest of ferns and feathers. 

He was barely settled when Sandstorm appeared in 
the entrance, a mouse dangling from her jaws. She 
crossed the cave to Sky and laid it down in front of 
him. 

The gray cat reached out one paw and prodded tt. 
“A bit skinny, isn’t it?” Before Sandstorm could defend 


her catch, he dragged the mouse closer and began 
devouring it in rapid gulps. 

Sandstorm glanced at Firestar, her eyes glimmering 
with laughter, and mouthed, Yellowfang! 

Sky finished off the last scrap of mouse, swiped his 
tongue around his jaws, and let out a long sigh. Then 
he curled up again and was asleep almost at once, his 
snores echoing around the cave. 

Firestar and Sandstorm squashed up together in the 
remaining lined nest. Sleep refused to come to Firestar. 
Bracken pricked against his fur, and Sky’s snoring 
echoed off the sandy walls. Sandstorm was restless 
too, shifting among the bedding. 

But that wasn’t what kept Firestar awake. His mind 
buzzed with troubled thoughts. He wondered whether 
the SkyClan ancestor was watching him, or his former 
leader Bluestar. Neither of them had sent him any 
signs since he came to the gorge. Could the SkyClan 
leader be trapped somewhere else, unable to watch 
over his former home? 

Eventually he slipped into a disturbed sleep. Sunlight 
streaming into the cave woke him the next morning. 
Sandstorm was already sitting up beside him, grooming 


herself, while Sky snored in his nest opposite. 

“Are you ready to go and hunt?” Sandstorm asked. 

Firestar heaved himself out of the nest with a huge 
yawn. His legs were stiff but he knew he wouldn’t 
sleep again. He gave himself a brisk shake to dislodge 
scraps of bracken from his fur. “Lead on,” he mewed. 

By the time they reached the riverside, he was 
beginning to feel better. He waded through the 
shallows for a few paces, enjoying the sensation of 
cool water on pads that were still sore from scrambling 
up and down the cliff. Then he and Sandstorm headed 
downstream, to where the trees and undergrowth 
sheltered prey. 

It was good to hunt side by side like this, Firestar 
thought, without having to worry about organizing 
patrols or keeping a watch on the borders. The forest 
suddenly seemed very far away. Could I stay here 
forever? he wondered. Could I live without a Clan? 

Then he heard Sandstorm let out a faint sigh. She 
was gazing down at an eddy in the river, where the 
current had scoured out a hollow under the bank 
beneath a hazel bush. It looked almost exactly like the 
place where ThunderClan crossed the stream on the 


way to Fourtrees. 

Firestar’s thoughts went winging back to his own 
territory. How had ThunderClan fared at the Gathering 
the night before, and what did the other Clans think 
when they heard he had left the forest? 

The idea that he might choose not to go back 
seemed as remote as the stars. He was ThunderClan’s 
leader; the forest was where he belonged. Except for 
Sky, all the SkyClan cats were long gone. There was 
nothing more that Firestar could do for them. Once he 
had listened to the rest of Sky’s story, and found out 
why the SkyClan cats had left the caves, it would be 
time to go home. 

He and Sandstorm hunted and carried their fresh-kill 
back to the cave. But when he reached the entrance, 
Firestar stopped in surprise. The hollow in the cave 
floor was empty. Sky had gone. 


CHAPTER 20 


Firestar flattened his ears in disappointment. “I 
thought he would at least stay until we got back,” he 
meowed. “There’s so much more I wanted to ask 
him.” 

Sandstorm dropped her prey beside Firestar’s and 
padded across to the hollow where Sky had slept. 
“He’s used to being alone,” she pointed out. “I suppose 
he just didn’t feel comfortable around other cats.” 

Firestar twitched his tail tip, irritation raising the fur 
on his shoulders. “Now we’ll have to trek all the way 
up the gorge again. I don’t want to leave without 
speaking to him. I have to know more about SkyClan, 
especially why they left these caves.” 

Sandstorm’s green eyes glinted at him. Firestar was 
afraid she would think he was becoming obsessed with 
SkyClan, particularly when there was no Clan to 
restore, nothing but memories and sand. 

“TI feel as if I’ve failed the cat in my dreams if I 
don’t find out what destroyed the Clan in the end,” he 
defended himself. “It wasn’t just leaving the forest. 


They reached this place, and they could have thrived 
here, especially with their special ability to leap. So 
what happened next? Why did they go?” He shook his 
head in frustration. “I have to know,” he repeated. 

“It’s okay.” Sandstorm pressed her muzzle against 
his. “I understand. And if—” 

A panting, scraping noise from outside the cave 
interrupted her. Sky clambered into the cave; a huge 
bundle of moss was clamped in his jaws. 

Relief flooded over Firestar. “You’re still here!” 

“And you found moss!” Sandstorm added. 

The old cat dropped his burden and looked at her as 
if he thought she was mad. “You do use moss for 
bedding, don’t you? I haven’t dragged this stuff all the 
way up from the river for nothing?” He gave his nest 
of ferns a scathing look. “Maybe you enjoy being 
pricked all night.” 

“Yes, we use moss,” Firestar meowed, “but we 
couldn’t find any.” 

Sky snorted. “TIl show you later.” He pushed the 
bundle of moss toward them with one paw. “There, put 
it in your nests. I don’t need any; I won’t be staying 
another night.” 


“I wish you would.” Sandstorm brushed her muzzle 
against Sky’s shoulder; the old cat tensed, but didn’t 
protest. “There’s so much you can tell us.” 

Sky hesitated, then flicked his ears. “I’m not 
welcome here. Those kittypets...I’ve been driven out, 
just like my ancestors.” 

“I’m sorry—” Firestar began. 

“Don’t feel sorry for me!” Sky’s blue eyes flashed. 
‘Tve got a perfectly good den of my own. I don’t need 
anything.” 

His voice ached with a loneliness that contradicted 
his words. 

Sandstorm padded across to the small fresh-kill pile 
she and Firestar had made, and picked out a plump 
vole, which she carried over to Sky. “Please eat,” she 
mewed. 

The old cat’s eyes glinted with surprise, but he 
crouched down to devour the vole. Sandstorm fetched 
a starling for herself, while Firestar used Sky’s moss to 
line their nests. It was paler than the moss that grew in 
the forest, and he was still puzzled about where Sky 
had found it. There hadn’t been time for the old cat to 
go far. 


By the time Firestar settled down to eat, Sky was 
swallowing the last scraps of fresh-kill. “Thanks.” He 
grunted. “I’ve eaten worse.” 

Sandstorm dipped her head. “Please, will you show 
us where you found the moss?” she asked. “And 
maybe some of the other places you remember from 
when you were young?” 

Firestar gave Sandstorm an appreciative glance. It 
was a good idea to nudge the old cat along the path of 
his memories; he must want to share them, after being 
so long alone. 

Sky rose to his paws and padded over to the cave 
entrance. His gaze fell on the scratch marks on the 
stone trunk; Firestar thought he flinched before he 
turned to look out at the hazy sky. “I'll show you the 
moss,” he meowed, “and the other places my mother 
used to take me. But we should go now. It’s going to 
be a hot day, so we’ll need to be back before sunhigh.” 

Firestar gulped down the rest of his sparrow and 
stood up. “I’m ready,” he mewed to Sky. “Lead the 
way.” 

The elderly cat took the stony trail that led to the 
bottom of the gorge, then leaped up to the top of the 


pile of boulders where the river appeared. His 
movements were stiff, but Firestar was impressed by 
how agile he was, in spite of his age. Sky’s flanks 
were heaving with effort by the time he reached the 
top, but as he turned back to watch Firestar and 
Sandstorm scrambling up after him, Firestar thought he 
could detect a hint of amusement in his eyes. 

“This was called the Rockpile,” he announced once 
Firestar and Sandstorm were standing beside him, 
panting. “The SkyClan leader stood up here when he 
wanted to call a Clan meeting. The rest of the Clan 
gathered around the pool.” He flicked his tail toward 
the jutting rock high overhead, behind them. “You 
already know the Skyrock; that’s where the Clan 
gathered at the full moon.” 

“Why did SkyClan hold Gatherings when there 
weren’t any other Clans?” Firestar asked. 

The old cat’s eyes clouded. “Because that is the 
way of the warrior. The Clan would gather there to be 
closer to the stars.” He turned away from the jutting 
rock. “Up there were the dens,” he went on, pointing 
to the caves with his tail. “The warriors used the one 
where we’ve been sleeping. Below that was the 


elders’ den, and—” 

“Oh, we thought the lowest den would be where the 
elders lived,” Sandstorm interrupted. “Because—” She 
broke off, giving her chest fur a few quick licks to 
cover her embarrassment. 

“Because old cats are too stiff to climb?” Sky 
growled, though Firestar was sure that his eyes were 
warm. “No—SkyClan cats never lost the power to 
jump. That lowest den was the medicine cat’s, close to 
the water and where the herbs grow.” 

He went on to point out the nursery—which was the 
cave with the tiny claw marks Firestar and Sandstorm 
had picked out—the apprentices’ den, and the Clan 
leader’s, a little way away from the others, next to the 
trail that led up to the Skyrock. 

“Did the river ever flood?” Sandstorm asked. 

“Yes, but never as high as the warriors’ cave,” Sky 
replied. “The whole Clan used to shelter there in the 
worst storms, so my mother said.” 

He gazed up at the caves for a heartbeat longer, as 
if he were imagining the trails busy with cats. Then he 
gave himself a brisk shake. “Come on. I’ll show you 
the moss.” 


He jumped down from the highest boulder and 
picked his way down the pile on the opposite side of 
the river. Firestar wondered where he was going. They 
were uncomfortably near the black water where it 
appeared from among the rocks; did Sky expect them 
to swim? 

Instead, the old cat veered around the lowest 
boulder and vanished. Firestar blinked. Where had he 
gone? Then he spotted a narrow ledge leading into the 
cave just above the level of the blue-green water. 

A voice came from the darkness. “Are you coming 
or not?” 

Firestar swallowed, exchanging a glance with 
Sandstorm. His mate shrugged. “We can’t not,” she 
mewed. 

Carefully setting down his paws in a straight Ine, 
Firestar ventured onto the ledge. The rock was slick 
with water, and his claws skidded when he tried to 
cling to it. The river lapped less than a tail-length below 
his paws. “I must be mouse-brained!” he muttered. 

To his relief, after a while the ledge grew wider and 
opened out into a shallow cave. The river slid silently 
out of the shadows ahead and past them to the cave 


entrance, now a ragged gap of light behind them. 

Sky was standing at the edge of the shadows. Pale 
dappled light shone on his gray fur. “All the moss you 
could want,” he announced, sweeping his tail around. 

Firestar stared in amazement. Behind the old cat, 
the walls of the cave were covered with thick hanging 
clumps of moss. But what really astonished Firestar 
was the eerie glow that came from it. 

“Shining moss!” Sandstorm gasped. 

“It’s perfectly safe,’ Sky assured her. “You can use 
it for carrying water as well as for bedding. No cat 
knows why it glows like that. This was called the 
Shining Cave,” he went on. “No cat lived here, but the 
SkyClan medicine cats came to share tongues with 
their ancestors at each quarter moon.” 

Firestar felt humbled that Sky had brought them to 
such an important place. He was glad, too, that he and 
Sandstorm hadn’t discovered it on their own. They 
might have taken the moss without realizing how 
special the cave was. 

“Thank you for showing us,” he murmured to Sky. 
The softly spoken words seemed to echo around the 
cave like a whole Clan of voices answering, and 


Firestar was relieved when the old cat led the way 
back to the sunlight. 

Once they were all on the bank again, opposite the 
cave dens, Sky led them downstream until they 
reached the trees. Firestar noticed that Sky’s stiffness 
seemed to be wearing off; he moved like a younger 
cat, as if exploring his ancestors’ territory with visitors 
had given him another life. His tail held erect, he 
followed a twisting path through the undergrowth, 
farther than Firestar and Sandstorm had explored, until 
he reached a fallen tree that bridged the stream. Most 
of its branches had rotted away, and its trunk had been 
scoured to a silvery gray. 

Sky leaped onto it and trotted confidently across to 
the far bank. Firestar and Sandstorm followed more 
cautiously, Firestar glancing down at the river bubbling 
underneath and digging his claws in as he crossed. 

“This was the edge of SkyClan’s territory,’ Sky 
announced as they joined him on the bank. “And that’s 
where I was born.” 

He waved his tail toward a small cave at the bottom 
of the cliff, its entrance sheltered by a straggling bush. 
The sandy floor was littered with sharp little stones; 


Firestar tried to imagine what it would be like with a 
warm nest of moss and bracken, and a mother cat 
caring for her kits. 

“What was your mother’s name?” Sandstorm 
asked. 

“Lowbranch,” the old cat replied. “I never knew my 
father—another rogue, I suppose. I had a littermate 
called Twig.” 

“Does he still live here too?” 

Sky stiffened, glaring briefly at Sandstorm. Instead 
of answering, he muttered, “This way,’ and swung 
around to pad off upstream. 

“Sorry,” Sandstorm whispered to Firestar. “I’ve 
obviously upset him. I wasn’t trying to be nosy.” 

“I know.” Firestar touched her ear with his muzzle. 
“T suppose Twig must be dead.” 

Instead of returning to the caves, Sky began to climb 
the cliff again. This time there were no trails to follow; 
Firestar and Sandstorm had a hard scramble over 
tumbled rocks and along narrow ledges before they 
reached the top, panting and limping on paws scraped 
by sharp stones. 

Sky was waiting for them, his tail tip twitching 


impatiently. His pale blue gaze raked across them, but 
he said nothing, only turned to lead the way through the 
strip of bushes and into the scrubland. Firestar and 
Sandstorm plunged into the undergrowth after him, and 
caught up to him a few tail-lengths into the open. 

“Are we still in SkyClan territory?” Firestar panted. 

Sky angled his ears toward a tree stump that poked 
up out of a bramble thicket. “That marks the border. 
My mother said her mother remembered when it was 
a tree. And that thicket is where I caught my first 
mouse.” His voice grew softer and he paused, as if he 
were looking back through long seasons to the young 
cat he had once been. Then a gleam of amusement 
appeared in his eyes. “Pricklenose was impressed,” he 
added. “I never told her that the bramble thorns slowed 
the mouse down. It was an easy kill.” 

“Pricklenose? Who—” Sandstorm broke off, in case 
this was another painful question. “Didn’t Lowbranch 
teach you to hunt?” 

“Pricklenose was my mother’s friend. It was the 
custom for a mother cat to give her kits to another to 
be trained. Pricklenose trained me and Twig, and my 
mother took her kits.” 


Firestar’s ears pricked. “Why did they do that?” 

Sky shrugged. “I don’t know. It was the custom. 
Maybe they thought that a mother would be too soft on 
her own kits, or that she would be tempted to hunt for 
them instead of teaching them to do it for themselves.” 

Firestar exchanged a glance with Sandstorm. “It’s 
as if the mother cats were mentors,” he murmured. 
“They must have remembered something of the way 
warriors were trained when the cats still lived in 
SkyClan.” 

“Their names are a bit like Clan names, too,” 
Sandstorm responded. “But somehow they don’t sound 
quite right.” 

“Do the rogue she-cats still train one another’s 
kits?” Firestar asked Sky, turning back to the old cat. 

‘Tve no idea.” Sky snorted. “I have nothing to do 
with the cats around here.” 

He set off again. Firestar followed, battling 
frustration that all these echoes of Clan life were 
nothing more than that—echoes without meaning, if 
there were no SkyClan cats left. 

“This is a waste of time,” he whispered to 
Sandstorm. “It’s interesting, but we’re not getting 


anywhere. We might as well go home.” 

Sandstorm’s green gaze was calm. “Wait. All sorts 
of things could happen yet.” 

Firestar stared at her. Before he could ask her what 
she meant, Sky interrupted to show them a dark hole 
amid the roots of a gorse bush. 

“That used to be a fox’s den,” he meowed. His gaze 
grew somber. “Two kits were killed there once, my 
mother said.” 

Firestar tasted the air, but there was no fox scent 
there now. 

“It’s close to Twolegplace,” Sandstorm commented, 
gazing toward the fences of the Twoleg nests. 

“The nests used to be farther off, but then the 
Twolegs built more,” Sky told her. His tail lashed. “I 
can remember that happening when I was a kit. Huge 
monsters tearing up the ground, frightening off the prey 
with their noise.” 

Firestar shivered. He was used to monsters racing 
along Thunderpaths; he couldn’t imagine what it would 
be like if they crashed their way into a Clan’s territory, 
tearing up trees and destroying the camp.... 

“Is that why SkyClan left the gorge?” he asked. 


Sky narrowed his eyes. “No. Weren’t you listening? 
SkyClan was already scattered when the monsters 
came.” 

“Then why—” 

Not waiting for Firestar to finish his question, Sky 
swung around and led them along the Twoleg fences. 
Firestar’s pelt began to bristle at the thought of being 
so close to Twolegs; he could see that Sandstorm was 
uneasy too. 

“There are a lot of cats here,” he remarked; the 
scents were almost overwhelming. 

Sky gave a grunt of contempt. “Kittypets! What 
good are they? They can’t even hunt.” 

Firestar could distinguish the scents of Cherry and 
Boris, but there was no sign of the two young cats. He 
felt sorry; he wanted them to meet Sky and treat him 
with respect from now on, especially if Sky was right 
and the kittypets were his distant kin. 

“A dog used to live in that nest,’ Sky meowed, 
waving his tail at the closest fence. “Every cat was 
scared of it, its bark was so fierce!” A hint of 
amusement crept into his voice. “One day Twig dared 
me to climb up on the fence and look at it. And do you 


know, the dog was no bigger than me! I snarled at tt, 
and it went yelping back into its nest.” 

Sandstorm let out a mrrow of laughter. “I wish I’d 
seen that!” 

“Now, in this nest,’ Sky went on, leading them 
farther along the row, “the Twolegs were friendly. 
They used to leave out food.” All the amusement 
vanished from his eyes and voice; a deep sadness 
swept over him, like the shadow of a cloud on a sunny 
day. 

“What happened here?” Sandstorm asked softly. 

“Twig ate the food and decided it was easier than 
hunting.” Sky’s voice rasped in his throat. “He went to 
live with the Twolegs. I never saw him again.” 

Sandstorm touched her tail to his shoulder, while 
Firestar remembered how his kin Cloudtail, back in the 
forest, had gone back to living the life of a kittypet, 
only to discover that it wasn’t as good as life in the 
forest. It must have been hard for Sky to watch his kin 
scattering, just as his ancestors had done. 

Eventually they came to the end of the Twoleg 
fences. Now they walked alongside a shiny mesh like 
silver cobweb that Firestar had seen before in 


Twolegplaces. 

“We can go back now,” Sky announced, stopping 
abruptly. 

Firestar was surprised. The sky was still hazy and 
the day was not too hot to carry on. “Are we far out of 
SkyClan territory?” he asked. 

“Far enough,” Sky growled. His legs were stiff, his 
ears pricked, and his neck fur bristling. His pale blue 
eyes darted swift glances from side to side. 

Firestar looked around. Beyond the silver mesh was 
a broad expanse of white stone, cracked and split with 
weeds. It surrounded a huge Twoleg nest that 
reminded Firestar of the barn where Barley and 
Ravenpaw lived. But this barn was much bigger, with a 
shining silver roof and gaping holes in the sides. It 
didn’t look as if any Twolegs lived here; all that 
Firestar could smell was Twoleg rubbish, crow-food, 
and rats. A ShadowClan cat might be happy to hunt 
there, but Firestar didn’t want to set one paw inside the 
fence. 

“Okay, let’s go,” he meowed. 

Sky’s relief was obvious, his neck fur lying flat again 
as he began to lead the way back to the gorge. Firestar 


didn’t want to ask him what had disturbed him so 
deeply, and the old cat didn’t offer to explain. 

As they drew closer to the cliff top, Sky slackened 
his pace. Firestar guessed he was walking the paths of 
memory, lost among the shadows of his scattered kin 
and Clan. He slowed down too, letting the old cat draw 
ahead; Sandstorm kept pace with Firestar. 

“He’s so lonely and sad. I wish we could help him,” 
she murmured. 

“So do I,’ mewed Firestar, “but what can we do? 
He spends too much time caught up in his ancestors’ 
past, like a fly in a cobweb, but those days will never 
come again.” 

Sandstorm halted, her green eyes sparking. “Why 
won’t they? We’ve proved that this is a place where 
cats can live. And there are plenty of cats around— 
kittypets and loners—to build up the Clan again. Some 
of them even have SkyClan blood.” 

Firestar stared at her. “And who’s going to tell the 
kittypets and loners that they have to come here and 
live in caves? A Clan isn’t just cats, Sandstorm. A Clan 
belongs together and lives by the warrior code.” 

“Then you’re just giving up?” Sandstorm drew her 


lips back in the beginning of a snarl. 

“What else can I do? SkyClan lived here once, but 
then something terrible happened—something so 
terrible that Sky won’t even talk about it—and they 
scattered. They’re gone. I would stay if I thought I 
could help, but I can’t. There’s nothing to work with.” 

His voice shook, but he couldn’t see any other way. 
All that was left of the once-proud Clan was one old 
cat, clinging to the fading echoes of Clan life. It wasn’t 
enough. SkyClan was lost forever. 


The haze had cleared away and the sun beat down 
from a deep blue sky. Firestar was thankful for the 
shade of the warriors’ cave when he and Sandstorm 
joined Sky there. The old warrior was crouched in the 
entrance, his paws tucked under him, his gaze fixed on 
the cliffs opposite. 

Firestar dipped his head. “Thank you for showing us 
the territory. We’ll rest until it starts to get cooler, and 
then we’ ll have to leave.” 

Sky rose to his paws and looked from Firestar to 
Sandstorm and back again, his eyes narrowed. 


Suddenly he seemed to have grown taller and his gaze 
was sharper. He seemed less like a lonely elder and 
more like a true Clan warrior. 

“Leave?” he echoed. “What do you mean? What I 
want to know is, will you do it?” 

Firestar stared at him, bewildered, while Sandstorm, 
who clearly understood more, let out a small mew of 
satisfaction. 

“Do what?” Firestar asked. “Our journey is over. 
We’ve found the place where SkyClan used to live, but 
the Clan is gone.” 

“Thats not why you were sent here,” Sky spat. 
“You told me that a SkyClan ancestor visited you in 
your dreams. He must have known his Clan was long 
gone, forced out of the gorge by something even more 
terrible than their reason for leaving the forest. Yet still 
he asked you to come.” 

Firestar remembered his vision of the SkyClan 
leader in Smudge’s garden. The cat had told him that it 
was his destiny to restore SkyClan. But then, Firestar 
had imagined that he would find at least the remnants 
of a Clan surviving in their new home. Not one old 
warrior, surrounded by rogues and kittypets who had 


never heard of the warrior code. 
“Oh, no,” he meowed. “You can’t ask me to—” 
“You must right the wrongs your Clan’s ancestors 
did all those seasons ago,” Sky insisted. His pale gaze 
burned into Firestar’s eyes like sunlight on water. “You 
must rebuild SkyClan.” 


CHAPTER 21 


“I know it seems impossible, ” Sky continued, “but I 
know too that you have the strength to do this. Have 
faith in yourself, Firestar. We will meet again soon.” 

With great dignity he dipped his head and padded 
down the stony trail, away from the warriors’ cave. 

“Well?” Sandstorm prompted softly. “Are you going 
to follow him and tell him you can’t do it? Or just 
leave, and let him discover for himself that all his hopes 
have come to nothing?” 

Firestar shook his head helplessly. The idea of 
rebuilding SkyClan was so huge that he couldn’t even 
think about it. “I’m going hunting,” he announced. “I’m 
sorry, Sandstorm. I just need to be alone for a while.” 

Sandstorm pressed her muzzle against his; her eyes 
glowed with her love for him. “I understand.” 

Not wanting to catch up to Sky, Firestar headed in 
the opposite direction, downstream toward the trees 
near the old boundary of SkyClan territory. His mind 
was whirling. He was leader of ThunderClan; that 
was where he belonged. Yet Sky was asking him to 


take responsibility for another Clan as well. Surely it 
couldn’t be the will of StarClan for one cat to lead two 
Clans, especially when their territories were nearly a 
moon’s journey apart? 

He remembered how Tigerstar had made himself 
leader of ShadowClan and RiverClan, and tried to take 
over the other two Clans as well. His bloodthirsty 
ambitions would be remembered in the forest for many 
seasons. 

“T won’t be another Tigerstar.” Firestar spoke aloud, 
halting by the edge of the river. “My loyalty is to 
ThunderClan.” But was he right? Should he be loyal to 
the warrior code, rather than to any individual Clan? 

Trying to shrug off the questions, he pressed on 
down the riverbank. Even though the sun was sliding 
down the sky, the sand was still hot against his pads, 
and the scrubby bushes by the cliff face cast very little 
shade. He longed for the cool, damp glades of the 
forest, the thick canopy of leaves, and the small 
rustlings of prey in the undergrowth. He had stayed 
here long enough that his paws were hardening from 
constant running on sand and stone, and he was 
learning how to track prey through the scanty cover 


that was all the gorge had to offer. 

But this isn t my home, he thought. It never will be. 

He clambered over the rock spur, relieved at the 
sight of the thicker shrubbery beyond. Slithering down 
the other side, he caught a glimpse of movement and 
spotted the dark ginger tomcat he had seen before. 

“Hey!” he called out. “Wait up!” 

The ginger tom cast a glance over his shoulder, but 
he didn’t stop. Instead, he pushed his way deeper into 
the undergrowth; Firestar lost sight of him, and didn’t 
know whether to be glad or sorry. 

He picked his way across the pebbles, heading for 
the nearest clump of bushes, his ears pricked and his 
jaws open to sense the first traces of prey. Then he 
paused, puzzled. There was a scent here he couldn’t 
identify: prey, but so thickly covered by the tang of 
crushed leaves that he couldn’t be sure what creature 
it came from. His fur prickled with the sensation that 
he was being watched. 

Trying to shake off the feeling, Firestar slid into the 
ground cover, brushing through clumps of fern and 
seeding grasses until he reached the shadow of the 
bushes. His conviction that he was being watched 


grew stronger still. Icy claws raked his spine as he 
pictured a cold, malevolent gaze fixed on him. 
Something was lurking in the thicket that didn’t 
welcome cats. 

“Who’s there?” Firestar hissed. He spun around, 
disturbing a thrush that shot up into the nearest tree. 
Disgusted, he realized that its loud alarm call would 
have alerted all the prey in the gorge. 

He crept under a low growing thornbush and 
crouched there. Nothing moved; he could see nothing 
that might explain the evil force that he felt so strongly. 
His heart thudded, and he dug his claws into the 
ground as he braced himself to meet an attack. 

Gradually the sensation faded. Firestar’s heartbeat 
slowed, and, feeling slightly foolish, he crawled out 
from underneath the bush. You ’re not a kit, he scolded 
himself. Havent you enough problems without 
imagining more? 

He tried to concentrate on the hunt. Soon he 
scented a mouse, and spotted it scuffling among the 
debris underneath a holly bush. Flattening himself to 
the ground, Firestar began to creep up on it. He was 
about to pounce when a loud rustling in the 


undergrowth alerted his prey; the mouse vanished 
deeper into the thicket with a flick of its tail. 

Firestar let out a snarl of frustration and sank his 
claws into the ground. He was aware of eyes on him 
again, but this time there was none of the hostility he 
had felt before. Glancing over his shoulder, he caught a 
glimpse of tortoiseshell fur and heard a voice hiss, “Be 
quiet! He’ll hear us.” 

“Get off me, then,” another voice replied. “Stupid 
furball.” 

Firestar heaved a sigh, drawing in kittypet scent. 
Cherry and Boris! I might have known it. He began 
slipping through the undergrowth, meaning to come up 
on them from behind and give them the fright of their 
lives. Then he hesitated. 

So they wanted to spy on me? Okay, I'll give 
them something worth watching. 

He tasted the air again, and almost at once found 
another mouse, nibbling on a seed under a beech tree. 
Dropping into the hunter’s crouch, he crept forward, 
hardly letting his paws touch the ground. The mouse 
started to run, but this time Firestar was faster, and he 
brought it down with one blow from his paw. 


From somewhere behind him he heard a gasp of 
admiration; his whiskers twitched with satisfaction as 
he scraped earth over his fresh-kil. He wanted to 
show these kittypets what a Clan cat could do with 
skills trained by a lifetime of following the warrior 
code. 

A couple of tail-lengths away from the edge of the 
thicket a blackbird was pecking at the ground. Firestar 
stalked toward it. StarClan, please dont let this one 
fly away! Bunching his muscles, he pushed off with his 
powerful hind legs and pounced on his prey as it 
fluttered up from the ground. “Thank you, StarClan!” 
he exclaimed aloud, before carrying it back to bury it 
beside the mouse. 

He had only just finished when the scent of squirrel 
flooded over him; the creature was bounding over the 
grass toward a tree a few fox-lengths away. Firestar 
shot out of the bushes, racing at an angle to intercept 
the squirrel at the foot of the tree, where he killed it 
with a swift bite to the throat. 

Turning back to the thicket, he fixed his gaze on a 
gorse bush whose branches were waving wildly. “I 
know you’re there,’ he meowed. “Do you want to 


come out and try for yourselves?” 

For a heartbeat there was silence. Then Cherry 
pushed her way out through the gorse branches with 
Boris a couple of pawsteps behind her. “I told you he’d 
hear you!” she snapped over her shoulder at her 
brother. 

“I could hear both of you,’ Firestar told her. 
“Rampaging through the thicket like a couple of foxes 
in a fit. I’m surprised there was any prey left at all. 
Come on,” he added in a friendlier tone. “PI show you 
what to do.” 

Cherry exchanged a glance with her brother, then 
ran up to Firestar with her tail in the air. “Can you 
really teach us to hunt like that?” 

Boris followed more slowly. “Why did you bury the 
mouse and the blackbird?” he asked. “Don’t you want 
to eat them?” 

Firestar dropped the squirrel. “Yes,” he explained, 
“but not yet. We bury fresh-kill to hide the scent so 
other predators don’t find it before we’re ready to take 
it back to the camp.” 

“But what’s the point of taking it back?” Cherry 
persisted. “Why not eat it here and save yourself the 


trouble?” 

Firestar’s memory winged back to one of his first 
lessons as an apprentice: the Clan must be fed first. 
He had only just left his life as a kittypet; he couldn’t 
have been much different from these two young cats. 
“Clan cats don’t hunt only to feed themselves,” he 
explained. “They take their prey back to camp to feed 
the elders and the nursing queens and any other cats 
who can’t hunt for themselves. That’s a very important 
part of the warrior code.” 

Cherry and Boris glanced at each other again, 
round-eyed. Firestar wondered if they’d understood 
what he had told them. 

“Okay, let’s start,’ he meowed. “What can you 
scent?” 

Cherry let out a little mrrow of amusement. “You 
and Boris!” 

“Apart from me and Boris.” Firestar sighed. “What 
about prey?” 

Both young cats stood still, drawing in air over their 
scent glands. At least they seemed to be concentrating 
hard. Firestar picked up his squirrel and took it across 
to his other fresh-kill, so they wouldn’t confuse its 


scent with the prey they were searching for. 

When he returned, Boris bounced up to him with a 
triumphant gleam in his eyes. “Mouse! I can smell 
mouse.” 

“Welldone,” mewed Firestar. “But you won’t smell 
it for long if you go thumping about like that. A mouse 
can feel your pawsteps through the ground long before 
it hears you or smells you. Remember how I crept up 
on the mouse I caught?” 

“I remember!” Cherry boasted. She dropped into 
the hunter’s crouch and glided forward, only stopping 
to sneeze when a drooping grass stem tickled her nose. 
“Mouse dung!” she spat. 

“That wasn’t bad at al? Firestar told her. The 
crouch wasn’t quite right, and she would have to learn 
to set her paws down much more lightly if she hoped 
to catch a mouse, but for a first effort it was 
promising. “Boris, you try.” 

The young tabby wasn’t as eager to show off as his 
sister, and his greater weight made it harder for him to 
step lightly, but he was doing his best. 

“Like this.” Firestar began to stalk forward, and the 
two kittypets followed his movements with fierce 


concentration. 

Then he spotted a mouse just beyond a clump of dry 
bracken, and pointed to it with his tail. With a twitch of 
his ears he told Cherry to try catching it. 

Her eyes glittered with excitement. Breathlessly 
trying to get her movements right, she crept closer and 
closer, but with her gaze fixed on the mouse she didn’t 
notice that the arching fronds of bracken were in her 
way. She blundered into them, and their shadow swept 
back and forth over the mouse. An instant later it was 


gone. 
Cherry sat up, her tail lashing. “I'll never get it 
right!” she wailed. 


“Yes, you will,’ Firestar reassured her, while her 
brother rested his tail across her shoulders. “It was just 
bad luck about the bracken.” 

He glanced around, tasting the air again. He wanted 
at least one of the kittypets to make a catch before 
their lesson was over. The only prey he could spot was 
a squirrel on the lowest branch of a nearby tree. 

“What about that?” he suggested, wondering if 
Cherry would make another of her spectacular leaps. 
“Do you think you can catch it?” 


“I can!” Cherry charged off, with Boris a mouse- 
length behind her. Reaching the tree, she leaped up, 
forepaws extended, and snagged one claw in the 
squirrel’s tail. It fell to the ground, where Boris 
pounced on it and killed it by biting its throat. Cherry 
stood staring in astonishment, as if she couldn’t believe 
they had really caught something. 

“Well done!” Firestar exclaimed. “Great catch, both 
of you! Can you both jump like that?” 

“Sure.” Boris scraped the ground with his paw. 
“The other cats say we’re showing off, but it’s just 
something we’ve always been able to do.” 

“Well, it’s a good skil? Firestar meowed. “And if 
you both have it, it must mean that your ancestors 
could jump like that too. If they can see you now, I’m 
sure they’re very proud.” 

Boris was looking puzzled. “Yeah, but they can’t see 
us, can they?” 

Firestar wondered if this was the time to tell the 
young cats about SkyClan, but he felt it was too soon. 
“Eat the squirrel if you like,” he encouraged them, 
changing the subject. “You haven’t got a hungry Clan 
to feed.” 


“Tt smells yummy,’ Boris mewed. “Do you want 
some?” 

Water was flooding Firestar’s jaws at the warm 
aroma of the fresh-kill. His belly yowled with hunger 
after the long day with Sky, but he wouldn’t take 
another cat’s prey. Besides, he had fresh-kill of his 
own to share with Sandstorm when he returned to the 
cave. 

“No, thanks,” he replied. “You and Cherry share it.” 

The two young cats glanced at each other 
uncertainly. “The thing is,’ Cherry began, “our 
housefolk get worried if we don’t eat their food. And if 
we’re stuffed full of squirrel, well...” 

“They might give us less next time!” Boris meowed 
wotriedly. 

Firestar, who had seen cats starving for lack of prey, 
couldn’t really sympathize. But some cat had to eat the 
squirrel. Left lying there, it would only attract foxes. 

“You know what?” Cherry put in before he could 
speak. “It smells so good, I don’t care! We can always 
catch another if our housefolk don’t feed us enough.” 

She crouched down beside the squirrel and began to 
tear into it. A heartbeat later Boris joined her, 


ravenously gulping down the fresh-kill. Hiding his 
amusement, Firestar wished them good-bye and went 
to collect his own prey. 


The sun was going down and the caves were in 
shadow by the time he returned to the SkyClan camp. 
Sandstorm was sitting at the entrance of the warriors’ 
cave, gazing across the gorge. 

“You had good hunting,” she commented as Firestar 
dropped his fresh-kill at her paws. 

“Yes, and I came across those two kittypets again.” 
He told her about the hunting lesson, and how Cherry 
and Boris had caught the squirrel. He said nothing to 
her about his odd sensation of being watched by hostile 
eyes before the kittypets arrived; he might have 
imagined it, and he didn’t want to worry her for 
nothing. 

“They've got the makings of good warriors,” 
Sandstorm commented when he had finished. “Did you 
ask them if they wanted to join SkyClan?” 

‘No—” 

“Why not?” Sandstorm twitched the tip of her tail. 


“You have to start somewhere.” 

“T haven’t decided whether I want to start at all.” 

She tipped her head to one side. “So you’re going to 
let Sky down?” 

Firestar couldn’t answer. He still felt it was too late 
to rebuild the lost Clan, but guilt swept over him when 
he thought of the pain Sky would suffer if he refused 
to try. 

“I think we can do it,’ Sandstorm went on. “But we 
can’t stay here forever. We have Clanmates of our 
own who need us, so we ought to start collecting the 
scattered SkyClan cats as soon as we can.” 

She knew him so well, putting her paw on the 
reason for his doubts. How could he reconcile his duty 
to his own Clan with the task that Sky had set him? 
Which path must he choose if he was to stay faithful to 
the warrior code? 

“Cherry and Boris are strong-willed cats,” he began. 
“If they’re going to live by the warrior code, they need 
to adapt to it of their own accord. At the moment, they 
see nothing wrong with their lives. They have to 
choose the warrior code because they really believe 
it’s the right way to live.” 


Sandstorm gave him a doubtful look, clearly 
wondering if he was just making excuses. Firestar 
wasn’t sure himself. 

“Have some fresh-kill,? he mewed, patting the 
squirrel toward Sandstorm. “T’ll think about what Sky 
said. Maybe it will be clearer in the morning.” 

StarClan, show me the way! Show me how I can 
help this Clan! 


CHAPTER 22 


“Firestar! Firestar!” 

Firestar opened his eyes to see the dark shapes of 
two cats outlined against the light in the cave entrance. 
“For StarClan’s sake, what’s the matter?” he 
grumbled, scrambling to his paws. 

As the two cats bounced into the cave he could 
make them out more clearly: Cherry and Boris, their 
ears pricked and their eyes bright. 

“We want another hunting lesson!” Cherry 
announced. 

“Please,” her brother added, giving her a nudge. 

Sandstorm was stirring too, her green eyes no more 
than slits. She stretched her jaws in a huge yawn. “T 
thought all kittypets slept until sunhigh,” she grunted, 
crawling out of her nest and giving herself a shake. 

“Sometimes we do,” meowed Boris. “But it was so 
exciting yesterday, and—” 

“We had such fun!” Cherry interrupted. “You will 
take us with you today, won’t you?” 

Their enthusiasm surprised Firestar, but it pleased 


him too. A sudden pang of homesickness struck him: 
these two young cats could easily have been 
ThunderClan apprentices, begging to be taken out on a 
hunting patrol. 

“We can take one each,” Sandstorm suggested with 
another yawn. “We’ll split up; too many cats together 
will scare off all the prey.” 

“True,” Firestar agreed. “Especially here, where 
there’s so little cover. You take Boris, and PI have 
Cherry.” 

The young tortoiseshell gave an excited little 
bounce. “I bet we catch more prey than you!” she 
boasted to her brother. 

With Boris following her, Sandstorm left the cave 
and took the trail that led to the thickets at the top of 
the cliff. Firestar led Cherry in the other direction, 
down to the river. The sun had risen into a blue sky 
dotted with white clouds. Sunlight sparkled on the 
surface of the water, but the day was still cool. A fresh 
breeze rippled Firestar’s fur. 

“Are we going back to where we hunted 
yesterday?” Cherry asked excitedly. 

Firestar paused halfway down the trail. They would 


find plenty of prey downstream, but he couldn’t forget 
the sense of cold malice that he had felt there the day 
before. Even though he knew they couldn’t afford to 
abandon a good hunting ground, he wasn’t in any hurry 
to meet what lay behind those invisible watching eyes. 

“No,” he decided. “We’ll go upstream instead 
today.” 

For a heartbeat Cherry looked as if she might argue, 
then obviously thought better of it. Firestar picked his 
way down to the tumbled rocks where the river welled 
out into the light. As he leaped the last tail-length to the 
ground, he set one paw on a sharp chip of rock; pain 
stabbed through his pad like a claw. Letting out a hiss 
of anger, he paused to give the injured pad a quick lick. 
It wasn’t bleeding, but it was sore enough to make him 
limp. 

Cherry had bounded ahead, but when she realized 
Firestar wasn’t with her, she came running back. 
“What’s the matter?” 

Firestar looked at her. “Aren’t your pads sore?” 

Cherry shook her head, and lifted one paw to show 
him. Her pads were tougher than his, with hard gray 
skin good for walking on rocks. Ruefully Firestar 


showed Cherry his own pads, the soft black skin 
scarred and rubbed raw from the rough ground. 

Cherry blinked in surprise. “I never thought a cat’s 
pads could get like that!” 

“Remember, I don’t come from around here,” 
Firestar explained. “I’m more used to walking on soft 
forest ground.” He wondered if this was the 
opportunity he had been waiting for. Should he tell 
Cherry about her ancestry? She would need to know if 
she was ever to become a SkyClan warrior. 

He took a deep breath. “You remember that I told 
you how you inherited your ability to jump from your 
ancestors? Well, you inherited your strong paws from 
them too. Your ancestors were able to settle here 
because they had the right kind of bodies and the right 
skills.” 

The young tortoiseshell stared at him, her eyes 
stretched wide. “Do you mean that? You’re not just 
telling a story?” 

“No, it’s true.” 

“How do you know so much about my ancestors?” 

With a wave of his tail, Firestar led her into a patch 
of shade cast by a scrubby thorn tree at the foot of the 


cliff. When they were sitting side by side, their pelts 
brushing, he told her about the forest where he came 
from, and how four Clans of cats lived there. 

“Once there were five Clans, but the fifth Clan, 
SkyClan, was sent away a long, long time ago. The 
cats came here and settled in the caves, but then they 
broke up and scattered. There’s no SkyClan anymore, 
but some cats—like you and Boris—are descended 
from the original Clan.” 

Cherry’s whiskers quivered with excitement. 
“Wow!” 

“Look.” Firestar pointed with his tail to the caves in 
the cliff face and the stony trails that connected them. 
“This was the SkyClan camp. The warriors lived in the 
cave where Sandstorm and I sleep. That cave there 
with the boulder at the entrance was the nursery—” 

“Yes, I can see there’s room for lots of cats,” 
Cherry interrupted. “But why are you telling me all 
this?” 

“Because Sky believes—” 

The young tortoiseshell blinked. “Sky? Who’s Sky?” 

“The cat you call Moony,” Firestar meowed. “Yes, 
the one you were so rude to. His real name is Sky. He 


is the last warrior of SkyClan—and he’s your kin.” 

Cherry’s fur fluffed up and her eyes stretched wider 
than ever. “Our kin? But we’re kittypets!” 

“You and Sky are all descended from the cats of 
SkyClan. And that’s why I have come here—to find 
the scattered Clan and rebuild it.” 

“Starting with me and Boris?” Cherry’s voice was a 
squeak of surprise. 

Firestar suppressed a mrrow of amusement. “You’ll 
have to make your own minds up about that,’ he 
replied. ‘Pll show you as much of Clan life and the 
warrior code as I can, and then you must decide.” 

For once Cherry was silent. Her gaze traveled up 
the cliff face where the caves were. Firestar 
wondered if she was trying to imagine what it would 
be like to live there with a whole Clan of cats. 

And he realized that somehow, without consciously 
making the decision, he had accepted that he must 
stay. 


They returned to the warriors’ cave at sunhigh, 
laden with fresh-kill. The gorge basked in the heat like 


a huge, sandy-furred animal. Firestar winced as he set 
down his pads on the hot rock, but Cherry ran ahead 
without seeming to notice. 

Sandstorm and Boris had already returned. They sat 
beside a small pile of fresh-kill; Boris was gulping 
down a sparrow. 

Cherry pattered across the cave and dropped her 
prey on the pile. “Guess what, Boris? We’re not 
kittypets at all! We’re from SkyClan! They came from 
the forest where Firestar and Sandstorm live, all the 
way down the river, and they made their camp here. 
They—” 

“Sandstorm told me too,’ Boris mterrupted. His 
amber eyes shone with excitement. “She says we can 
be SkyClan warriors if we want.” 

“You'd make good warriors,” Sandstorm put in, with 
an approving glance at the young tabby tom. “Boris 
hunted really well today.” 

“So did Cherry.” Firestar twitched his ears toward 
the fresh-kill pile. “Go on; help yourself.” 

Cherry seized a mouse and began to devour it 
ravenously. Both cats seemed to have forgotten their 
worries about not being able to manage their Twoleg 


food as well. 

“That tasted great!” Boris finished his sparrow and 
cleaned his whiskers with one paw. “Can we come 
again tomorrow?” 

“Of course,” Sandstorm replied. “You'll have to, if 
you want to learn about the warrior code.” 

“We do!” Cherry meowed enthusiastically. 

“Just a moment.” Firestar padded across the cave 
and sat down in front of the two young cats. “You do 
realize that the warrior code isn’t just about having 
fun? It’s a way of life. You can’t live with your 
housefolk and pop to the gorge whenever you feel like 
it. If you want to be warriors, this has to be your 
home.” 

“Leave our housefolk?” Boris looked up from his 
sparrow, his eyes huge and serious. “I don’t know... 
they’re kind and they feed us, and they’d worry about 
us if we went away.” 

“But if we’re really SkyClan cats, then this is where 
we need to live,” Cherry argued. She gave her brother 
a nudge. “Come on! Don’t you want to stay out as 
long as we want, even when it’s dark? Wouldn’t you 
rather eat mice and squirrels than that stupid kittypet 


food?” 

Firestar exchanged a glance with Sandstorm. 
Cherry couldn’t understand yet what it truly meant to 
be a warrior. In leaf-bare, with prey scarce and snow 
on the ground, she might have second thoughts. 

“You don’t have to make your minds up yet,’ he 
went on; he felt he had to warn her, even though he 
didn’t want to dampen her enthusiasm. “Living by the 
warrior code can be hard.” 

“But you said we’ve got the right sort of bodies.” 
Cherry gave her brother another vigorous nudge, so he 
almost toppled over. “You know you want to do this, 
don’t you?” 

“T guess....” Boris was still thoughtful. Then he rose 
to his paws, a determined look in his eyes. “Well, I'll 
give it a try.” 

“Me too!” Cherry sprang up, gulping down the last 
mouthful of prey. “Come on, Boris. We can practice 
stalking in our garden.” 

Both young cats charged out of the cave. A 
heartbeat later, Cherry whisked back to mew, 
“Thanks! Bye!” and vanished again. 

Sandstorm’s green eyes glinted with amusement. “Tt 


looks as if we’ve found our first two apprentices.” 


Firestar and Sandstorm slept through the heat of the 
day. When the shadows were gathering, they set off to 
explore farther up the gorge. 

“Sky showed us the downstream borders of the 
territory,” Firestar meowed, “but he never told us how 
far it stretches in this direction.” 

“We could ask him.” 

Firestar glanced across to the other side of the 
gorge. They were just passing the huge boulder that 
hid the twisting path to Sky’s den among the roots of 
the thorn tree. There was no sign of the old cat, and 
Firestar didn’t want to go looking for him. He wanted 
more to report than a couple of possible apprentices 
before he talked to Sky again. 

“Let’s see what we can find for ourselves,” he 
mewed. 

The gorge grew narrower until a cat could almost 
have leaped from one side to the other. The sky above 
their heads was still bright, but little sunlight penetrated 
between the soaring cliffs on either side. The ground 


beneath their paws was dry and sandy, and the air was 
still. 

Suddenly Sandstorm checked. “Fox!” 

At the same instant the reek flooded over Firestar, 
and he heard a drawn-out snarling from the shadows 
ahead. It was followed by the screech of a cat. 

“Come on!” Firestar’s paws flew over the ground, 
his sore pads forgotten. 

Sandstorm raced beside him. Around the next curve 
in the gorge, they saw the fox. It stood stiff-legged, its 
lips drawn back to bare sharp fangs. Firestar guessed 
it was starving; its ribs stuck out from a thin, ragged 
pelt. 

In front of the fox crouched a pale brown she-cat; 
her fur bristled defiantly, but her eyes were wide with 
fear. Behind her was a pile of sandy rocks surrounded 
by thick thorn-bushes. Firestar spotted a dark opening 
in the rocks, and heard the mewling of terrified kits. 

“She’s protecting her kits!” Sandstorm gasped. 

Firestar let out a yowl and flung himself on the fox. 
It turned on him, its jaws snapping for his throat. 
Sandstorm dashed in and raked her claws down its 
other side before it spun around and batted her away 


with one paw. Spitting with rage, Firestar leaped for its 
shoulder, snagging his claws in its pelt and trying to 
bury his teeth in its neck. 

Even though the fox was starving, it could still fight 
furiously, or perhaps hunger had maddened it. Lashing 
its head from side to side, it dropped to the ground, 
trying to crush Firestar beneath it. His muzzle was 
buried in its fur; its hot scent was all around him as he 
struggled to breathe. He felt the sharp pain of claws in 
his belly. With a massive heave he managed to break 
free and scramble to his paws. Blood from his wound 
spattered in the sand, and his legs felt unsteady. 

Sandstorm attacked again, darting rapidly in and out 
to deal a swift blow before the fox could retaliate, in an 
effort to lead it away from the kits. The she-cat still 
crouched in the mouth of the den, protecting her litter. 
With another vicious snarl the fox lunged for 
Sandstorm and grabbed her by the hind leg. Sandstorm 
let out a shriek of pain. Firestar staggered toward 
them, but pain blurred his vision, and though he clawed 
at the fox’s haunches he couldn’t get any strength 
behind the blow. 

StarClan, help us! 


A yowl sounded from farther down the gorge. 
Another cat was racing to join the battle; it was the 
dark ginger tom who had been hunting among the 
bushes downstream. 

Letting out another furious screech, the rogue 
sprang up onto the rocks above the mouth of the den. 
He clung there for a couple of heartbeats, his claws 
gripping the rough surface, then hurled himself down to 
land on the fox’s head. 

The fox let out a squeal of pain and released 
Sandstorm. She leaped up on three paws and flung 
herself back into the battle, scoring a deep gash down 
the fox’s side. Firestar’s head was clearing now; he bit 
down on the fox’s tail and heard it shriek. 

The rogue was balanced on the fox’s head, the 
claws of all four paws sunk deep into its fur. Blood 
welled from the scratches and began to trickle into the 
creature’s eyes. Suddenly it gave up and began to 
stumble away. The ginger tom jumped down, and 
Firestar aimed a final blow at the fox’s haunches as it 
limped into the shadows. 

Breathing heavily, the three cats gazed at one 
another. “Thanks,” Firestar panted. “That could have 


been nasty if you hadn’t turned up.” 

“Don’t thank me.” The tomcat narrowed his eyes. 
“I don’t like foxes any more than you do. You look a 
bit battered,” he added, his gaze flicking from Firestar 
to Sandstorm and back again. 

Sandstorm flexed her injured leg and put her paw to 
the ground. “PI be okay.” 

Firestar examined his belly wound, drawing his 
tongue a few times over the blood-soaked fur. To his 
relief, the scratch wasn’t deep, and the bleeding had 
already stopped. “We’ll be fine,’ he meowed. “We 
needed a fight to liven us up.” To his surprise, he 
realized that was true; for several days now he and 
Sandstorm had done little except rest in the warriors’ 
cave and occasionally hunt. Now he felt more alive, 
more like a true Clan warrior. 

“Youre all so brave! Thank you so much! You 
saved my kits.” 

Firestar turned to see the pale brown she-cat guiding 
three kits toward them, her tail curled protectively 
around them: a black tom, a ginger tom, and a tiny 
white she-cat. 

“I’m Clover,” the she-cat announced, “and these are 


Rock, Bounce, and Tiny.” 

Sandstorm dipped her head. “I’m Sandstorm, and 
this is Firestar.” 

Firestar turned to the other rogue, waiting for him to 
introduce himself. Instead, he met a challenging gaze 
from green eyes that sparked with intelligence. 
“Names are easy,” the ginger tom meowed, “but who 
are you? What are you doing here, and how long do 
you mean to stay?” 

For a few moments Firestar was taken aback. The 
questions, and the cat’s authoritative tone, reminded 
him of how he might have spoken if he had come 
across rogues in ThunderClan territory. 

“T saw you farther down the gorge,” he began. 

“And I saw you.” The ginger tom’s ears flattened. 
“You were hunting with those two crazy kittypets. 
Why do you want to bother with them?” 

“Cherry and Boris are okay,” Sandstorm mewed 
defensively. 

“What does it matter why they’re here?” Clover 
broke in. “The fox would have eaten my kits if they 
hadn’t come along!” 

“T was here, wasn’t I?” the ginger tom growled. He 


unsheathed powerful claws and dug them into the 
sandy earth. “I can see off any fox that’s ever been 
born.” His gaze rested on Firestar again. “So, what’s 
your story?” 

“You won't go yet, will you?” Clover begged, with a 
nervous glance into the shadows. “The fox might come 
back.” 

“We’ll stay for a while,” Sandstorm promised. 

Clover lay down in the mouth of her den so that her 
three kits could burrow into her side and feed. The 
other cats settled down beside her, Firestar and 
Sandstorm licking their wounds in between telling the 
ginger tom about SkyClan. 

‘Tve seen that old cat a few times,” the rogue 
meowed when Firestar recounted his meeting with 
Sky. “I’ve never spoken to him, though. He looks mad 
to me.” 

“He’s not mad. He knows more about the lost Clan 
than any cat alive.” Firestar explained what Sky had 
told them. “The Clan lived here many moons ago, in 
the caves near the rocks where the river pours out. 
They’re all gone now, but Sky believes that I can find 
their descendants and rebuild the Clan.” 


Firestar was suddenly aware of how foolish he 
sounded. “I know it’s a big decision for any cat...,” he 
went on. 

“Not for me.” Clover looked up, her ears pricked. 
“T’d come and live in your Clan in a heartbeat. My kits’ 
father went away before they were born, and it’s hard 
bringing them up on my own.” She drew her tail more 
closely around her kits; by now they had finished 
suckling, and lay sleeping in a tricolored puddle of 
warm fur. “Suppose that fox comes back when you’ ve 
gone?” 

“I could look after you,’ the rogue tom reminded 
her. “T turned up in time today, didn’t I?” 

“But you hardly ever come this far up the gorge,” 
Clover retorted. “How often have we spoken to each 
other before now?” Ignoring his hiss of annoyance, she 
turned back to Firestar. “I'll join the new Clan. We’ll 
all come back to the caves with you today.” 

Firestar felt his paws tingle with excitement. A 
nursing queen and three kits was a valuable addition to 
any Clan. “Well, that’s great. We can go now. What 
about you?” he added with a glance at the ginger tom. 
“Will you join us too?” 


“I manage fine by myself, thanks.” 

Firestar’s pelt prickled with disappomtment. This 
proud, strong, intelligent cat would make a good 
warrior. 

“Mind you,” the rogue went on, before Firestar 
could think of a way to persuade him, “I like the idea 
of training cats to defend themselves. And I liked the 
fighting moves you used to drive the fox away.” 

“Come with us and we’ll teach you,” Firestar 
offered. 

The ginger rogue blinked at him. “Yov’d really teach 
me everything you know?” He sounded as if he 
couldn’t believe cats would share battle secrets that 
would make them easier to fight. 

“Of course,’ mewed Firestar. “Clanmates don’t 
fight one another, except for training.” 

“That could be a good way to live,” the rogue 
meowed. 

“Then you'll come?” Sandstorm asked eagerly. 

The rogue hesitated, then dipped his head. “PI give 
it a try. But I’m not promising to stay for good.” 

“We won’t ask you to decide that yet,’ mewed 
Firestar. “Just come to the caves for a while, and find 


out more about what it means to live in a Clan.” 
“And tell us your name, please,” Sandstorm added. 
For a few heartbeats the ginger tom was silent, 
staring into the distance. “Living alone, a cat doesn’t 
need a name, but now...A long time ago, I think my 
mother called me Scratch.” 


The waning moon floated above the gorge, shedding 
pale light over the Skyrock. Firestar jumped over the 
cleft and stood back to wait for Sandstorm. 

“Well?” he asked when his mate had landed by his 
side. “What do you think? Have we got the makings of 
a new Clan?” 

Sandstorm sat down and gave her chest fur a few 
quick licks. “It’s a start,’ she mewed, “but there’s a 
long way to go yet.” 

“I know,” Firestar replied. “I’m afraid Scratch will 
decide not to stay. He didn’t want to sleep in the 
warriors’ cave with us tonight. He’s still thinking like a 
rogue.” 

“Give him time. What worries me,” Sandstorm went 
on, drawing one paw over her ear, “is the way Clover 


wants to be looked after the whole time. I tried to tell 
her that the proper place for her and her kits is in the 
nursery—I even offered to collect the moss and 
bracken for her—but would she listen? She insists on 
sleeping in the warriors’ cave, in case the fox finds 
her.” 

“She needs time too,” Firestar comforted her, resting 
his tail tip on her shoulder. “She had a nasty fright 
today. She’ll soon learn fighting skills, and then she’ ll 
realize she can look after her kits herself.” 

“I hope you're right,” Sandstorm meowed. 

Firestar heard the sound of pawsteps on the trail 
leading up to the Skyrock. He glanced down, half 
prepared to see Scratch, but to his surprise the cat who 
came into sight was Sky. 

“Whats he doing here?” he murmured to 
Sandstorm. “The moon isn’t full.” 

Moonlight turned the old cat’s gray pelt to silver; he 
walked with his head raised proudly, like a true warrior 
of SkyClan. As he approached the Skyrock, he 
quickened his pace, and leaped across without 
hesitation to land on the smooth surface. 

“Greetings, Sky.” Firestar and Sandstorm dipped 


their heads to him. 

The old cat returned their greeting with a brief nod. 
“I saw more cats arrive today.” 

“That’s right.” Firestar expected Sky to sound more 
pleased, but there was a wary glitter in his eyes. “I 
think we might be on the way to rebuilding SkyClan.” 

A low growl rumbled in Sky’s throat. “That ginger 
rogue would tear your throat out as soon as look at 
you. And as for those kittypets! I don’t know why 
you’re wasting your time with them.” 

“The kittypets will be fine,’ Sandstorm mewed. 
“They’re young; they’ve got lots of time to learn. And 
they’re true SkyClan cats! Have you seen how high 
they can leap?” 

Sky just sniffed. 

“And Scratch—that’s the ginger rogue’s name,” 
Firestar went on, “is tough and a fighter, and once he’s 
learned about the warrior code, he’ ll be just the sort of 
cat a Clan needs.” 

To his relief the old cat nodded. “Maybe you’re 
right,’ he mewed grudgingly. “At least you’re keeping 
your promise.” 

He raised his head to the glitter of Silverpelt above 


them. Following his gaze, Firestar wondered if the 
SkyClan ancestor was watching. Are you pleased 
too? he wondered. Is this what you wanted from 
me? 


There was no answer, nothing but the distant blaze 
of stars. 


CHAPTER 23 


“Cats who live in a Clan send out hunting patrols 
several times a day,” Firestar explained, pausing at the 
end of the line of Twoleg fences. “And we patrol the 
borders twice, once at dawn and once at sunset.” 

“So are we the dawn patrol?” Boris asked. 

“Mouse-brain!” His sister Cherry swiped at him 
with one paw. “SkyClan doesn’t have borders yet. 
We’re hunters, aren’t we, Firestar?” 

“That’s right,’ Firestar meowed. “We’ll have 
borders soon, when I know the territory a bit better, 
and see how many cats are going to be living here. 
Meanwhile, this is SkyClan’s first proper hunting 
patrol.” 

Cherry gave a happy little bounce. “Great! We 
haven’t caught much, though,” she added, sounding 
disappointed. “I can’t seem to pick up any scent at 
all.” 

“That’s because it’s wet,” Firestar told her. “Even 
experienced hunters find it hard.” 

Fog filled the gorge and stretched over the scrubland 


on the cliff top as far as the Twolegplace. The rising 
sun shone through it with a milky light. Every grass 
stem was bent with the weight of water droplets, and 
dew misted on the cats’ fur. 

“But that’s no excuse for taking risks.” Scratch 
looked up from where he was digging up some fresh- 
kill they had buried earlier. “I couldn’t believe you two. 
You leaped straight into that garden without looking.” 

“Sorry,” Cherry muttered, while Boris scrabbled his 
forepaws on the ground in front of him. 

“Sorry? is all very well,” snapped the rogue. “You 
nearly landed right on top of that dog. If Firestar hadn’t 
distracted it, you would be dog food by now. And you 
lost the squirrel you were chasing.” 

Boris sighed. “It was lovely and fat.” 

Scratch rolled his eyes and went back to scraping 
away the earth over their prey. 

Firestar gave him a quick glance. It was four days 
since Scratch and Clover had come to live in the 
caves, and Scratch’s hunting skills were already 
proving useful, but he had no patience with the two 
kittypets. 

“They’ll learn,” Firestar meowed, and added to 


Cherry and Boris, “You’re coming along really well.” 

“Can we come and live in the camp all the time?” 
Cherry begged. 

“Not yet.” Firestar was relieved the young cat was 
so keen to jom the Clan, but he wondered if she 
realized what a huge decision she was making. “What 
about leaving your housefolk?” 

Cherry’s tail drooped and her eyes grew more 
thoughtful. “I like sitting on a lap and being stroked, 
and I like playing with our housefolk and making them 
laugh...but I like hunting too. I wish we could have 
both.” 

“Well, we can’t,’ mewed Boris. “I worry about our 
housefolk missing us, too. If we could just tell them 
that we’ll be okay...” He took a deep breath. “But if 
we are really descendants of the first SkyClan, we 
belong in the gorge.” 

Firestar blinked at him. “I think you need to take 
your time before you make the final decision.” Scratch 
had been right to scold them for dashing into the 
garden, even though he could have been more tactful. 
The kittypets’ biggest fault was charging blindly into 
things. But at least it showed they had courage, a 


valuable quality in a warrior. 

“How much longer?” Cherry demanded. “Can we 
be apprentices soon?” 

Before Firestar could reply, Scratch looked up. “Are 
we just going to stand around here? I want to be back 
in the gorge before the mist clears. I’ve never had 
anything to do with Twolegs, and I don’t intend to start 
now.” 

“Good thinking,” Firestar meowed. Already the 
Twoleg nests were standing out more clearly against 
the dawn sky, and he could hear a monster waking up 
in the distance. “Bring your prey, and let’s go.” 

As he led the way across the scrubland, his jaws full 
of fresh-kill and his ears pricked for any sound of 
danger, optimism swept over him. He was leading a 
patrol, taking prey back to a camp. For the first time 
since he left the forest, he felt as if he were really part 
of a Clan. 


By the time they returned to the warriors’ cave, the 
sun had burned off most of the mist. Even though the 
leaves were beginning to turn yellow, the gorge was 


still bathed in the heat of greenleaf. 

Sandstorm was climbing the trail from the gorge. 
Her green eyes were sparking with annoyance, and 
the tip of her tail flicked. 

“What’s the matter?” Firestar asked, setting down 
his fresh-kill at the cave entrance. 

Sandstorm beckoned with her tail, so he took a few 
pawsteps down the path to meet her, away from 
Scratch and the kittypets. 

“It’s Clover,’ she murmured when he was close 
enough to hear. “I’ve been trying to teach her some 
fighting skills. She’s a strong, healthy cat—she 
shouldn’t have any problem—but can I make her see 
why she has to learn? ‘Oh, you and Firestar are such 
good fighters I know you'll look after us all?” 
Sandstorm let out a sigh. “She’s keen enough to join 
SkyClan, but just for protection. She’s not interested in 
the warrior code, or what she might do for other cats.” 

Firestar narrowed his eyes. “That could be difficult 
for her to learn right now,” he mewed. “It’s natural for 
a queen to put her kits’ safety first. And she must be 
pretty tired, raising those three lively youngsters.” 

“But at least she could try,” Sandstorm pointed out. 


She glanced down into the gorge where Clover was 
basking on a rock by the side of the pool, with her kits 
frisking around her. “Bounce and Rock and Tiny were 
trying to copy what I was showing their mother. 
Honestly, I think they learned more than she did!” 

Firestar pressed his muzzle against hers. “It'll work 
out. She couldn’t have a better teacher.” 

Sandstorm gave him a sidelong glance, and seemed 
to relax. “Lets go down to the river,’ she mewed. 
“My paws could do with bathing.” 

Firestar’s paws felt sore, too, and as he followed 
Sandstorm down the stony trail he longed to feel the 
cool, damp earth of the forest under his pads. A few 
fox-lengths upstream he could hear the excited squeals 
of Clover’s litter. 

“You know, those kits are almost ready to be 
apprenticed,” he remarked as they stood in the 
shallows. 

“They must be nearly six moons old,’ Sandstorm 
agreed, blinking against the sunlit dazzle on the water. 
“But we can’t apprentice them until we find a few 
more mentors.” 

‘TIl ask Scratch and Clover if they know of any 


more cats,” Firestar meowed. 

He broke off at the sound of voices calling his name 
from somewhere up above. Cherry and Boris were 
charging down the rock face, springing gracefully 
down sheer stretches of rock where Firestar and 
Sandstorm had to pick their way more cautiously. 

“Firestar!” Cherry panted as she sprang to the 
ground and pelted along the bank toward him. “We had 
an idea!” 

“You mean 7 had an idea,” Boris mewed, bouncing 
up to stand beside his sister. 

Cherry tried to shoulder him into the water, but Boris 
ducked away and swiped one paw over her ear. 
Cherry pounced on him, and the two kittypets wrestled 
at the very edge of the river. 

“When you've quite finished”’ Sandstorm 
interrupted, “maybe you'll tell us what your idea is.” 

The two young cats straightened up, looking 
embarrassed. “I guess apprentices don’t do that,” 
Cherry muttered. 

Apprentices do that all the time, Firestar thought. 
“T’m listening,” he meowed. 

“I thought you should have a meeting,” Boris 


explained, his fur fluffed up with enthusiasm. “We can 
tell all the cats who live near here to come, so you can 
tell them about the new Clan.” 

“But we don’t know any other cats,’ Firestar 
pointed out. 

“No, hang on,” Sandstorm meowed, before Boris 
could reply. “I think it’s a good idea. After all, we’re 
looking for cats who can live together and cooperate 
with one another, so if they turn up to a meeting 
they’ve already passed the first test.” 

“T hadn’t thought of that.” Firestar waded out of the 
river, shook each paw in turn, and sat down on a sun- 
warmed rock. “Right, go on. Where do we find these 
cats?” 

“We find them.” Cherry’s green eyes sparkled. “We 
can pass the message on to all the other kittypets. 
We’ ll go now if you like.” 

“They'll all be outside on a day like this,’ Boris 
added. 

Firestar exchanged a glance with Sandstorm. 
“Okay,” he decided. “We’ll give it a try—but if we 
expect these cats to come to a meeting they deserve to 
see who'll be talking to them. I’m coming with you.” 


Firestar peered down through a rustling screen of 
leaves into the Twoleg garden. He couldn’t see much 
except for a stretch of grass and a few clumps of 
bright Twoleg flowers, but there was a strong scent of 
cat. 

Cherry and Boris were crouched on the branch 
below him. “Hey, Oscar!” Cherry called. “Come up 
here! We want to talk to you.” 

A moment later Firestar spotted a muscular black 
tomcat racing across the grass. He launched himself 
into the tree with a magnificent leap. SkyClan blood, 
Firestar thought as the newcomer balanced on the 
branch beside Boris and Cherry. 

“What’s going on?” he asked. His whiskers 
twitched as he looked up at Firestar. “Who’s he?” 

Firestar took a deep breath. “My name’s Firestar,” 
he meowed, deciding not to confuse the black cat with 
details about the forest and ThunderClan. That wasn’t 
important now. “Have you ever heard of SkyClan? 
The cats who used to live in the gorge by the river?” 

Oscar swished his tail. “Nope. Never heard of 
them.” 


Cherry and Boris exchanged a glance; Cherry 
opened her jaws to reply, but Firestar silenced her with 
a flick of his ears. 

“But they've heard about you,” Firestar went on, 
“and there are things you need to know about them. 
We’re holding a meeting tomorrow night in the gorge, 
by the rocks where the river flows out. Will you 
come?” 

Oscar’s eyes narrowed to brillant green slits. He 
raised one paw and slid the claws out, contemplating 
them coolly. “Might. Might not.” 

Firestar bit back his frustration. He guessed Oscar 
was a bit of a show-off, but at the same time this was 
a strong cat who would be a useful Clan member. 
“You see, I’m trying to rebuild SkyClan, and I’m 
looking for any cats who might be interested in 
joining.” 

Oscar stretched his jaws wide in a yawn. “Why 
would I want to do that?” Not waiting for an answer, 
he jumped down from the tree and disappeared. 

“Come anyway! See what you think!” Firestar 
called after him. 

Cherry’s neck fur bristled. “We should have known 


better than to ask him!” she mewed. “He’s a real pain 
in the tail.” 

“Never mind,” Firestar replied. “We have to ask as 
many cats as we can.” 

“Let’s get on, then.” Boris sprang impatiently to his 
paws. “I think we should talk to Hutch next.” 

“Yes, let’s.” Cherry’s eyes gleamed and she swiped 
her tongue over her whiskers. “His Twolegs give him 
cream!” 

The two kittypets led Firestar along the fence of 
Oscar’s garden and down into a narrow alley. 
Firestar’s fur prickled as he remembered being lost in 
the other Twolegplace while he was looking for 
Sandstorm, but his two guides trotted ahead 
confidently. 

Before they had gone far, another cat appeared 
around the corner and halted with its pelt bristling, then 
relaxed as Boris and Cherry drew closer. 

“Hi, Bella,’ Cherry greeted her. “Come and meet 
our new friend.” 

Firestar padded up to Bella, a pretty tabby-and- 
white she-cat with warm amber eyes. He was 
reminded of his sister Princess, who lived in the 


Twolegplace that bordered the forest. This cat didn’t 
look as if she had SkyClan ancestry; she didn’t have 
the same powerful haunches as Boris and Cherry, and 
when she raised her paw to dab at a piece of dust on 
her nose, her pads were soft and pink. 

“Hello.” Bella dipped her head politely. “You’re new 
around here. Where do your housefolk live?” 

“Firestar doesn’t have housefolk,’ Boris informed 
her. “He’s a Clan cat.” 

Bella’s eyes stretched wide with curiosity, changing 
to wonder as Firestar briefly told his story. 

“You'll come to the meeting, won’t you?” Cherry 
prompted when he had finished. “It'll be great, living in 
a Clan! I'll show you how to catch mice.” 

Bella shook her head. “I couldn’t possibly do that. I 
would miss my housefolk far too much, and they would 
miss me.” 

“But—” Boris began. 

“No,” Bella repeated more firmly. “The other night I 
got shut in the neighbor’s shed, and when I got back 
my housefolk’s kits were wailing. I can’t bear to think 
of them upset like that again.” She pressed her muzzle 
affectionately against Cherry’s. “But I hope you enjoy 


living in this new Clan, if that’s what you want.” 

“Thanks, Bella.” Cherry looked unusually serious. 
“We’ll come and visit you sometimes; I promise.” She 
watched as the she-cat trotted away down the alley. 
“TI miss her,” she muttered. “She’s a good friend.” 

Boris gave her ear a quick lick. “Come on; let’s go 
and find Hutch.” 

At the other end of the alley Cherry and Boris 
paused beside another fence. One of the wooden strips 
was broken at the bottom, leaving a space just wide 
enough for a cat to squeeze in. 

“We've got to be careful,’ Boris warned. “Hutch’s 
Twolegs have a dog as well. It should be shut up, but 
keep your eyes open.” 

Cherry had already pushed her way through the 
gap. Firestar followed warily, while Boris brought up 
the rear. 

On the other side of the fence, Firestar found 
himself in a thicket of strong-smelling bushes. Beyond 
it a stretch of grass led up to a path made of sharp little 
stones running around the Twoleg nest. 

“Hey, Hutch!” Boris yowled. “Are you in there?” 

Firestar stiffened as a flurry of barking came from 


the nest, but no dog appeared. Instead, a tiny door 
swung open in the big Twoleg door, and a dark tabby 
cat poked its head out. Spotting Cherry and Boris, he 
slid out the rest of the way, bounded across the stony 
path without flinching, and raced over the grass to 
meet them in the shadow of the bushes. He was not as 
powerfully built as Oscar, but he looked strong, and 
Firestar had noticed when he crossed the path that he 
had the hard pads that were a mark of SkyClan. He 
smelled strongly of kittypet food. 

“Hi,” he meowed with a friendly flick of his ears to 
Firestar. “My name’s Hutch; what’s yours?” 

Once again Firestar introduced himself and told the 
story of SkyClan. “The SkyClan cats could live in the 
gorge because they had strong back legs for jumping, 
and hard pads for walking over rock. Just like Cherry 
and Boris.” He felt a stirring of relief when Hutch 
raised one of his own paws to examine his pads. 
“We’re holding a meeting to talk about it.” 

Hutch looked intrigued. “I’ve heard about cats living 
wild in the gorge,” he told Firestar. “My mother used to 
tell me, but I thought they were just stories for kits.” 

“No, it’s all true,” Boris mewed, and Cherry added 


enthusiastically, “We’re going to be SkyClan 
apprentices!” 

“So you'll come to the meeting?” Firestar asked. 
“Tomorrow night, in the gorge where the river flows 
out.” 

“Sure,” Hutch replied. 

Firestar dipped his head. “Then we’ll see you 
there.” 

Hutch flicked his tail in farewell and turned to go, 
then glanced back. “Are you hungry?” 

Cherry’s ears pricked. “Cream?” she mewed 
hopefully, swiping her tongue around her jaws. 

“A whole bowlful.” 

“Hang on,” Firestar meowed, before Cherry or 
Boris could move. “You can be a SkyClan apprentice, 
or you can go into Twoleg nests and eat cream. Not 
both.” 

“But we’re not apprentices yet,’ Cherry retorted 
pertly. 

Part of Firestar was amused, but he knew that if he 
gave his permission now the two young kittypets might 
never really appreciate what it meant to join a Clan. If 
they weren’t ready to give up Twoleg comforts, they 


weren’t ready to live the life of a warrior. 

“SkyClan or cream,” he meowed. “You choose.” 

Cherry and Boris exchanged a glance, and Cherry 
let out a disappointed sigh. 

“It’s got to be SkyClan,” she replied. 

“Fresh-kill tastes better anyway,” Boris mewed. 
“Come on; we’ve got lots more cats to see.” 

They plunged back into the bushes toward the 
fence. Firestar waited to say good-bye to Hutch, and 
saw his own amusement reflected in the dark tabby’s 
eyes. Suddenly he felt encouraged. This was a cat he 
could work with. 

Cherry and Boris led the way back into the alley and 
around a corner to the edge of a small Thunderpath. 
Firestar paused by the fence, his neck fur bristling at 
the reek of monsters. One of them was crouched a 
few fox-lengths away, but it seemed to be asleep. 

“It’s okay,” Boris meowed, strolling nonchalantly up 
to the edge of the Thunderpath. “It’s pretty quiet at this 
time of day.” 

Cherry bounced up to join him; Firestar admitted to 
himself that he was impressed. These two kittypets 
had a lot to learn about Clan life and the warrior code, 


but here they were confident and focused, and they 
seemed to know every pawstep of the Twolegplace. 

Trying not to show his uneasiness, he padded across 
to join them, glancing both ways along the 
Thunderpath. No monsters were in sight, and he 
couldn’t hear any approaching. 

“Come on!” Cherry urged. 

Firestar signaled with his tail, though he wasn’t sure 
that the two young cats were waiting for his order. 
“Okay, let’s go.” 

All three cats darted across; Cherry and Boris 
swarmed up the nearest fence and balanced on the 
top, waiting for Firestar. 

“We can go along this fence,” Boris explained. 
“We’ll pass two or three gardens where cats live. 
Watch out for this next one, though. The Twolegs here 
have a dog.” 

“Noisy little brute.” Cherry sniffed. “It'll probably 
come out, barking its stupid head off.” 

She was right. As soon as Boris set paw on the next 
section of fence, a small white dog shot out of the 
Twoleg nest, yapping furiously. It sprang up at the 
fence, and Firestar dug his claws hard into the wood as 


it shook. 

“Get lost, flea-pelt,” Cherry spat. “Go and drool over 
your Twolegs. Don’t worry,’ she added kindly to 
Firestar. “The idiot can’t climb.” 

Firestar felt as if he were the apprentice and the 
two kittypets were his mentors. “I’m fine with dogs, 
thanks,” he meowed. 

The dog went on barking as the three cats continued 
along the fence top. Firestar hid his relief as the noise 
died away behind them. 

Eventually Boris paused and looked down over a 
bigger garden than most of them, with a wide expanse 
of smooth grass bordered by masses of bright flowers. 
Firestar picked up a strong scent of cat. 

Cherry lifted her tail to point. “Over there.” 

She was pointing at some wooden Twoleg thing 
standing at the edge of the grass in front of the 
flowers. Lying on top of it was a shapeless heap of 
cream-and-brown fur. 

Cherry jumped down from the fence, landing in a 
clump of flowers; Firestar and Boris followed and 
skirted the edge of the flower border until they reached 
the wooden Twoleg thing. 


Two identical heads rose from the heap of fur. 
Firestar’s ears pricked with curiosity. He had never 
seen cats like these before. Their slender bodies were 
cream-colored, but their legs, tails, ears, and muzzles 
were brown, and they had the most brilliant blue eyes 
he had ever seen. 

One of them let out a weird high-pitched yowl. “Hi, 
Cherry. Hi, Boris.” 

“What do you want?” the other asked, in the same 
strange voice. 

“We’ve brought Firestar to meet you,’ Boris 
meowed. “This is Rose and this is Lily,’ he added to 
Firestar, flicking his tail at each cat in turn. 

“Greetings,” Firestar began. He felt oddly hesitant; 
these cats couldn’t possibly be SkyClan descendants. 
‘Tve come to tell you about the cats who used to live 
in the gorge...” 

The two cats listened to him in silence, their vivid 
eyes fixed disconcertingly on him. When he had 
finished, they turned the same intense stare on each 
other. 

“What do you think of that?” Rose asked. 

“Amazing!” Lily replied. 


“You will come to the meeting, won’t you?” Cherry 
urged them. “It’s going to be really great!” 

“What, us?” Rose’s eyes opened wide. “You’re 
joking, of course.” 

“Us live in a cave? With no warm blanket?” Lily 
added. “No creamed chicken?” 

“To chase mice and kill them?” Rose’s tongue 
rasped delicately over one brown paw. “How vulgar!” 

Moving as one, the two cats rested their heads on 
their paws again and closed their eyes. 

Cherry exchanged a glance with Boris, who gave a 
tiny shrug. “Sorry,” she mewed to Firestar. “It was 
worth a try.” 

“Don’t worry,’ Firestar told him. He couldn’t 
imagine these cats ever adjusting to the life of a Clan, 
but in case they were still listening he kept his thoughts 
to himself. 

Leaping back onto the fence, he was startled to see 
that the sun was starting to go down. They had spent 
most of the day in the Twolegplace and now he was 
ravenous. At the same moment he heard a distant 
yowling from a Twoleg several gardens away. 

“That’s one of our housefolk,” Boris told him. ““We’d 


better be going.” Sadly, he added, “We’ll miss them, 
you know.” 

“That’s not wrong, is it?” Cherry asked anxiously. 

“No,” Firestar replied, remembering his own pangs 
of homesickness. “It’s not wrong. But you have to 
choose.” 

“We’ve chosen,” Boris meowed determinedly, while 
Cherry whisked her tail and added, “Come on, 
Firestar! We’ll show you the best way out of here.” 


Padding back across the scrubland on his own, 
Firestar spotted movement underneath a thornbush. 
Cautiously he drew nearer, and recognized the brown 
rogue who had frightened off the sparrow when he 
first arrived in the gorge. The cat was crouched over a 
piece of fresh-kill, and looked up suspiciously as 
Firestar approached. 

“Hi.” Firestar tried to sound friendly. “Have you 
heard about the Clan of cats who used to live in the 
gorge?” 

The brown rogue gave a noncommittal grunt and 
went on eating. Firestar couldn’t be sure he was even 


listening as he told him about SkyClan and the meeting 
planned for the following night. 

“What do you think?” he asked. “Will you come?” 

The rogue swallowed the last mouthful of fresh-kill 
and cleaned his muzzle with one paw. “I’m fine on my 
own.” His eyes narrowed. “And I don’t want you 
ordering me around.” 

“Its not like that—” Firestar protested, but the 
rogue stalked off without letting him explain. Guilt 
gnawed at Firestar as he headed back to the gorge. 
Maybe if he hadn’t been so hostile when they first met, 
he could have persuaded the brown rogue to give 
SkyClan a chance. 

Finding the trail leading down the cliff face, he 
padded wearily along it to the warriors’ cave. Faint 
squeals of excitement rose from the bottom of the 
gorge; Firestar peered down to spot Sandstorm and 
Clover’s three kits batting something around at the 
water’s edge. Warmth flooded through him when he 
saw how happy and relaxed his mate looked as she 
played with the kits, happier than she had been since 
they left the forest. 

“Hi, Firestar.” Scratch’s voice interrupted his 


thoughts. “Sandstorm says you’re organizing a meeting 
to tell more cats about the new Clan. I could take you 
to some other rogues, if you like. They'll probably 
come if I ask them.” 

Firestar was glad Scratch was becoming more 
committed to SkyClan, but not sure he liked the tabby 
tom’s cool assumption of authority over the other 
rogues. Still, if they respected him, that would make 
Firestar’s task easier overall. 

“Okay, thanks,” he meowed. 

“Lets go then.” Scratch emerged from the 
warriors’ den and set off down the trail. 

What, now? Firestar wailed inwardly. I havent 
eaten all day! 

Sighing, he followed Scratch down the cliff face and 
caught up with him as he was speaking to Sandstorm. 
“T’m going to introduce Firestar to a few rogues,” he 
was telling her. 

“Great.” Sandstorm ducked her head as Rock 
sprang onto her back. “Get off!” she mewed, rolling 
over and padding gently at him with one paw, her 
claws sheathed. Rock just squeaked happily, and 
Sandstorm disappeared under a mound of fur as 


Bounce and Tiny jumped on her too. 

“You're obviously busy,’ Firestar murmured, 
amused. “TIl see you later.” 

Scratch and Firestar padded side by side across the 
rocky spur to the trees and undergrowth downstream. 
Firestar hadn’t visited this part of the territory since his 
meeting with Cherry and Boris, and his pelt prickled at 
the memory of being watched. Then he drew to a halt, 
his heart beginning to thump. This wasn’t just memory! 
The same sensations poured over him, and icy fear 
trickled through him from ears to tail tip. 

“What’s the matter?” Scratch, some way ahead, 
glanced over his shoulder. 

“Nothing.” Firestar’s voice shook, and he forced it 
to be steady. “I just thought we might stop and hunt. I 
haven’t had so much as the sniff of a mouse since this 
morning.” 

“Okay.” Scratch retraced his steps and stood tasting 
the air. 

“Do you smell anything...odd?” Firestar asked. He 
had picked up the same prey scent as before, masked 
by the sharp aroma of crushed leaves. 

Scratch paused, drew in more air, then shrugged. 


“Prey. Grass and leaves. Why?” 

“Nothing.” Firestar wanted Scratch to respect him, 
not think he was a coward looking for danger under 
every bush. “Let’s hunt.” 

Scratch stalked away into the bushes, and Firestar 
padded off in another direction. While he tried to find 
prey, his senses stayed alert for whatever hostile 
creature was watching him. 

Is it something to do with why SkyClan left the 
gorge? he wondered. Sky had been reluctant to 
answer any questions, but Firestar was certain that the 
old cat knew more than he was telling. P'U have to 
question him again, he decided. The future of the 
new Clan might be at risk if Sky insisted on keeping 
secrets about possible danger. 

Firestar stood in the shadows under a thornbush, 
looking out across a clear space in the midst of the 
undergrowth. Nothing stirred among the ferns and 
grasses. 

“Who are you?” he whispered. “What do you 
want?” 

There was no reply, only vicious hatred hurled at 
him with such force that it almost carried him off his 


paws. In the twilight he thought he could make out 
dark, glinting eyes. His pelt crawled. 

A rustling in a nearby bush made him jump, but it 
was only a vole, dashing out into the open space. 
Firestar leaped after it and snapped its neck. As he 
picked it up the scent masked everything else, and the 
sense of a hostile presence around him faded a little. 
Still, he pushed his way to the edge of the thicket and 
out into the open by the river before he crouched to eat 
his fresh-kill. 

Scratch was sittng a few tail-lengths farther 
downstream, cleaning his face and whiskers. “Are you 
ready?” he asked, drawing his paw over one ear. “It'll 
be dark soon.” 

Firestar gulped down the rest of the vole. “Okay, 
lead on.” 

The tabby rogue bounded alongside the river until he 
reached the fallen tree that Sky had used to cross a 
few days before. Leading Firestar over to the far bank, 
Scratch started to climb another trail that led up the 
cliff face on the opposite side. Firestar panted after 
him, wishing he had the rogue’s powerful haunches. 
Scratch was a true SkyClan cat! 


Firestar had never climbed the cliff on this side of 
the river before. At the top there was a wide stretch of 
grass that gave way to undergrowth and then trees. 
His spirits lifted as he padded with Scratch underneath 
the branches. This was more like his territory in the 
forest. 

“When we set the borders, we’ll have to make this 
part of SkyClan territory.” Firestar sniffed 
appreciatively. “There’s plenty of prey. Moss, too,” he 
added, flicking his ears toward thick cushions of it 
growing on the gnarled roots of an oak tree. 

Scratch gave him a sidelong glance. “Then you’d 
better convince the rogues who live here already.” 

Firestar realized he had a point. He didn’t want to 
start the new Clan by throwing other cats out of dens 
they had occupied for moons. 

Scratch wove his way through the trees until they 
came to a hollow tree trunk lying amid lush grass in the 
middle of a clearing. A pale, blurred shape was visible 
at the mouth of the tree trunk. As Firestar drew nearer 
he recognized the cream-and-brown tabby she-cat he 
had surprised in the scrubland near the Twolegplace. 

“Scratch?” Her ears twitched warily as the two 


toms drew nearer. “Who’s this with you?” 

“Hi,” Firestar meowed, slightly embarrassed, when 
Scratch had introduced him. “We met the other 
day....” 

The she-cat emerged from the end of the trunk; her 
amber gaze traveled over him steadily. “I remember 
you,” she murmured. “I’m sorry; I didn’t mean to snap 
at you like that. You gave me a fright, practically 
leaping on top of me.” 

Firestar dipped his head. “It was my fault.” 

“My name’s Leaf,” the she-cat continued, settling 
down in the long grass and waving her tail to invite 
Firestar to do the same. “What can I do for you?” 

Firestar crouched beside her, tucking his paws 
underneath him, while Scratch clawed his way to the 
top of the trunk and gazed out into the trees. Firestar 
wondered if he was keeping watch, though the hostile 
sensation had faded as soon as they crossed the river, 
and now he was aware of nothing more than the 
ordinary scents and sounds of a forest at dusk. 

“You know the place in the gorge where the river 
flows out?” he began. 

Leaf listened in silence to the story of how SkyClan 


had been forced to flee from the forest. “Why are you 
telling me?” she asked when he had finished. 

“The old SkyClan leader appeared to me in 
dreams,” Firestar explained. “He sent me to rebuild the 
Clan, and I’m looking for cats who might want to join.” 

Leaf looked startled, and for several heartbeats she 
didn’t reply, her gaze fixed on the shadows among the 
trees. “I don’t know...” she mewed eventually. “T like 
it here, and I’m fine on my own. Scratch, are you 
going to join?” 

Scratch padded along to the end of the trunk so he 
could look down at her. “I’m thinking about it. Cats 
living together could protect one another.” 

Leaf nodded. “That’s true. Living alone is especially 
hard for old cats and kits. You remember Scree?” she 
asked Scratch. 

“The old rogue who lived by the dead wilow tree?” 

“That’s right.” Sadness welled up in Leaf’s eyes. “I 
found him trying to fight off a fox. It turned tail when it 
saw me, but Scree was badly wounded. I stayed with 
him that night and tried to help him, but he died before 
morning.” She turned an intense gaze on Firestar. 
“That wouldn’t happen in a Clan, would it?” 


“Tt might,” Firestar answered honestly. “But mostly 
Clan cats don’t have to fight alone, and if they’re 
wounded we have a medicine cat to look after them.” 

Leaf gave her chest fur a couple of thoughtful licks. 

“We’re having a meeting tomorrow night,” Firestar 
told her. “Why don’t you come and find out more?” 

“All right,” she meowed. “TI come to the meeting. 
But I’m not promising anything else.” 

“I wouldn’t expect you to,” Firestar assured her. 

He glanced back as Scratch led him farther into the 
wood. He fiercely hoped that Leaf would decide to join 
SkyClan. She already seemed to be aware of how a 
Clan could take care of its weaker members. Any 
Clan would be glad to have her. 

Scratch led him along a narrow path that twisted 
among arching clumps of fern, the thick fronds 
blocking out the last of the daylight. Firestar picked up 
a strong cat scent before he saw anything; not long 
after, a bad-tempered hiss came out of the darkness. 

Just ahead of Firestar, Scratch meowed, “Hi, 
Tangle.” 

“This is my place,” a voice snapped. Peering over 
Scratch’s shoulder, Firestar made out a large tomcat 


with ragged tabby fur crouched among the roots of a 
tree. His fur was bristling and his amber eyes glared as 
if he were about to spring on them. “Go away!” 

Stepping around Scratch, Firestar dipped his head in 
greeting. “My name’s Firestar. I’m holding a meeting 
for all the cats who—” 

“I don’t like meetings,’ Tangle rasped. “Don’t like 
other cats much. Now go away, unless you want a 
clawed pelt.” 

Scratch touched Firestar on the shoulder. “He 
means it. We’d better go.” 

“Tomorrow night in the gorge, if you change your 
mind,” Firestar meowed quickly. 

Tangle unsheathed his claws. Scratch butted 
Firestar in the side with one shoulder and muttered, 
“Move!” To Tangle he added, “We’re going. See you 
around some time.” 

‘Not if I see you first,’ Tangle hissed, as Firestar 
and Scratch retreated into the ferns. 

“He’s not very friendly, is he?” Firestar commented 
when they were out of earshot. 

Scratch shrugged. “He never has been. I thought 
we’d better ask him, but I’m not surprised he wouldn’t 


listen.” 

They came to a narrow stream reflecting the pale 
evening sky as it wound through clumps of grass and 
watermint. Scratch leaped across and headed 
upstream until he came to a place where the bank 
overhung a narrow strip of pebbles. Once again 
Firestar picked up a strong scent of cat. 

Scratch halted. “Patch, are you there?” he meowed. 

A black-and-white head poked out from under the 
overhang. “Scratch, is that you?” 

His voice was cautious, but to Firestar’s relief he 
didn’t sound as unfriendly as Tangle. 

‘Tve brought another cat to see you,’ Scratch 
replied. “We’ve come to tell you about the cats who 
used to live in the gorge.” 

“Oh, them!” Patch came out of his den and stood on 
the strip of pebbles, looking up. “I know about them. I 
hope you haven’t brought that mad old rogue who’s 
always going on about them.” 

“No, he brought me.” Firestar stepped forward and 
looked into Patch’s gleaming green eyes. “And Sky 
isn’t mad—far from it. He has kept alive the memory 
of the Clan for many seasons.” Yet again he explained 


what he was trying to do. “SkyClan could be great 
again,” he finished. “We’re looking for strong cats to 
join, and Scratch thought you might be interested.” 

“It does get a bit lonely here sometimes,” Patch 
admitted, flicking his tail tip. “I could come to your 
meeting, I suppose, and have a look at the other cats 
who might be joining.” 

“Thank you,’ Firestar meowed. “You'll be 
welcome.” 

When they had said good-bye to Patch they started 
back toward the river. By now it was almost 
completely dark; little starlight penetrated the thick 
canopy of leaves. Scratch checked the opening of a 
hollow oak tree, but it was empty, and the cat scent 
that clung around it was stale. 

“That’s Rainfur’s den,” he remarked. “It looks like 
he hasn’t been around for a couple of days.” 

Firestar felt worn-out when they arrived back at the 
gorge. But if only a few of the cats they had seen 
today decided to join, they would have the beginnings 
of a Clan. But only the beginning, he told himself. 
There was a lot of work to do before SkyClan would 
truly live again. 


They had almost reached the path down the cliff 
when Sky let out a sharp exclamation and bounded 
ahead. Firestar caught up to find him talking to a 
tomcat whose pale gray pelt was marked with darker 
flecks. 

“This is Rainfur,’ he told Firestar. “We looked for 
you in your den,” he added to the gray tom. 

Rainfur flicked his ears. “I’ve been downstream. Is 
there a problem?” 

“No, just some news. Firestar, tell him what you told 
the others.” 

As Firestar launched into his story again he was 
aware that Rainfur was looking doubtful. He seemed 
like a strong, proud cat who would need a good reason 
before he gave up his independence. When Firestar 
invited him to the meeting, he was quite prepared for 
him to refuse. 

He was surprised when Rainfur nodded. “PI 
come,” the gray tom meowed, “but I’m not sure I like 
the idea. What will happen to cats who live here if they 
don t want to join?” 

“Nothing.” Firestar put as much conviction as he 
could into his voice. “We don’t want to quarrel with 


any cat.” 

Rainfur’s eyes narrowed. “This is a peaceful place. 
I wouldn’t want anything to spoil it.” Abruptly he 
turned and plunged into the undergrowth. 

“See you tomorrow!” Scratch called after him. 

Firestar thought over the gray tom’s words as he 
followed Scratch down the path toward the river. He 
wanted to include at least part of this wood in the new 
Clan’s territory, but he didn’t want to cause trouble 
with the rogues who decided to remain as they were. 

When Scratch reached the bottom of the cliff he 
turned toward the fallen tree trunk, but Firestar raised 
his tail to stop him and led the way upstream, intending 
to cross the river by the Rockpile. He still remembered 
the hostile force he had sensed in the undergrowth, and 
his belly lurched at the thought of encountering it again. 

Moonlight washed over the gorge as Firestar and 
Scratch crossed the river again. Firestar leaped from 
the last rock to the ground to see a pale shape rising up 
from the shadow of the rocks. 

“Sandstorm!” Firestar exclaimed. “I thought you’d 
be asleep. It’s late.” 

His mate padded up and touched noses with him. “I 


wanted to hear what happened.” 

‘TIl be off, then.” Scratch gave them both a wave 
of his tail, and bounded away to his cave. 

Remembering that Clover and her kits would be 
sleeping in the warriors’ den, Firestar settled down on 
a rock by the side of the river. Sandstorm crouched 
beside him, pressing her side warmly against his while 
he told her about meeting the rogues. 

“Then it looks as if SkyClan will return after all,” 
she mewed softly. 

“Yes, I think it will.” But in spite of his optimistic 
words, Firestar’s belly churned when he thought of the 
meeting to come. He was used to addressing 
ThunderClan as their leader, but he wasn’t the leader 
of the cats who would gather here on the following 
night. Would they listen to him? 

Am I doing the right thing? Shouldn’t there be a 
sign from StarClan, or from the SkyClan warrior 
ancestor? Where were all the other warrior ancestors 
of the shattered Clan? 

He sat gazing up at the brilliance of Silverpelt for a 
long time, until Sandstorm drew her tongue over his ear 
and urged him back to the cave to sleep. 


CHAPTER 24 


The half-moon shone coldly as Firestar padded down 
the stony trail to the Rockpile. No other cats were 
waiting for him, and he couldn’t make out any 
shadowy shapes approaching down the cliff or along 
the river. Only Sandstorm was with him, pausing 
beside him at the foot of the rocks to gaze at him with 
luminous green eyes. 

Firestar shifted from paw to paw, uneasy under the 
light of the half-moon. This was the time when 
medicine cats met to share dreams with StarClan. 
Somehow it felt wrong to be waiting for other cats to 
gather; the moon should have been full. Could that be a 
bad omen? 

Shaking off the premonition of disaster, Firestar let 
his gaze follow the twisting line of the river, glittering 
silver in the starlight. He wanted to leap to the top of 
the rocks and yowl the words that drew his own Clan 
to a meeting. But the familiar summons would mean 
nothing here, and he was not sure there would be any 
other cats to hear tt. 


Suppose no cat comes to the meeting? What will 1 
do then? 

“You'll be okay.” Sandstorm touched his shoulder 
with the tip of her tail. “It’s hard when you’re not these 
cats’ leader, but you still have to shape them into a 
Clan.” 

“Some of them,” Firestar corrected her. Even at his 
most optimistic, he couldn’t believe that all the cats he 
had spoken to would agree to jom the new Clan. The 
last thing he wanted was to force any cat; it was 
important that they joined because they wanted to, and 
were willing to live by the warrior code. 

Am I afraid they won t do what I want? No, it was 
more than that. The cats who joined SkyClan would 
have to be determined enough to survive after he and 
Sandstorm had returned to the forest. And they would 
succeed only if they were committed to the warrior 
code to the last claw and whisker. 

“Go on.” Sandstorm nudged him toward the 
Rockpile. “It’s time.” 

Firestar met her brilliant gaze for a couple of 
heartbeats, and drank in her sweet scent. New 
strength seemed to flow into him; he sprang upward 


and reached the top of the Rockpile in a few vigorous 
bounds. From this vantage point he could see farther 
downstream and up the gorge in the other direction, but 
there was still no sign of any cats, except for 
Sandstorm sitting patiently at the foot of the rocks. The 
half-moon floated higher in the sky. 

Where are you? Firestar thought desperately. 

Then he caught sight of a flicker of movement in the 
shadows near the cliff face. He heard the scrape of 
claws on rock, and Sky pulled himself onto the topmost 
boulder to stand beside him. 

“Greetings,” he meowed. “I see I’m in time for the 
meeting.” 

“You know about that?” Firestar asked, surprised. 

Sky dismissed the question with a flick of his ears. 
His gray pelt was silver in the moonlight, and his pale 
eyes shone. Firestar wondered if Sky had ways of 
knowing things that other cats couldn’t understand. 

“Do you want to speak to them first?” he suggested. 
“You're a descendant of SkyClan; they’ll listen to 
you.” 

“Listen to me? The crazy rogue who sits looking at 
the moon?” A rusty purr of amusement came from the 


old cat. “No, you must speak to them. More than 
anything, they need a leader to follow, and you can 
walk that path more easily than I.” 

“But I am not their leader...” Firestar started to 
protest. 

Sky looked deep into his eyes. “You can go back to 
your own Clan soon,” he promised. “But my Clan 
needs you now.” 

Firestar bowed his head. “I will try,” he whispered. 

Straightening up, he saw with a start of surprise that 
cats had begun to appear in the gorge. He spotted 
Scratch sitting at the foot of the rocks, half-hidden in 
shadows. Clover was guiding her kits down the stony 
trail and thrust them gently toward a niche in the 
Rockpile itself. All three kits were squeaking with 
excitement. 

“Hush,” Clover murmured. “We have to listen to 
Firestar. He’s going to tell us something very 
important.” 

An excited yowl drowned out the kits’ reply, and 
Firestar looked up to see Cherry and Boris slip over 
the edge of the cliff and pad rapidly down the trail until 
they reached the Rockpile. 


“Where are they all?” Boris asked, gazing around 
indignantly. “I thought they’d be here by now.” 

“I told you we should have gone to fetch Hutch,” 
Cherry meowed. “He’s probably curled up somewhere 
with his Twolegs. The fat, lazy—” 

“Quiet,” Sandstorm interrupted. “Look, some cat is 
coming now.” 

Firestar had already spotted the slender shape 
approaching from downstream: it was Lichen, a 
mottled brown she-cat he and Scratch had met the day 
before in the woods below the gorge. She halted, 
clearly nervous at seeing so many other cats waiting, 
and sat on a stone at the very edge of the river. 

Leaf and Rainfur arrived next, padding side by side 
as if they already knew each other; they spotted 
Scratch and went to join him at the base of the cliff. At 
the same time, Firestar glimpsed movement farther up 
the rock face; Hutch was picking his way cautiously 
down to join Cherry and Boris, and to Firestar’s 
surprise Oscar was close behind. The black kittypet 
halted on a ledge a couple of taillengths from the 
ground, and crouched there with his paws tucked 
under him. Last came Patch, bounding up the path 


beside the river as if he were afraid of being late; he 
gave a wary nod to Lichen, and sat near her at the 
edge of the gathering. 

Firestar’s pelt prickled as he felt the gaze of every 
cat tramed on him. He exchanged a glance with Sky, 
who stepped back and slid over the edge of the 
boulder, leaving Firestar alone at the top of the 
Rockpile. He straightened up, holding his head high, 
trying to show in every hair on his pelt the pride he felt 
in being a warrior. 

“Greetings,” he began, “and thanks to all of you for 
coming. Yesterday I told you about SkyClan, who used 
to live here in the gorge. I told you that I was sent here 
to rebuild that Clan.” 

“Get on with it, then.” A bored yowl came from the 
ledge where Oscar sat. 

Firestar’s ears twitched; had the black cat come just 
to disrupt the meeting? He ignored the comment and 
went on. 

“Living in a Clan, cats have the support of their 
Clanmates from birth to death. Mothers look after their 
kits, while warriors protect the nursing mothers and 
bring them food. When the kits reach the age of six 


moons, they become apprentices, with mentors who 
teach them to fight and hunt.” 

Excited squeals came from somewhere farther 
down the Rockpile. “I want to be an apprentice!” 

“So do I! Can we?” 

“I want to be an apprentice now!” 

“Hush.” Firestar heard Clover’s voice. “You'll have 
to go back to the cave if you can’t listen to Firestar 
quietly.” 

“When the apprentices are fully trained,” Firestar 
went on, “they become warriors. Warriors are the 
strength of a Clan. They must be ready to defend it 
against enemies like foxes or badgers or other cats.” A 
shiver passed through him as he remembered the battle 
to drive BloodClan out of the forest. “They must hunt 
for the Clan and make sure every cat is fed.” 

“And what do the warriors get out of it?” Rainfur 
called, rising to his paws. 

“Honor and respect,” Firestar replied. “The loyalty 
of friends. The satisfaction of knowing that they have 
served their Clanmates.” 

Rainfur gave him a brusque nod and sat down again. 
Firestar didn’t think he was very impressed with his 


answer. 

“When warriors grow old,” he continued, “they 
retire and join the Clan’s elders. Part of the 
apprentices’ duties is to look after them, to change 
their bedding and bring them fresh-kill They are 
honored because they have given their lives in the 
service of their Clan. 

“Every Clan has a leader and a deputy to oversee 
training, organize patrols, and decide what to do if 
danger threatens. Clan leaders are given nine lives by 
StarClan, so they can be first in every battle, and last 
to take fresh-kill if the Clan is hungry.” 

He caught a gleam of interest in Scratch’s eyes 
when he mentioned nine lives, and felt a prickle of 
unease. 

“And if any cat is sick or wounded,” he went on, 
“each Clan has a medicine cat to care for them. 
Medicine cats have special knowledge of healing 
herbs, and they guide their Clan through dreams sent 
from StarClan.” 

“That’s twice you’ve mentioned StarClan,”’ Leaf 
mewed. She had listened intently to everything Firestar 
had said, her shining gaze fixed on him. “What is 


that?” 

Firestar wasn’t surprised by the question, but he 
paused before answering. Was he right to tell these 
cats that the spirits of their warrior ancestors were 
watching over them? He wasn’t sure that StarClan 
walked in these skies, and he had seen only one 
SkyClan warrior ancestor. 

“You can see StarClan above you,” he explained, 
raising his tail to point at the glitter of Silverpelt. “Clan 
cats who die go to hunt with them—I don’t know how 
it is for cats who have no Clan.” 

An uncertain murmur rose from the cats below. He 
understood why this was difficult for them; everything 
else he had told them made practical sense, whether 
they approved of it or not, but he was asking them to 
take this on trust. 

Clover sprang to her paws. “Well, I’m going to join 
the new Clan,” she meowed. “Firestar, Sandstorm, and 
Scratch saved my kits from a fox. They’ll be safe if 
we're part of a Clan.” 

Firestar winced; catching Sandstorm’s eye, he saw 
the same misgivings reflected there. Clover was still 
thinking of SkyClan as something she could depend on, 


without considering how she could contribute to the life 
of the Clan. 

Sky jumped up to stand on the boulder beside 
Firestar. His pale eyes shone as he gazed down at the 
cats. A ripple of surprise passed through them as he 
began to speak in a low, husky voice. “I have kept 
alive the memory of SkyClan all my life,” he rasped. “I 
know that my ancestors have been waiting to see the 
Clan rebuilt, but sometimes I despaired that it could 
ever come to be.” 

Firestar still wasn’t sure that the cats below 
understood the meaning of warrior ancestors, but no 
cat rose to challenge Sky. Instead, Firestar could see 
respect dawning in their eyes. This wasn’t the cranky 
elder they had dismissed as mad; this was a cat whose 
wisdom and experience made him worth listening to. 

“Now you have a leader who has come a long way 
to rebuild SkyClan,” the old cat went on. “Listen to him 
well before you decide. He will show you a way of life 
that gives honor to every cat.” 

Yes, I’m a leader, Firestar thought with a sudden 
stab of panic. But I’m not their leader. He was a 
stranger to the gorge, and the cats here were unlikely 


to listen to him with the same respect they were 
beginning to show Sky. They were murmuring among 
themselves again, and so far none of the newcomers 
had committed themselves to joining SkyClan. Firestar 
realized that the meeting could be about to break up in 
failure. 

“We’re going to join the Clan!” Cherry sprang 
excitedly to her paws. “Come on; it’s going to be 
great!” 

“Count me in too.” Scratch turned to Firestar and 
spoke directly to him. “It makes sense that cats are 
stronger when they’re together.” 

Instantly Firestar felt more confident. He had hoped 
Scratch would make this decision; he was a powerful 
cat, and while he still needed to learn to live by the 
warrior code, there wasn’t much any cat could teach 
him about hunting and fighting. But had Scratch 
decided to join because he wanted to become a nine- 
lived leader? 

“Thank you,” Firestar meowed, pushing away his 
concerns. “SkyClan welcomes you.” 

“Well, I won’t join.” It was Lichen who spoke, 
politely but with no hesitation in her voice. “I’m sorry, 


but I don’t feel comfortable around so many cats. I like 
my privacy too much.” 

“That’s your decision.” Firestar was disappointed; 
he liked what he had seen of the mottled she-cat. “And 
if you change your mind, you know where we are.” 

“Thanks, but I won’t. I wish you well, though.” With 
a dip of her head she turned and padded away down 
the riverbank. 

Rainfur watched her go, then rose to his paws. “T 
haven’t heard anything that makes me want to join,” 
he growled. “All I can see is, other cats will be telling 
me what to do all the time.” 

“That’s not how it works—” Firestar protested. But 
part of him could understand why the gray tom felt like 
that. Firestar had no right to tell these cats how to live 
their lives; why should they listen when so far they had 
gotten on perfectly well without him? 

‘T’d sooner hunt for myself,” Rainfur went on. “I 
don’t need SkyClan.” 

“T’m sorry,’ Firestar mewed. “SkyClan could use 
you.” 

Rainfur’s pelt bristled. “I don’t want to be used, 
thanks,’ he spat. Whirling around, he bounded 


downstream after Lichen. 

Firestar stared after him, angry that he had spoken 
so clumsily. Then he noticed that Leaf was gazing up 
at him with sympathy in her eyes. 

‘Don’t mind Rainfur,’ she meowed. “He always 
was a bit touchy. Maybe we can persuade him later, 
when he sees how the Clan works.” 

Firestar’s ears twitched. “We?” 

“Yes, I'll join,” Leaf assured him. “If the Clan really 
works how you say it will, then cats will have a 
purpose. We’ll be more than just rogues, just living to 
stay alive.” 

Firestar was impressed. Her words might have 
come from a true Clan cat. He felt a purr rising in his 
chest. 

“Thank you,” he mewed. Glancing at the cats who 
so far had not decided—Patch, Hutch, and Oscar—he 
added, “All I can tell you is that SkyClan lived here 
once and could live here again, following the warrior 
code for the benefit of every cat. Do you want to be 
part of it?” 

Patch rasped his tongue over his chest fur. “Okay, 
PI give it a go.” 


Cherry gave Hutch a nudge with her shoulder. 
“Come on, Hutch. What about it?” 

Hutch looked up at Firestar, embarrassment in his 
amber eyes. “I'd like to, I really would, but I’m afraid I 
won’t be good enough at all this hunting and fighting. 
I’ve always been a kittypet.” 

“We’re kittypets too,” Boris pointed out. “Firestar 
can teach you all that stuff.” 

“If you join us, you'll be very welcome,” Firestar 
told him. 

The tabby tom nodded. “Okay, then. I’d miss Cherry 
and Boris if they went off without me.” 

Firestar flicked his ears toward the one cat who so 
far had not spoken. “What about you, Oscar?” 

The black kittypet rose slowly from the ledge where 
he had been crouching. “You don’t think I came here 
to join, do you? Why would I leave a couple of 
perfectly good housefolk who give me everything I 
want? I didn’t spend moons training them for nothing.” 

“Why are you here, then?” Boris demanded. 

Oscar’s jaws stretched in an insolent yawn. “I just 
wanted to find out what stupid ideas you’d come up 
with. And they are stupid. You’re all mouse-brained.” 


With a flick of his tail he set off up the trail, back 
toward the cliff top. 

“Mouse-brained yourself!” Cherry yowled after 
him. 

Sky padded forward to the edge of the Rockpile and 
looked down at the remaining cats. “SkyClan lives 
again!” he announced. Raising his head to the misty 
half-moon, he yowled, “SkyClan! SkyClan!” 

“SkyClan! SkyClan!” the cats down in the gorge 
replied. 

Firestar shivered from ears to tail tip. What had 
once seemed so impossible, so far off, was now real. 
The cats who stood around the Rockpile, yowling to 
the stars, were the beginnings of a new Clan to replace 
the one lost so long ago. 

Then cold claws seemed to grip his heart. That 
sense of anger and hatred he had felt in the 
undergrowth downstream washed over him again. He 
raised his head to scan the bushes on the cliff top, and 
was sure he could spot glittermg eyes among the 
branches. 


CHAPTER 25 


The following day dawned clear and cool. Firestar 
stepped out onto the ledge outside the warriors’ cave 
to see Patch and Leaf scrambling over the spur of 
rock on their way upstream. After the meeting, all the 
new Clan cats had returned to their own homes; one of 
the first tasks would be to collect more bedding and 
sort out the dens so that the caves in the gorge could 
become a real Clan camp. 

Sandstorm joined him, yawning and giving one ear a 
vigorous scratch with her hind paw. “We’ll have to 
move Clover down to the nursery,’ she mewed, 
flicking her ears toward where the mother cat and her 
kits were sleeping against the far wall of the cave. 
“There won’t be room in here once the warriors 
arrive.” 

“We need a den for the apprentices, too,” Firestar 
pointed out. “And the elders, the leader, the medicine 
cat...” 

“Well, we’ll have one elder, when Sky moves in with 
us.” Sandstorm blinked thoughtfully. “But there’s no 


leader yet, apart from you.” 

“No! Pm leader of ThunderClan. StarClan will 
show us which cat is meant to be leader of SkyClan.” 

“And a medicine cat,” Sandstorm added. “You can’t 
have a Clan without a medicine cat.” 

Firestar murmured agreement. He suspected that 
finding a medicine cat could be even harder than 
finding a leader, and he hadn’t begun to tackle that 
problem yet. Until the night before, he hadn’t been 
certain that there would be a Clan at all. 

He had to push his worries to the back of his mind 
as Leaf and Patch came into view a little way down 
the stony trail, calling out a greeting. Patch looked 
nervous, but Leaf’s ears were pricked with 
anticipation. A heartbeat or two later Firestar heard 
pawsteps from up above, and Cherry, Boris, and Hutch 
appeared from the cliff top. 

“We're ready for our hunting lesson,’ Boris 
meowed, his eyes shining. 

“Thats good.” Sandstorm twitched her tail 
approvingly. “We’ll be able to take out two full 
patrols.” 

“Can we lead them?” Cherry bounced forward to 


stand in front of Firestar. “Please! We know all the 
good places for prey.” 

“No, you’re not warriors yet.” Firestar didn’t want 
to dampen the young cats’ enthusiasm, but they had to 
get used to the way things were done in a Clan. “Don’t 
worry,” he added when Cherry flattened her ears in 
disappointment. “You'll be leading patrols before you 
know it.” 

“Boris and Leaf, you come with me,” Sandstorm 
mewed. “We’ll pick up Scratch on the way, and see 
what we can find in the bushes downstream. Is that 
okay with you, Firestar?” 

“Fine. The rest of us can hunt on the cliff top.” 

When Sandstorm had left with her patrol, Firestar 
led Cherry, Hutch, and Patch up the trail and through 
the bushes on the edge of the cliff. The sky was bright 
where the sun would rise, but there was still no sign of 
movement from the Twolegplace. 

“Let’s head that way,” Firestar suggested, waving 
his tail toward the huge Twoleg barn. “I haven’t tried 
hunting there yet.” 

Not much later he was starting to think he had made 
the wrong decision. The trees and bushes near the 


fence of the huge nest were oddly lacking in prey. The 
scent of crow-food and rats from the fence made it 
almost impossible to taste anything else on the air. 

“Sandstorm’s patrol will catch much more,” Cherry 
muttered. “And Boris will never let me hear the end of 
it!” 

Almost ready to give up and go somewhere else, 
Firestar stopped trying to track down prey to give 
Hutch and Patch their first lesson in the hunter’s 
crouch and the right way to stalk. Hutch concentrated 
very hard, but found it difficult to get his haunches into 
the proper position, while Patch had it almost right the 
first time. Of course, the rogue cats had been hunting 
for themselves since they were kits; they would need 
to learn only the skills of hunting in a group before they 
were as good as any forest warrior. 

“Okay,” Firestar meowed. “I want you to imagine 
that there’s prey under that gorse bush over there.” He 
waved his tail to show them which bush he meant. 
“Let me see you stalk up to it.” 

All three cats set off. Watching them critically, 
Firestar admired Cherry’s graceful, controlled prowl; 
she had learned a lot since she first tracked him in the 


undergrowth downstream. Patch was slinking along 
with his belly fur brushing the ground, and even Hutch 
seemed to have gotten his paws under control. 

“Keep going; you’re domg great,’ Firestar 
encouraged them. 

Suddenly Patch sprang up with a hiss of 
astonishment. One paw flashed out, and Firestar 
spotted a small brown shape as it was tossed in the arr. 
Patch grabbed it as it fell to the ground again. He 
turned back to Firestar with a mouse dangling limply 
from his jaws. 

“Well done!” Firestar meowed. “First catch to you.” 

“I think it was half-asleep,’ Patch admitted, 
dropping the mouse. “It never had a chance.” 

“Fresh-kill is fresh-kill, however you catch tt.” 
Firestar began to scrape at the ground with his hind 
paws. “We’ll bury it now, and take it back with us 
when we’re ready.” 

Which wont be long, he promised himself. He 
didn’t like this part of the territory; it was too quiet, too 
bare of prey, and something about the huge Twoleg 
barn made him uncomfortable. 

“Let’s see your crouches again,” he mewed. 


Hutch had drawn a little way ahead of Cherry; the 
tabby kittypet had nearly reached the gorse bush when 
a squirrel started up from underneath the branches and 
raced for the safety of a clump of beech trees. 
Startled, Hutch waited a heartbeat too long before 
chasing after it. 

“PI get it!” Cherry yowled, streaking past Hutch 
with her tail streaming out. 

Hutch halted, looking bewildered. 

The squirrel reached the tree with Cherry hard on 
its paws and swarmed up the trunk until it reached the 
lowest branch. 

“Got you!” Cherry hurled herself into the air. 

But she had misjudged the leap. A mouse-length 
short, her paws struck a clump of leaves and she hung 
there, clawing frantically, kicking her hind legs and 
scattering scraps of leaf everywhere, until she 
managed to haul herself up onto the branch. 
Meanwhile the squirrel had vanished among the leaves 
farther up the tree. 

“Mouse dung!” Cherry spat. 

Firestar strolled to the foot of the tree and looked up 
at her. Privately he thought the young tortoiseshell’s 


failure would do her no harm—she needed to learn not 
to show off—but he wouldn’t say anything to upset 
her. She looked frustrated enough. 

“Are you okay?” he asked. 

“No! Stupid squirrel—I should have caught it.” 

“It was my fault.” Hutch padded up beside Firestar. 
“I should have been a bit quicker.” 

“Don’t worry.” Firestar touched his shoulder with 
the tip of his tail. “This is only your first lesson. You’re 
doing fine.” 

Hutch looked unconvinced. “I feel like I’m letting 
you all down. No cat will want to hunt for me if I can’t 
hunt for myself.” 

Firestar let his tail rest on the tabby tom’s shoulder 
for a moment longer. “That’s not how a Clan works,” 
he explained. “You'll be allowed your share of the 
fresh-kill pile like any other warrior. And you will hunt 
for yourself, and the rest of us too, before very long.” 
Looking from Hutch’s disappointed face to Cherry’s 
frustrated one, he turned and signaled to Patch with his 
tail. “Fetch that mouse,” he called. “We’ll see if there’s 
more prey nearer the cliff top.” 


Just as Firestar had hoped, there was better hunting 
in the bushes that edged the cliff. Before very long, the 
patrol was able to return to the gorge with a good haul 
of prey. Hutch was bursting with pride at bringing 
down his first sparrow, with a leap that proved the 
tabby kittypet bore SkyClan blood. 

His jaws full of fresh-kill, Firestar led the way down 
into the gorge. The sun was up, and warm, honey- 
colored light pooled on the rocks and dazzled on the 
smooth curve of water where it poured out of the 
darkness. Firestar and Sandstorm had kept a small 
fresh-kill pile near the entrance to the warriors’ cave, 
but that wouldn’t do now. They would need to look for 
a sheltered spot near the waterside, where every cat 
could come and eat. 

As he padded down the trail, Firestar saw that 
Sandstorm and her patrol had also returned. He 
paused, stiffening. Close to the Rockpile, Sandstorm 
and Scratch stood facing each other with their neck fur 
fluffed out, as if they were quarreling. Leaf and Boris 
looked on anxiously, while Clover, at the water’s edge, 
gathered her kits to her. 

Firestar bounded down the last few tail-lengths of 


the trail. Sandstorm had deposited her patrol’s fresh-kill 
under an overhang at the bottom of the Rockpile; he 
added his own before turning to the two cats. 

“And I’m teling you that’s not the way it’s done,” 
Sandstorm growled, her green eyes furious. “In a Clan, 
the elders and the nursing queens always eat first.” 

Scratch lashed his tail. “That’s mouse-brained! It’s 
the warriors who catch the prey!” 

“There’s no need to argue,” Clover interrupted in a 
soft voice. “I don’t mind. You can eat first. There’s 
plenty for every cat.” 

“That’s not the point,” Firestar intervened. 

Sandstorm’s head whipped around; she had 
obviously been so intent on Scratch that she hadn’t 
heard Firestar approach. When she saw him, the fur 
on her shoulders began to lie flat. “Thank StarClan 
you’re here! Tell this stupid furballL—” 

Firestar lifted his tail to silence her. Hurling insults 
wasn’t going to help. To Scratch he mewed, 
“Sandstorm’s right. Just because warriors are strong 
enough to hunt doesn’t mean they have the right to eat 
first.” 

“That’s not what I meant,” Scratch protested, his 


green eyes wide with indignation. “The Clan depends 
on its warriors. They should be fed first so that they’re 
always strong enough to deal with unexpected 
trouble.” With a hostile glance at Sandstorm he added, 
“Some cats won’t listen.” 

To Firestar’s relief, Sandstorm didn’t respond. 
Brushing her pelt reassuringly, he padded forward to 
face the ginger tom. “Yes, it’s important for a Clan to 
have strong warriors. But the warrior code isn’t just 
based on what is practical. Honor matters equally as 
much. Elders and nursing queens must be shown 
respect, because without them the Clan wouldn’t 
survive.” 

“SkyClan hasn t survived,” Scratch muttered darkly. 

“True, but that’s no reason to cast the warrior code 
aside. Whatever happened to the original SkyClan 
cats’—Firestar wished that he knew what had 
happened to SkyClan, but there was no time to think of 
that now—‘it wasn’t the fault of the elders or the 
nursing queens. We must continue to honor them.” 

Scratch hesitated. Then his head whipped around 
and he glared at Clover. “Okay. Eat.” 

Looking very embarrassed, Clover darted past him 


to the fresh-kill pile, snatched a blackbird, and carried it 
to where her kits were crouched by the side of the 
water. 

Sandstorm let out a sigh, and padded off to say 
something quietly to Leaf, who rested her tail tip 
sympathetically on the ginger she-cat’s shoulder. 
Firestar signaled to the other cats to come and take 
prey from the pile, though he didn’t have much appetite 
himself. He couldn’t help wondering how many more 
arguments there would be before Scratch and the 
other cats really understood the warrior code. 


Sunhigh had come and gone while the cats, full-fed, 
drowsed in the sunlight or withdrew to the cool shade 
of the caves. Every cat in the new Clan was there; 
Firestar had even spotted Sky padding quietly down the 
gorge and curling up in the shadow of a thorn tree. 

Firestar lay beside Sandstorm, his tongue rasping 
over her shoulder in long, rhythmic strokes. 
Sandstorm’s eyes were green slits, and a purr rumbled 
deep in her chest. 

‘Tm sorry I lost my temper with Scratch,’ she 


murmured. “You handled him much better.” 

Firestar gave her another lick before replying. 
“Scratch is going to make a fine warrior. But he has to 
see that the warrior code is about more than just 
strength. He’ll learn, given time.” 

Sandstorm sighed. “Just as Clover has to learn that 
a Clan is more than protection.” She butted Firestar’s 
shoulder affectionately with her head. “We’ll have to 
show them.” 

“True. And I think I know how to start.” 

He rose to his paws and arched his back in a long 
stretch. Then he bounded up to the top of the Rockpile 
and yowled out the familiar words: “Let all cats old 
enough to catch their own prey join here beneath the 
Rockpile for a Clan meeting!” 

Sky started and sat up straight, gazing around as if 
he wasn’t sure where the call had come from. Leaf 
and Patch, who had been drowsing together at the 
water’s edge, raised their heads, then sat up to listen. 
Scratch popped his head out of his cave. Cherry and 
Boris came racing down the trail from the cliff top, 
while Clover’s kits bundled excitedly out of the 
warriors’ den and bounced down to the gorge, followed 


more slowly by their mother. Within a few heartbeats 
the whole Clan had gathered and sat around the 
Rockpile looking up at Firestar. 

“Cats of SkyClan,” Firestar began. Pride rippled 
through his fur as he addressed these cats by their 
Clan name for the first time. “Last night you 
committed yourselves to this Clan and the warrior 
code. Today the Clan will honor you with your Clan 
names. Scratch, Leaf, Hutch, Clover, and Patch, 
please come to stand at the bottom of the Rockpile.” 

Exchanging bewildered glances, the five cats rose to 
their paws and drew closer to the bottom of the rocks. 
Clover’s kits tried to follow her, and Sandstorm gently 
halted them with a sweep of her tail. 

Firestar picked his way down the rocks to stand in 
front of the group of cats. There had never been a 
warrior ceremony like this before, and he had to get it 
right so that it had meaning with their warrior 
ancestors—if there were any watching. 

“I, Firestar, leader of ThunderClan and mentor to 
SkyClan, call upon their warrior ancestors to look 
down upon these cats,” he began. “They have a true 
desire to learn the ways of your noble warrior code, 


and I commend them to you as warriors in their turn.” 
Padding up to Scratch, he went on, “Scratch, do you 
promise to uphold the warrior code and to protect and 
defend this Clan, even at the cost of your life?” 

Scratch hesitated; Sandstorm slipped up behind him 
and whispered, “Say, ‘I do.’” 

“I do,’ Scratch meowed, his eyes fixed steadily on 
Firestar. 

“Then by the powers of StarClan I give you your 
warrior name. Scratch, from this moment you will be 
known as Sharpclaw. StarClan trusts you will give all 
your courage and strength to the new Clan.” 

Sharpclaw blinked, then dipped his head. Firestar 
bent to rest his muzzle between the new warrior’s 
ears. 

“Lick his shoulder,’ Sandstorm directed. 

Sharpclaw obeyed, and stepped back. 

“Now we welcome him to the Clan by calling out his 
name,” Sandstorm meowed. “Sharpclaw! Sharpclaw!” 

The rest of the Clan echoed her, Cherry yowling, 
“Sharpclaw!” at the top of her voice and bouncing up 
and down enthusiastically. 

Firestar gave Patch the warrior name of Patchfoot, 


and Clover became Clovertail. When he turned to 
Hutch, he saw doubt and fear in the kittypet’s eyes, 
and was half-afraid that when he was asked to take 
the oath he would back out. 

“Hutch, do you promise to uphold the warrior code 
and to protect and defend this Clan, even at the cost of 
your life?” 

Hutch swallowed; his voice shook as he replied, “T 
do.” 

“Then by the powers of StarClan I give you your 
warrior name. Hutch, from this moment you will be 
known as Shortwhisker. StarClan trusts you will give 
all your strength and wisdom to the building of this new 
Clan.” 

As he spoke, he saw the doubt fade from 
Shortwhisker’s eyes, to be replaced by determination. 
Firestar knew he would be a fine warrior when he had 
learned to trust himself. 

Finally he turned to Leaf. She had waited quietly, 
acknowledging each of her new Clanmates by their 
warrior names, and he was struck by the intentness in 
her eyes when he spoke to her. There was no 
hesitation as she meowed, “I do.” 


“Then by the powers of StarClan I give you your 
warrior name. Leaf, from this moment you will be 
known as Leafdapple. StarClan trusts you will give all 
your intelligence and loyalty to the building of this new 
Clan.” 

Leafdapple’s amber eyes glowed as Firestar rested 
his muzzle on her head. 

When the Clan had finished calling Leafdapple by 
her new name, Firestar raised his tail to beckon Cherry 
and Boris. Cherry dashed forward at once, eyes 
sparkling with eagerness, but Boris was hesitant, as if 
he realized more clearly than his sister what a massive 
step they were about to take. 

“Tt’s time to add two new apprentices to the Clan,” 
Firestar mewed. “From this day forward,” he began, 
touching Cherry on the shoulder with his tail tip, “this 
apprentice will be known as Cherrypaw. Sharpclaw, 
you have much to teach an apprentice, so you will be 
her mentor.” 

Cherrypaw’s head whipped around and she stared 
at Sharpclaw. “Does that mean I have to do what he 
says?” 

“Yes, it does,’ Sandstorm replied, an edge to her 


voice. “Touch noses with him.” 

Sharpclaw stepped forward; Cherrypaw stretched 
out her neck, gave him a quick dab on the nose, and 
moved back again. 

‘What if she doesn t do what I tell her?” Sharpclaw 
asked, eyeing his new apprentice. “What do I do 
then?” 

Sandstorm’s eyes sparkled. “Whatever you like.” 

“Within reason,” Firestar added hastily, twitching his 
ears at his mate. “To start with, you’d better ask me or 
Sandstorm if you need to punish her. We’ll tell you 
what usually happens in our own Clan.” 

Turning to Boris, who had been listening 
apprehensively, he touched the young tabby on his 
shoulder. “From this day forward, this apprentice will 
be known as Sparrowpaw. Leafdapple, you will be his 
mentor and share your experience with him.” 

The newly named Sparrowpaw stepped forward to 
touch noses with Leafdapple, but for a heartbeat the 
she-cat held back, her eyes troubled. 

“T’m sorry, Firestar, but I don’t think I can do this,” 
she meowed. “I’m so new to living in a Clan. How can 
I train an apprentice properly?” 


“Don’t worry,” he replied. “Sandstorm and I will 
help you. For a while, every cat will be learning 
together.” 

Relief shone in Leafdapple’s eyes, and she stepped 
forward to touch noses with Sparrowpaw. “PI do my 
best,” she promised him. 

The rest of the Clan welcomed the two apprentices 
by calling their names, while Cherrypaw and 
Sparrowpaw listened with shining eyes. 

“What about us?” Bounce sprang to his paws from 
where he sat beside his mother Clovertail. “Why can’t 
we be apprentices?” 

“We want proper Clan names, too,” added his sister 
Tiny. 

“You can’t be apprentices until you’re six moons 
old,” Firestar explained. 

“But that’s ages away!” Rock complained, lashing 
his stumpy black tail. 

Firestar exchanged a glance with Sandstorm, seeing 
amusement glimmering in her green eyes. 

“All right,” he meowed, beckoning with his tail. 
“Come here. You can’t be apprentices yet, but you can 
have Clan names.” 


The three kits dashed toward him, falling over their 
own paws in their eagerness. When they stood in front 
of him, quivering with excitement, Firestar touched 
each with his tail on the top of the head. “From now 
on, these kits will be known as Rockkit, Bouncekit, and 
Tinykit.” 

“Rockkit! Bouncekit! Tinykit!” Leafdapple called, 
and the rest of the Clan echoed her with warm purrs 
of affection. 

The three kits marched back to their mother, their 
tails high in the air. 

“What about a Clan leader?” Sharpclaw asked. 
“You're not going to stay here forever, are you?” 

Firestar wondered if Sharpclaw was nurturing hopes 
of being SkyClan’s new leader. He was strong, he 
knew the area well, and he wasn’t afraid to take 
authority. But Firestar didn’t feel confident about 
deciding which cat should lead the new Clan—that 
was a job for their warrior ancestors, surely? 

“Tt doesn’t work like that,” he told Sharpclaw. “It’s 
not my job to choose a leader. StarClan will do that.” 

Sharpclaw’s eyes narrowed and his voice was 
disbelieving as he asked, “How?” 


“They’ll send us a sign,” Firestar explained. 

Sharpclaw let out a snort, but didn’t say any more. 

“Now I have one more name to give,” Firestar 
announced, relieved that the question of leadership was 
over for the moment. He turned to where Sky sat in 
the shade of the cliff. “Sky, come here, please.” 

The old cat rose to his paws and padded forward. 
When Sky stood in front of him, Firestar bowed his 
head in respect for everything the old cat had done to 
preserve the memory of SkyClan. 

“I, Firestar, leader of ThunderClan and mentor to 
SkyClan, call upon his warrior ancestors to look down 
upon this cat,’ he meowed. “He has served the 
warrior code throughout his life, and it is thanks to him 
that this Clan stands here today. For that reason, I ask 
no promise from him, for he is already a true warrior. 
Sky, from this day forward you will be known as 
Skywatcher, in memory of your faith and your 
dedication to SkyClan.” 

A glow of delight flared in the old cat’s pale eyes. 

“Skywatcher! Skywatcher!” 

Skywatcher gazed deep into Firestar’s eyes. “Thank 
you. I never dreamed this would happen. I...I hope my 


ancestors can see me now.” 

“T’m sure they can,” Firestar told him. 

Drawing closer, Skywatcher murmured in his ear, 
“Come to my den tonight. There’s something I must 
tell you.” 


Moonlight silvered the rocks as Firestar padded up 
the gorge. He couldn’t shake off a feeling of unease, 
but this time it had nothing to do with sensations of 
hostility or a glimpse of bright, cold eyes in the 
undergrowth. What did the old cat want to tell him that 
couldn’t have been said at the meeting by the 
Rockpile? Why had he insisted on returning to his den 
under the tree roots, instead of moving in with the 
Clan, where he could be treated with all the respect 
that an elder deserved? 

He found the twisting path behind the boulder and 
began to follow it up the side of the gorge. A chill 
breeze ruffled his fur, a reminder that the warm days 
of greenleaf must soon come to an end. As he padded 
up the steep path, he spotted the blur of a gray pelt 
beneath the thorn tree, and found Skywatcher 


crouching at the mouth of his den with his paws tucked 
under him. 

“You asked me to come.” 

For a few heartbeats Skywatcher held him with 
eyes like deep pools of water. “I want to thank you,” 
he meowed solemnly. “You have rebuilt the lost Clan.” 

“There’s no need for thanks,” Firestar replied. “I did 
only what I had to.” 

Skywatcher nodded, blinking thoughtfully. “Do you 
think you have been a good leader for ThunderClan?” 

The question startled Firestar, and at first he wasn’t 
sure how to reply. “I don’t know,” he mewed at last. 
“It hasn’t been easy, but I’ve always tried to do what 
is right for my Clan.” 

“No cat would doubt your loyalty,’ Skywatcher 
agreed. “But how far would it go?” 

Puzzled, Firestar stayed silent. Why was 
Skywatcher asking him about ThunderClan? 

“There are difficult times ahead,” Skywatcher went 
on, “and your loyalty will be tested to the utmost. 
Sometimes the destiny of one cat is not the destiny of 
the whole Clan.” 

Firestar tipped his head to one side. Nothing 


Skywatcher said was making sense. Was ThunderClan 
in trouble? He had left them in peace, but that was 
several moons ago. What would happen to a leaderless 
Clan with rivals like ShadowClan around? 

Skywatcher rose to his paws; his eyes blazed with 
reflected moonlight. For a heartbeat Firestar was sure 
he could see the glitter of stars tangled in his fur. The 
old cat’s voice was soft, but charged with power, 
stronger than it had been before. 

“Your Clan is safe for now. But there will be three, 
kin of your kin, who hold the power of the stars in their 
paws.” 

Firestar stared at the old warrior. “I don’t 
understand. Why are you telling me this?” 

There was no reply, except for a slight twitch of 
Skywatcher’s ears. 

“You must tell me more!” Firestar protested. “How 
can I decide what I should do if you don’t explain?” 

The old cat took a deep breath, but when he spoke it 
was only to say, “Farewell, Firestar. In seasons to 
come, remember me.” He waved his tail, a clear 
indication that Firestar should go. 

Firestar gazed at him helplessly for a moment longer 


before turning and stumbling down the path away from 
the den. His whole body felt cold. Skywatcher’s words 
had the unmistakable ring of a prophecy from 
StarClan, but Firestar had no idea what they referred 
to. 

There will be three, kin of your kin, who hold the 
power of the stars in their paws. 

Firestar had no kin in ThunderClan except for 
Cloudtail, so who could the three be? 

As he approached the Rockpile, listening to the 
unending murmur of the river, he paused and raised his 
eyes to Silverpelt. In the forest, the light of his warrior 
ancestors was a comfort to him, but he could not even 
be sure that they walked these strange skies. 

“Can you hear me?” he whispered. “Bluestar, 
Spottedleaf, Yellowfang, if you are listening, please 
help me keep ThunderClan safe from what lies 
ahead.” 


CHAPTER 26 


Firestar slept fitfully and woke at dawn to find that 
clouds had covered the sky. A stiff breeze was 
blowing, and a few leaves whirled down from the 
bushes on the cliff top. Leaf-fall could not be far away. 
Giving himself a quick grooming, he tried to forget his 
fears from the night before. The meaning of 
Skywatcher’s prophecy was hidden in the moons to 
come. He could do nothing about it now. 

Clovertail and her kits had finally settled in the 
nursery, leaving room for the new SkyClan warriors to 
share the big cave with Firestar and Sandstorm. 
Restless to be doing something, Firestar padded across 
the cave and prodded Sharpclaw with one paw. 

“Wha...?” Sharpclaw raised his head, blinking. 

“Time for a dawn patrol,” Firestar announced. 

Sharpclaw groaned, then hauled himself out of his 
nest and shook scraps of moss and fern from his pelt 
while Firestar roused Leafdapple. 

“We’ll fetch Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw and patrol 
the borders,” he explained. 


Leafdapple looked puzzled. “We haven’t got any 
borders.” 

“We’re going to set some.” 

He led the way down the trail to the cave they had 
chosen for the apprentices’ den, wondering how 
Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw had coped with their first 
night away from their Twolegs. He remembered 
settling them in the night before, helping them to carry 
moss up from the cave beside the river and arrange it 
into comfortable nests. 

Sparrowpaw’s eyes had grown wide with anxiety as 
the sun set and night crept into the gorge. “I wonder 
how our housefolk are feeling,” he muttered. 

Cherrypaw gave him a comforting lick. “They’ll be 
okay, and so will we. We’re Clan cats now.” 

But Firestar had noticed the tip of her tail twitching, 
and knew she wasn’t as confident as she pretended. 

When he and the other warriors arrived outside their 
cave that morning, Cherrypaw shot outside, her fur 
sticking all over the place. 

“Are we going hunting?” she demanded. “I’m 
starving!” 

“Elders and nursing queens eat first,’ Sharpclaw 


reminded her, with a glance at Firestar. 

“That’s right, but Sandstorm will lead a hunting 
patrol later on for the rest of the Clan,’ Firestar 
mewed. “We’re the dawn patrol, and we can pick up 
some prey on the way.” 

“Are we allowed to do that?” Cherrypaw asked. 

“Sure,” Firestar replied. “It’s only hunting patrols 
who have to bring their fresh-kill back for the Clan.” 

“Good.” Sparrowpaw poked his head out of the den 
behind his sister. “Let’s get going!” 

Firestar led the way up the gorge past the path that 
led to Skywatcher’s den, as far as the rocks where 
they had saved Clovertail and her kits from the fox. He 
wondered if the first SkyClan warriors had set their 
boundaries anywhere nearby; he guessed they would 
have marked out a bigger territory than the new 
SkyClan needed now, with fewer mouths to feed and 
fewer warriors to guard the borders. 

“We’ll set the first scent markers here,” he 
explained. “Then any cat who comes along will know 
that this is our territory. If you keep renewing the 
marks, then over a few moons a really strong scent 
builds up.” 


A shiver went through him from ears to tail tip. 
When he first came to the forest, the borders of 
ThunderClan had been settled for more seasons than 
any cat could remember. The decisions he made now 
would affect SkyClan for seasons to come. 

“Do other cats respect the boundaries?” Leafdapple 
asked. 

It was a good question, Firestar thought. Cats from 
other Clans would think twice before crossing border 
markers, but there were no other Clans in this remote 
place. 

“You might have trouble from rogues—” he began. 

“We’ll soon teach them to stay out of our territory,” 
Sharpclaw interrupted, flexing his claws. 

“Or get them to join us,’ Leafdapple suggested 
quietly. “We were rogues ourselves not so long ago.” 

When the first markers were set, Firestar found a 
trail that led up to the cliff top on the side opposite the 
camp. The cats headed downstream again along the 
top of the gorge. 

“Here’s a good place for another scent marker,” 
Firestar meowed, pointing with his tail toward a 
boulder that broke through the thin soil a couple of tail- 


lengths from the cliff edge. “It’s always a good idea to 
have a marker you can see as well as scent. That way 
it’s easier to remember where they are.” 

“Can I do it? Please?” Cherrypaw bounced up to 
the rock. 

“Okay. You saw what I did back there. Catch up 
when you’ve finished.” 

While Cherrypaw set the marker, Firestar led the 
other cats farther along the cliff until they came in 
sight of the woodland where he had spoken to the 
rogues. Cherrypaw came bounding up as they paused 
for Sparrowpaw to set another marker at a spot where 
the cliff edge crumbled away. 

“I want to include some of the woods in the 
territory,’ Firestar meowed. “It’s the best place for 
prey. But I don’t want to tread on the tails of the 
rogues who didn’t join us. We’re not looking for a 
fight.” 

Leafdapple nodded. “If we stay on good terms with 
them, some of them might change their minds.” 

Firestar let Sharpclaw take the lead as they reached 
the trees. The two apprentices had never been in thick 
woodland before; their eyes stretched wide, and 


Cherrypaw let out an excited squeal before slapping 
her tail over her mouth with a guilty look at Sharpclaw. 

“That’s right, frighten all the prey in the forest,” 
Sharpclaw grumbled. 

Firestar glanced at the ginger warrior, hoping he 
wasn’t going to be too tough with an apprentice who 
was less experienced than a Clan cat of her age. But 
Cherrypaw didn’t seem crushed; she had already 
spotted a blackbird pecking underneath a bush, and had 
started to creep up on tt. 

Leafdapple waved her tail at Sparrowpaw. “You can 
hunt too, if you like.” 

Sparrowpaw’s ears pricked, and he stood tasting the 
air before stalking through long grass toward some 
prey Firestar couldn’t see. 

“I suggest we head for the stream,’ Sharpclaw 
meowed, keeping an eye on his apprentice. “If we 
make that the border, Rainfur’s and Lichen’s dens will 
be outside our territory.” 

“What about Tangle?” Firestar asked, remembering 
the cranky old tabby. 

Leafdapple let out a faint mrrow of amusement. 
“Tangle shifts his den every moon. If he doesn’t like 


being inside our territory, he can move outside it.” 

Firestar nodded. Sharpclaw’s idea was a good one, 
but he reminded himself to tell the warriors not to 
attack rogues if they found them on SkyClan territory 
—at least, not until they had been given plenty of time 
to get used to the idea of the Clan’s presence in the 
woods. 

“The stream it is, then,” he meowed. 

Just then Cherrypaw gave an enormous leap and 
snatched the blackbird out of the air as it tried to fly 
off. Crashing to the ground again she trotted back with 
her prey in her jaws and laid it at Sharpclaw’s paws. 
“For you,” she mewed, dipping her head respectfully. 
“I can soon catch another.” 

Sharpclaw stared at her and at the fresh-kill. 
“Thanks,” he managed to say. “Good catch.” 

Her eyes gleaming, Cherrypaw padded off again 
with her tail in the air. 

Not to be outdone, Sparrowpaw brought his first 
catch—a mouse—to Leafdapple, before going off to 
hunt for his own fresh-kill. Firestar was pleased to see 
them trying to act like proper Clan cats, and decided 
not to tell them that apprentices didn’t usually catch 


prey for their mentors. He caught a squirrel for 
himself, with a leap that was nearly good enough for 
SkyClan. 

When they had finished eating, Sharpclaw led the 
way to the stream. Before they reached it, Cherrypaw 
waved her tail excitedly at a dead tree that stood by 
itself in a clearing. “That’s a good place for a marker!” 

Firestar halted. “It’s okay, but I think this one would 
be better.” He nodded at an ivy-covered oak tree on 
the nearer edge of the clearing. 

“Why?” Sparrowpaw asked. “We’d have more 
territory if we used the dead tree.” 

“Yes, but there’s no cover in the clearing,” Firestar 
explained. A tingle of excitement went through him. 
Were these the sort of decisions that ThunderClan 
warriors had made in the forest so long ago? “No 
cover for prey, and none for you, if there are foxes or 
badgers about.” 

“That makes sense.” Sharpclaw padded up to the 
oak tree and set a marker there. 

Following the stream, the cats reached the cliff top 
and climbed down to where the fallen tree trunk 
crossed the river. 


Firestar took the lead once more, over to the far side 
of the gorge and up the cliff toward the Twolegplace, 
setting scent by the tree stump and the deserted fox’s 
den that Skywatcher had told him marked the old 
border. Then the patrol skirted the edge of the 
Twolegplace as far as the barn at the end of the row. 
Firestar felt his fur begin to prick again as they 
approached it; he didn’t like the place and never would, 
but at least now it was outside the SkyClan borders. 

Finally he led his patrol back toward the camp by a 
route that took in most of the undergrowth on the cliff 
top. He guessed it was almost sunhigh, though clouds 
still covered the sky and the wind was scented with 
rain. 

As the patrol approached the bushes, Sandstorm 
emerged with a mouse between her jaws. “Hi,” she 
mewed, dropping her prey. “I thought you must have 
gone on patrol.” 

“We set the borders!” Cherrypaw announced 
proudly. 

“Good.” Sandstorm twitched her whiskers with 
approval. “You’ll have to tell the rest of us where they 


33 


are. 


“Over the next few days, every cat can do the 
patrol,” Firestar meowed. “I see you’ve been hunting,” 
he added, flicking his tail toward the mouse. 

“Yes, there’s plenty of prey about,’ Sandstorm 
replied. “Patchfoot is a good hunter already, and 
Shortwhisker is coming on really well.” 

Firestar was glad to hear that. A few successes 
would give the former kittypet some much-needed 
confidence. 

“There’s just one thing that’s worrying me,” 
Sandstorm went on in a lower voice meant for Firestar 
alone. “There’s been no sign of Skywatcher this 
morning.” 

Apprehension clawed deep in Firestar’s belly. 
Mention of Skywatcher reminded him of the old cat’s 
strange mood the night before, and the ominous words 
of his prophecy. 

“I think you should check on him,’ Sandstorm 
prompted. “He should be here in the camp, not stuck 
out there in that excuse for a den.” 

‘TIl go right away,” Firestar meowed. 

He picked his way down the stony trail and headed 
up the gorge. Remembering what Sandstorm had said 


about the fox, he kept all his senses alert. Skywatcher 
was a noble old cat, but he would be no match for a 
strong and determined predator. However, there was 
no trace of fox scent. 

By the time he reached the path behind the boulder 
a thin drizzle had begun to fall, penetrating his fur with 
chill claws. As he approached the den, he couldn’t see 
anything of the old warrior. Maybe he’s out hunting. 


Drawing closer, he spotted gray fur half concealed 
behind the roots of the thorn tree. “Skywatcher!” he 
called. There was no reply. 

When he stood at the mouth of the den, he could see 
the old cat curled up at the very back, pressed against 
the earth wall with a tangle of roots over his head. 

“Skywatcher?” Firestar repeated. 

The gray warrior did not move. Firestar drew in his 
breath with sudden understanding as he ducked his 
head to enter the den and took the couple of pawsteps 
that brought him to Skywatcher’s side. The old cat 
was stil, and when Firestar gently laid a paw on his 
shoulder, he felt cold. Somehow he looked smaller than 
he had when he was alive. 


Grief clawed at Firestar’s heart. Perhaps the old cat 
had clung to life only until he could see SkyClan 
restored. Firestar hoped he had died happy, knowing 
that his dreams had been fulfilled. 

“Good-bye, my friend.” His voice choked in his 
throat as he stroked his tail over the old warrior’s 
head. “May StarClan light your path.” 


Firestar jumped to the top of the Rockpile and gazed 
down at the cats of SkyClan. Clovertail was stretched 
out by the stream with her kits frisking around her, 
while Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw were eating beside 
the fresh-kill pile. Sharpclaw and Patchfoot were 
wrestling together at the foot of the cliff in a practice 
fight. Sandstorm sat watching them nearby, offering 
some comments on their technique. Firestar’s heart 
was heavy with the news he had to tell them. 

“Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey join 
here beneath the Rockpile for a Clan meeting!” he 
yowled. 

Sharpclaw and Patchfoot broke apart and sat up 
with ears pricked. The two apprentices swallowed 


their fresh-kill and looked up, their eyes bright with 
curiosity. Leafdapple began to pick her way down 
from the cliff top, joining Shortwhisker as he emerged 
from the warriors’ den. 

“I have some bad news to tell you,’ Firestar 
meowed when all the Clan had gathered. “Skywatcher 
is dead.” 

For a moment there was silence, except for the 
happy squealing of Clovertail’s kits as they played 
beside their mother. Clovertail swept them closer to 
her with her tail. “Hush,’ she mewed. “Firestar’s 
telling us something very sad.” 

“It is bad news,” Sharpclaw agreed, flexing his 
claws against the rock. “The Clan will be weaker 
without his experience to guide us.” 

Firestar’s tail twitched; grief for the old cat swept 
over him again as he saw that most of the Clan cats 
were giving one another blank looks. He could see that 
few of them felt any real sense of loss. 

Sandstorm came to meet him as he bounded down 
the Rockpile again, and pushed her nose into his 
shoulder fur. “You can’t blame them,’ she murmured. 
“They hardly knew Skywatcher, and had only just 


realized he wasn’t a mad old nuisance.” 

“I know.” Firestar sighed. “But they need to 
understand how much he did for this Clan.” 

He asked Patchfoot to help him and Sandstorm 
bring the old cat’s body back to camp for his burial. 
The rest of the Clan gathered around as they laid him 
gently at the foot of the Rockpile. 

“Now remember, you have to stay up all night 
tonight,” Clovertail told her kits, keeping the inquisitive 
little creatures back with her tail. “You mustn’t go to 
sleep, whatever happens.” 

“No, that’s all right,’ Firestar meowed, surprised 
that the former loner had heard about the custom of 
keeping vigil. “Kits don’t need to stay awake.” 

Clovertail stared at him, her eyes wide with alarm 
and her neck fur bristling. “Do you want my kits to 
die?” she screeched. 

“What?” Firestar was baffled. “Your kits aren’t in 
any danger.” 

Shortwhisker shivered. “No, Clovertail’s right. You 
have to stay awake the night a cat dies; otherwise you 
die too. My mother told me that.” 

“It’s true,’ Sharpclaw meowed. “Remember Foxy? 


He went to sleep the night his brother died, and a 
couple of days later a monster got him.” 

“Yes, I remember that,” Leafdapple put in. 

“But it’s not true.” Firestar spoke firmly, seeing that 
the former kittypets were giving one another anxious 
glances. He’d talk to the rogues later about this 
intriguing superstition that must have sprung from Clan 
traditions, even though the Clan itself had been 
forgotten. “We stay awake, yes, but only to honor the 
fallen cat on its journey to StarClan. It doesn’t have 
anything to do with believing that we’ll die if we 
don’t.” 

“Not every cat sits vigil for the whole of the night,” 
Sandstorm went on. “Just those who were closest to 
the dead cat. But tonight I think the whole Clan should 
do it, because there aren’t many of us.” 

“We’re his kin, aren’t we?” Sparrowpaw asked. 
“Those of us with SkyClan blood.” 

Firestar dipped his head. “Yes, you are. We’ll all 
keep watch, and in the morning we’ll bury him. It’s 
usually the elders who do that, but Sandstorm and I will 
do it for Skywatcher.” 

‘Td like to help,’ Cherrypaw mewed; the young 


tortoiseshell looked unusually subdued. “We never told 
him we were sorry for calling him names.” 

“T wish we had,” Sparrowpaw added miserably. 

Sandstorm touched his ear with her nose. “I think he 
knew. He saw you become Clan apprentices, and 
that’s what he wanted most of all...to see his Clan 
being made strong again.” 

As the sun went down and shadows filled the gorge, 
the Clan gathered for Skywatcher’s vigil. Firestar and 
Sandstorm crouched closest to him, pushing their noses 
into his cold gray fur. Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw sat 
a little way away, with the rest of the Clan. Clovertail 
hesitated, but settled down at the foot of the cliff with 
her kits snuggled into her fur as if they were going to 
sleep as usual. Shortwhisker looked most anxious, and 
Firestar wondered if he had deliberately sat down on a 
sharp-edged stone in order to keep him from dozing 
off. 

The last daylight faded from the sky; the clouds had 
cleared away and the warriors of StarClan began to 
appear overhead. After a while Firestar realized that 
the Clan were becoming restless. He could hear 
shifting and muttering behind him. Cherrypaw let out a 


huge yawn and her eyes closed; she jerked awake 
again as Sparrowpaw prodded her in the side. 

Then Firestar heard Clovertail’s voice whispering in 
his ear. “I’m sorry, Firestar, It’s getting cold, and if 
you’re sure it’s safe to go to sleep, I’d like to take my 
kits back to the cave.” 

“That’s fine,” he murmured. 

As she withdrew, he heard another cat rise and 
follow her up the stony trail; glancing around he saw 
that it was Sharpclaw. Shortwhisker and Patchfoot 
were mewing quietly to each other; after a few 
heartbeats Shortwhisker moved away, but only to sit by 
himself on a rock a few fox-lengths farther down the 
stream. Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw, for all their good 
intentions, had fallen asleep. Only Leafdapple 
remained, her gaze fixed on the stars. 

Firestar suppressed a sigh. These cats didn’t 
understand properly what it meant to live the life of a 
warrior and to follow the warrior code. They would 
need to learn the importance of the vigil—among so 
many other things—before they would truly be a Clan. 
But at least they seemed to trust him when he said 
they wouldn’t die if they fell asleep tonight. Perhaps it 


had been easier to stay awake when they were leading 
less orderly lives, without dawn patrols and hunting 
patrols and cave duties to tire them out. 

Stretching stiff limbs, he gazed up at Silverpelt’s 
frosty fire and wondered which of those glittering 
points of light was the spirit of Skywatcher. Have you 
found your way to SkyClan’s warrior ancestors? 
He hoped so; if any cat deserved to walk among the 
stars, it was Skywatcher. 


Moonlight shining through the cave entrance woke 
Firestar, and glancing around the den he realized that 
Shortwhisker wasn’t there. Worried, he poked his head 
outside and spotted the tabby tom sitting on the rock by 
the river, where he had gone three nights before when 
the Clan kept vigil for Skywatcher. 

Firestar padded down to join him; as he approached 
Shortwhisker jumped, and a defensive look flickered in 
his eyes. 

“Did you want me?” he began. 

“No, not for anything in particular.” Firestar sprang 
up onto the rock beside him. “But I get the feeling 


you’re not happy. If there’s anything wrong, you can 
tell me.” 

Shortwhisker edged to one side to make room for 
him. “There’s nothing wrong,” he meowed. 
“Everything’s fine. I’m learning stuff I never imagined 
before. It’s just...well, there are so many cats. 
Especially when we’re all sleeping together in the den. 
I’ve been used to living on my own with my 
housefolk.” 

“I was a kittypet too, you know, and I felt the same 
when I joined my Clan. But you'll get used to it,” 
Firestar told him. “Soon you’ll wonder how you ever 
managed to sleep without your Clanmates around 
you.” 

“Maybe,” Shortwhisker meowed, though he didn’t 
sound convinced. 

The tabby cat stared into the river, and Firestar got 
the sense that he wanted to be alone. He jumped down 
from the rock and returned to the den, wondering what 
he could do to make Shortwhisker feel more 
comfortable with Clan life. Perhaps pride in his hunting 
achievements would do the trick. 

A couple of days after his talk with Shortwhisker, 


Firestar returned from a hunting patrol with 
Sparrowpaw and Leafdapple to find the camp almost 
deserted. The warriors’ cave was empty, and when the 
patrol padded down to the riverside, the only cats they 
found there were Clovertail and her kits. 

“Come back, Bouncekit!” Clovertail called, 
wrapping her tail around the adventurous ginger kit and 
pulling him back from the edge of the water. Glancing 
at Firestar, she added, “They’re getting so strong and 
active. And if they get into trouble, you can be sure 
Bouncekit is at the bottom of it!” 

“They’re doing really well” Firestar told her. 
“They'll soon be ready for mentors. And we’re so 
short of warriors,” he went on, “that you might have to 
mentor one of them yourself. It’s not ideal for 
apprentices to have their mother as a mentor, but—” 

Clovertail’s eyes widened in dismay. “I’ve no idea 
how to mentor an apprentice.” 

“Maybe it’s time you started to join the patrols,” 
Firestar suggested. “I’m sure you’ll learn quickly.” 

“Oh, I couldn’t possibly!” Clovertail exclaimed. “My 
kits still need me. Who would keep an eye on them, if I 
weren’t here? Rockkit, come down off there!” she 


added, raising her voice to the black kit who had 
started to scramble up the Rockpile. “You’ll fall into 
the water!” 

Looking at the three mischievous kits, Firestar 
supposed she had a point. “Where is every cat?” he 
asked. “The whole gorge seems deserted.” 

“They went with Sandstorm,” Clovertail replied, 
pointing up the gorge with her tail. “She said she was 
taking them for a training session.” With a glance at 
her kits to make sure they weren’t misbehaving, she 
padded over to the newly stocked fresh-kill pile and 
chose a mouse for herself. 

Firestar left her with Sparrowpaw and Leafdapple, 
and padded up the gorge. A few tail-lengths farther on, 
the cliff curved inward to leave a wide, flat space with 
a sandy floor. Firestar reached it in time to see 
Cherrypaw pounce on Sandstorm; the two she-cats 
rolled over and over in a fierce tangle of paws and 
tails. Sharpclaw, Shortwhisker, and Patchfoot were 
looking on. 

At last Sandstorm broke free and stood up, shaking 
sand from her pelt. “Well done,” she meowed. “You’ve 
got that leap and claw action just right. If I were a fox, 


I wouldn’t fancy meeting you.” 

Cherrypaw’s eyes glowed. 

“Shortwhisker, you have a go,” Sandstorm went on. 
“Pretend I’m a fox that’s trying to get into the Clan 
nursery.” 

Shortwhisker hesitated, glancing around at the other 
cats, while Sandstorm crouched, her tail tip flicking 
impatiently. “Come on,” she urged. “I’ve had time to 
eat a couple of kits by now.” 

Shortwhisker hurled himself across the sandy space, 
his claws extended, but he had misjudged his leap. He 
fell short, just in front of Sandstorm, who cuffed him 
over the ears with both her front paws. Shortwhisker 
let out a growl of frustration, his tail lashing. 

“Don’t worry,” Sandstorm meowed. “Try again.” 

“No, Pve had enough for now.” Shortwhisker 
backed away. ‘T Il practice on my own for a bit.” 

For a heartbeat Sandstorm gave him a questioning 
stare, then nodded. “Okay. We’ll have another session 
tomorrow.” 

Shortwhisker padded around a curve in the gorge 
and out of sight. Firestar exchanged a glance with 
Sandstorm and went after him. Before he caught up 


with Shortwhisker, the tabby tom realized that some 
cat was following him, and stopped to wait. 

‘Tm sorry,’ he meowed, not giving Firestar a 
chance to speak first. “I know I messed up.” He 
blinked miserably. “I’m never going to get it right. I 
just feel so awkward, trying to train with all those other 
cats watching.” 

Firestar suppressed a sigh. It was the same problem 
that Shortwhisker had spoken about before, on the 
rock by the river. He was finding it hard to adjust to 
living among a large number of cats. 

“Well, it’s the same for every cat,’ he began. 
Shortwhisker tried to interrupt, but Firestar flicked his 
tail for silence. “I can understand how you feel, but for 
StarClan’s sake, why didn’t you tell Sandstorm that? 
She’s not unreasonable. She would give you a one-on- 
one session if you asked her.” 

Shortwhisker’s forepaws shuffled on the sandy 
ground. “I don’t like to give her any trouble. She works 
so hard already.” 

“I know, but it’s no trouble, honestly. PI tell you 
what,” Firestar went on. “Would you like to practice 
with me, now? No cat is watching us.” 


Shortwhisker’s eyes brightened. “Would you 
really?” 

“Of course. What move was Sandstorm trying to 
teach you?” 

“She showed us how to leap on top of our enemies. 
That way, she said, it’s harder for them to get at you.” 

“True.” Firestar lashed his tail. “Okay—come and 
get me.” 

He had hardly finished speaking when Shortwhisker 
leaped at him, snarling. Firestar sidestepped; 
Shortwhisker hit the ground beside him, but managed 
to rake his paws down Firestar’s side before he could 
scramble out of range. 

“Good!” Firestar exclaimed. 

“I missed you, though,’ Shortwhisker mewed 
ruefully. 

Firestar gritted his teeth. Was this cat determined to 
see the bad side of everything? “But you still got a 
blow in,” he pointed out. “Try again, and this time keep 
fighting until I tell you to stop.” 

He crouched, waiting for Shortwhisker’s leap. For a 
moment he relaxed as the tabby’s gaze drifted to a 
butterfly fluttering past; the leap when it came took 


him by surprise. “Sneaky!” He  grunted as 
Shortwhisker landed on top of him, driving the breath 
from his body. He heard a snarl of satisfaction as 
Shortwhisker gripped his shoulders with his paws and 
bit down into his neck fur. Rolling over onto his back, 
Firestar twisted his haunches, trying to land a blow on 
Shortwhisker’s belly with his hind paws. Shortwhisker 
lost his grip, all four paws flailing wildly as he tried to 
claw Firestar again. 

“Okay, that’ ll do,” Firestar panted. 

Shortwhisker scrambled to his paws. “I didn’t hurt 
you, did I?” 

Firestar’s flank was stinging, but he shook his head. 
“That was great. You’ve got the makings of a really 
dangerous fighter.” 

Shortwhisker’s eyes glowed with the praise. 
“Really?” 

“Really. There’s no need for you to feel ashamed in 
front of other cats.” 

The tabby tom shrugged. ‘TIl get used to it sooner 
or later, I guess.” He dipped his head to Firestar. ‘TI 
Just practice the moves on my own for a bit, if that’s 
okay.” 


“That’s fine.” 

Firestar padded back down the gorge to find that the 
training session was breaking up, with the other cats 
heading toward the camp. Sandstorm was sitting in the 
middle of the training space, grooming sand out of her 
fur. 

“I had a talk with Shortwhisker,’ Firestar began, 
teling her what had happened. 

“PI make sure he gets the chance to train on his 
own,” Sandstorm promised. She finished her grooming 
and stood up. “I’m less worried about him than about 
Clovertail. She hasn’t been to a single training session 
yet.” 

“She’s still taking care of her kits.” 

Sandstorm’s whiskers twitched. “Her kits are old 
enough to be left for a short while. They could come 
and watch, for StarClan’s sake!” 

“Don’t worry.” Firestar brushed his tail against her 
shoulder. “The kits will be apprenticed soon, and then 
Clovertail will see that she has to join in. Remember, 
she hasn’t been a Clan cat for long.” 

Sandstorm sniffed. “When she was made a warrior, 
she promised to protect and defend the Clan. How 


does she expect to keep her promise if she never 
learns to fight?” 

“Give her time,” Firestar urged. “She doesn’t 
understand what the promise means yet. One day she 
will.” 

“And the sooner the better,’ Sandstorm muttered. 

Together the two cats strolled back to camp. 
Without conscious decision, their paws led them to the 
top of the Rockpile. Sandstorm lay down on one side, 
closing her eyes to slits as the sun beat down on her. 
Firestar sat beside her, looking down to where the river 
poured out. Patchfoot was sitting on a rock by the 
waterside, stretching down to lap. A couple of tail- 
lengths away, Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw were play- 
fighting, while their mentors looked on and offered 
advice. Clovertail and her kits had crossed the river, 
and the kits were exploring the rocks near the water 
on that side. 

“You know, this reminds me of Sunningrocks,” 
Sandstorm murmured. “The warm rock, the sound of 
the river...1 wonder what the others are doing back 
home?” 

“Graystripe will keep the Clan safe,’ Firestar 


mewed. “I trust him more than any cat.” 

Homesickness flooded over him. Even though he 
believed Skywatcher’s promise that ThunderClan was 
safe, he wanted to see his Clan deputy and his best 
friend more than anything. 

Sandstorm stroked his shoulder gently with her tail 
tip. “I wonder how Sorrelpaw is getting on with 
Dustpelt.” She let out a soft mrrow of amusement. 
“T’d love to watch one of their training sessions!” 

Firestar echoed her mrrow. “Let’s hope Dustpelt 
survives—” 

He broke off at the sound of a terrified shriek from 
below. Springing up, he saw Clovertail standing at the 
edge of the river, her fur fluffed out so that she looked 
twice her size. 

For a heartbeat he couldn’t locate the kits. Then he 
spotted Bouncekit, struggling frantically as he was 
carried along in the surge of water as it flowed out of 
the cave. He scrabbled with his front paws, letting out 
a wail of terror that was cut off as his head went 
under. 

By then Firestar was bounding down the rocks with 
Sandstorm hard on his paws. But Clovertail was faster. 


Before they reached the path on the other side of the 
cave she had plunged into the river; she swam strongly 
to where her kit had vanished and dived down under 
the water. 

Terror stabbed through Firestar. Would he have to 
save the mother as well as her kit? Then Clovertail 
reappeared, gripping Bouncekit firmly by the scruff. 
Dragging him with her, she reached the side of the 
pool, where Firestar and Sandstorm leaned over to 
take the kit while Clovertail hauled herself onto dry 
ground. 

“Bouncekit!” she exclaimed. “Bouncekit, are you all 
right?” 

Shivering, Bouncekit let out a feeble cry and 
vomited up a mouthful of water. His mother nudged 
him into a patch of sunlight, where he flopped down 
like a damp leaf. Clovertail crouched beside him and 
began licking him fiercely, ruffling his fur the wrong 
way to dry him out and get him warm again. 

Firestar looked around for the other two kits and 
spotted them edging their way nervously along the path 
that led underneath the rocks to the cave where the 
moss grew. Emerging from the cave they pattered 


along the riverbank and halted in front of their mother, 
their eyes wide with fear. 

“Will Bouncekit be okay?” Tinykit asked in a small 
voice. 

Clovertail looked up from her licking. Already 
Bouncekit’s fur was almost dry and he was trying to sit 
up. 
“I don’t know what the three of you were thinking 
of!” she hissed. “You know very well you shouldn’t 
have gone into that cave without me.” 

“But we knew you wouldn’t let us—” Rockkit 
began. 

“Of course I wouldn’t let you! And now you can 
see why.” She gave Bouncekit a few more rough licks; 
Firestar could tell she was angry only because she had 
been so terrified. “It’s dangerous under there, and 
you’re all too small to swim properly. What if I hadn’t 
been here?” 

Bouncekit managed to scramble up and stood 
groggily on all four paws. “It’s my fault,’ he mewed. 
“Tt was my idea.” 

“I don’t care whose fault it was.” Clovertail rose 
and shook herself; drops of water spun away from her 


pelt, spattering Firestar and Sandstorm. “You’re all to 
go straight back to the nursery. No more play for any 
of you today.” 

Rockkit let out an indignant wail, then broke off as 
his mother glared at him. “Go on. Now,” she ordered. 

Crestfallen, the kits turned away; then Tinykit 
glanced back. “There’s a cave in there, full of shining 
moss,” she mewed. “And there were voices talking to 
us.” 

Startled, Firestar stepped forward. “What did they 
say?” 

“They were so quiet that we couldn’t hear,” 
Bouncekit replied. 

“Voices, indeed!” Clovertail scolded. “Haven’t you 
been naughty enough without making up stories?” 

“But we’re not making it up!” Tinykit protested, her 
white tail quivering. “We did hear voices—lots of 
them.” 

“I don’t want to hear any more about it,” her mother 
meowed. “You’re never to go into that cave again, and 
that’s the end of it.” Snorting in annoyance, she began 
herding her kits back toward the Rockpile. 

Firestar exchanged a glance with Sandstorm. 


Skywatcher had told them that the SkyClan medicine 
cats had shared tongues with their ancestors in the 
cave where the river flowed out. Could the kits 
possibly have heard the voices of the SkyClan warriors 
from so long ago? 

He and Sandstorm helped the three kits clamber 
over the Rockpile, but when they had begun to climb 
the trail to the nursery he held Clovertail back with his 
tail on her shoulder. 

“Where did you learn to swim like that?” 

Clovertail shrugged. “I haven’t always lived in the 
gorge,” she explained. “I was born farther downriver, 
near an abandoned Twoleg nest. My mother taught me 
to swim for fish.” 

Firestar wondered if the Twoleg nest was the one 
he and Sandstorm had passed on their journey. 

“One of the Clans in the forest where I live is called 
RiverClan,” he told Clovertail. “They swim and catch 
fish all the time. ’ve never heard of any other cats 
who enjoy swimming, until now. I wonder if you have 
RiverClan ancestry.” 

Clovertail’s eyes widened. “Does that mean I don’t 
belong to SkyClan?” 


The dismay in her tone encouraged Firestar. It 
showed that at least Clovertail wanted to be a member 
of SkyClan, and had the seeds of loyalty to her 
Clanmates and the warrior code. 

“No,” Sandstorm meowed, touching her nose to 
Clovertail’s ear. “You’re a SkyClan cat through and 
through, because that’s where you’ve chosen to live.” 

“Cats can change Clans,’ Firestar added, 
remembering how Brambleclaw’s sister Tawnypelt had 
followed their father, Tigerstar, into ShadowClan. “It 
doesn’t happen often, and it doesn’t always work. But 
being a member of a Clan is about more than just 
blood.” 

“Even more,” Sandstorm went on, “you’ve proved 
that you have warrior blood in you. You owe it to your 
ancestors to learn their skills of hunting and fighting so 
that the warrior code can live on in you.” 

Clovertail blinked. “I promised that, didn’t I, when I 
was made a warrior? I’m starting to understand now 
what the words mean. But I still don’t think I'll be 
much use—not like you and Sharpclaw.” 

“You were very brave today,” Firestar assured her. 
“You saved Bouncekit. You didn’t need any other cat.” 


Clovertail looked thoughtful. At last she nodded. “I 
never thought of it like that,” she mewed. “Okay, I will 
join in the training from now on.” 

“Good.” Firestar rested his tail tip on her shoulder. 
“You'll feel you really belong to the Clan when you 
give something back to it. Think about your kits— 
they'll become warriors one day, and you could be a 
great example for them.” 

“We understand it’s not easy,’ Sandstorm told the 
she-cat, giving her a friendly lick. “But I promise you, 
it’s worth it.” 

“And you needn’t worry about your kits,” Firestar 
added. “They’ll be apprentices soon, and until then 
we'll make sure some cat keeps an eye on them while 
you’re training. No more expeditions into that cave!” 


On the following morning, Firestar took Sharpclaw, 
Cherrypaw, and Patchfoot on the dawn patrol. When 
they returned, he saw Sparrowpaw, Shortwhisker, and 
Leafdapple huddled together at the foot of the 
Rockpile, mewing urgently to one another. Sandstorm 
sat a tail-length away, a disgusted expression on her 


face. 

Firestar glanced at Sharpclaw. “What’s all that 
about?” 

The ginger tom shrugged. “I’ve no idea.” 

Firestar padded forward until he came up to the little 
group. “Hi, is everything okay?” 

The cats all turned worried faces toward him. 

“We were talking about the Whispering Cave,” 
Shortwhisker told him. 

Firestar stared. “The what?” 

“The cave under the rocks.” Sandstorm got up, her 
eyes narrowed. “That’s what they’re calling it now. 
Those silly kits have spread the story about the voices, 
and—” 

“There must be something down there,” 
Sparrowpaw interrupted. “Rockkit said he saw big 
shiny cats with huge claws. Their eyes glowed like the 
moon and their teeth were bigger than a fox’s.” 

Patchfoot looked horrified. “Really?” 

“Kits will be kits, I know.” Leafdapple twitched her 
tail. “But they looked terrified! Would they really make 
all that up?” 

“Hmm...” Firestar could tell that the kits had 


improved their story since their visit to the cave the 
day before. 

“Suppose these big cats come out?” Shortwhisker 
mewed. 

Sandstorm rolled her eyes. “Suppose hedgehogs 
fly!” 

“If there is something in there, we ought to deal with 
it.” Sharpclaw flexed his claws. “We should go in and 
attack before they have a chance to attack us.” 

Firestar lifted one paw to stall him. “We will go in 
there, but not until later on. And I don’t believe there’s 
anything to be afraid of. It’s time for hunting patrols,” 
he went on. “Sharpclaw, you can lead one, and 
Leafdapple the other.” 

The SkyClan cats still gave him doubtful looks as 
they moved away. Sandstorm lagged behind, drawing 
closer to him. 

“What do you think is down there?” she murmured. 
“Skywatcher said that the SkyClan medicine cats used 
to share tongues with their warrior ancestors in that 
cave.” 

Firestar nodded. “Thats what I’m hoping. Every 
Clan needs a special place, like the Moonstone, and 


this cave could be SkyClan’s. It worries me that the 
new Clan doesn’t have a medicine cat yet. Maybe if 
we go into the cave tonight, SkyClan’s warrior 
ancestors will show us which cat to choose.” 
Sandstorm’s eyes gleamed. “Good idea. We can’t 
stay here forever, waiting for a medicine cat to show 
up.” 
Firestar pushed away the feeling of homesickness 
that threatened to cloud his thoughts. This wasn’t his 
Clan, but he couldn’t leave until he was sure they could 
survive without him, and finding a medicine cat was a 
big part of that. “SkyClan’s warrior ancestors must be 
out there somewhere,’ he meowed, clawing at the 
sandy ground. 


When night had fallen Firestar led his Clan into the 
cave beneath the rocks. The moon was a thin claw 
scratch in the sky, and starlight dappled the surface of 
the river. 

Every Clan member followed as he edged along the 
narrow path beside the water—all except Clovertail. 
She had stayed to look after her kits; she still refused 


to believe that there was anything in the cave, and had 
given Rockkit, Bouncekit, and Tinykit a good scolding 
for frightening every cat. 

“Be careful!” Firestar called, glancing back over his 
shoulder. “Cherrypaw, no fooling about! You could 
easily slip on these wet rocks, and we haven’t got 
Clovertail to pull you out!” 

“There’s something shining up ahead.” A quavering 
voice came from somewhere behind Firestar; it 
sounded like Shortwhisker. 

He was right. Firestar could see a pale light flowing 
from the cave, reflecting on the surface of the water. 
“It’s okay,” he replied. “It’s not big scary cats, I 
promise.” 

Setting his paws down carefully, he reached the 
flattened path that led along the side of the 
underground river and stood back to let the rest of the 
Clan file inside. 

Sandstorm brought up the rear. “See?” she 
meowed. “It’s just moss.” 

“And it’s beautiful,” Firestar added. “Look how the 
light ripples over the roof.” 

The SkyClan cats gazed around, their eyes 


reflecting the eerie light. 

“Hey!” Sharpclaw meowed. “We’re scary cats 
whose eyes glow like the moon.” 

Leafdapple let out a mrrow of amusement; 
Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw exchanged glances, 
looking ashamed for believing the kits’ story. 

“Skywatcher told us that your SkyClan ancestors 
called this the Shining Cave,” Firestar told them. “It 
would have been a special place for them.” 

But the Whispering Cave might be a better name, 
he thought. He strained to hear any message from 
SkyClan’s warrior ancestors, but all he could hear was 
the lap of the swift black water and the mews of his 
Clanmates. 

“What was special about it?” Sharpclaw asked. 

Firestar gave each of the SkyClan cats a searching 
glance before he replied. Skywatcher had told them 
that this cave was a special place for medicine cats, 
but Firestar didn’t want to destroy their confidence by 
teling the new Clanmates that they still needed a 
vitally important Clan member before they could be a 
real Clan. Instead he watched to see if any cat could 
hear voices; to his disappointment, they were gazing 


warily around, respectful, but showing no sign of 
understanding the cave’s deeper meaning—not even 
Leafdapple, who had seemed sensitive enough to be a 
potential medicine cat. 

“We’ll find a use for the cave when it’s needed,” he 
told Sharpclaw, stifling a sigh. “All in good time.” 

The ginger tom gave Firestar a look from narrowed 
eyes, but said nothing more, only turning to lead the 
way along the ledge and out into the open again. 

Firestar waited until every other cat had left before 
listening one last time for the voices the kits had heard. 
The hair on his pelt began to rise; perhaps, very faint 
and far away, there was something, but he couldn’t be 
sure. How could he put the new Clan in touch with the 
spirits of the former SkyClan when he couldn’t hear 
them either? 

“Are you there?” he mewed aloud, hoping that 
SkyClan’s warrior ancestors could hear him. “If you 
are, show yourselves to us. And for the new Clan’s 
sake, please send us a medicine cat.” 


CHAPTER 27 


Firestar sat at the edge of the sandy training area, 
watching Sandstorm working with Clovertail. Several 
days had passed since the pale brown she-cat had 
agreed to join the sessions. She was still anxious, still 
unsure about her place within the Clan, but she was 
trying her best. 

She crouched with her tail lashing back and forth, 
her gaze fixed on Sandstorm. When the ginger she-cat 
sprang, Clovertail grabbed her and flipped her over to 
hold her down on the sand. Her three kits, watching 
beside Firestar, bounced up and down, letting out 
gleeful meows. 

“Yes!” Rockkit yowled. “Go, Clovertail!” 

“Bite her throat!” Bouncekit urged. 

Sandstorm pushed Clovertail off and glared at the 
three kits as she spat out a mouthful of sand. “Do you 
mind?” she meowed. “You just wait until you’re 
apprentices. I’ Il teach you about throat biting.” 

All three kits collapsed in mrrows of laughter, their 
tiny tails waving in the air. 


“It’s no use.” Firestar twitched his ears at his mate. 
“They know you're not as fierce as you sound.” 

Sandstorm ignored him. “You’re coming along very 
well,” she told Clovertail. “You might want to watch 
out for—” 

She broke off at the sound of yowling coming from 
farther down the gorge. Firestar sprang to his paws. 
He flicked his tail at Sandstorm. “Come on. Clovertail, 
keep the kits here.” 

Not waiting to see if Clovertail obeyed, he raced 
down the gorge. Sandstorm bounded at his heels. A 
heartbeat before they reached the Rockpile, the 
yowling stopped. The silence was almost as frightening 
as the sound. 

Skidding around the lowest rocks of the Rockpile, 
Firestar came to a slippery halt. A couple of tail 
lengths in front of him stood Rainfur, the gray rogue 
who had refused to join the Clan. His sides heaved as 
he fought for breath. 

Patchfoot was facing him, his pelt bristling and his 
lips drawn back in a snarl. Leafdapple and Sharpclaw 
stood close by with their apprentices, looking ready to 
fight the intruder if they had to. 


“Get out,” Patchfoot rasped. “You had the chance to 
stay and you turned it down. Now go, unless you want 
your fur clawed off.” 

“Wait,” Firestar meowed, padding forward to push 
himself between Patchfoot and Rainfur. “What’s the 
problem?” 

“Rainfur knows he’s not supposed to come here 
now,” Patchfoot began. 

Firestar touched the black-and-white tom’s shoulder 
with his tail. “Let Rainfur speak for himself.” 

By this time the gray rogue had gotten his breath 
back. “I need your help,’ he meowed. “Please, 
Firestar. It’s not for me; it’s for my mate and her kits.” 

Until then Firestar hadn’t even known that Rainfur 
had a mate. “What’s the matter with them?” 

“Petal is a kittypet,’ Rainfur explained. “She lives 
downriver”—he waved his tail toward the opposite 
side of the gorge—‘with an old Twoleg who hardly 
ever feeds her. She used to sneak out to meet me, and 
I used to catch prey for her. I tried to persuade her to 
come and live with me, but she was scared, especially 
when she found out she had kits coming. She thought 
the Twoleg would care for them.” 


“When he didn’t care for her?” Sandstorm asked, 
shocked. 

Rainfur shook his head helplessly. “I couldn’t 
persuade her. But now that the kits are born the 
Twoleg is just as bad, if not worse. Petal is getting 
weaker and weaker, and she hasn’t enough milk to 
keep the kits alive. You’ve got to help us!” 

Leafdapple glanced at Firestar. “I think we should 
go.” 

“Just a moment.” Without waiting for Firestar to 
answer, Sharpclaw stepped forward, giving Rainfur a 
suspicious look. “If your mate could sneak out to see 
you, why can’t she sneak out now, and bring the kits 
with her?” To Firestar he added, “T think he might be 
setting a trap for us.” 

Rainfur’s neck fur began to bristle. “Why would I 
want to do that?” he meowed. “She can’t get out 
because the Twoleg has blocked the gap she used.” A 
shiver ran through him, and he clawed the ground in 
frustration. “They’re all going to die, and I don’t know 
what to do!” 

“We’ll come,” Firestar decided. “How many kits?” 

“Two,” Rainfur replied, blinking in shocked relief. 


“Okay,” meowed Firestar. “Sharpclaw, Leafdapple, 
Patchfoot, you come with me. That’ll be enough to 
distract the Twoleg and carry the kits out. Sandstorm, 
you’re in charge until I get back.” 

“Fine.” Sandstorm’s tail curled up. “Good luck,” she 
added. 

Rainfur led the SkyClan patrol downstream, and 
across the river by the tree trunk. They climbed the 
cliff and crossed the SkyClan border scent marks, still 
heading downstream. This was new territory to 
Firestar; he pricked his ears, all his senses alert, but 
nothing disturbed the quiet of the woods. 

Eventually Rainfur halted, raising his tail in warning. 
“The Twoleg nest is just beyond here,” he explained, 
nodding toward a clump of brambles. “We need to be 
careful the Twoleg doesn’t see us. He’s thrown things 
at me before now.” 

Firestar took the lead, creeping around the bramble 
thicket with his belly fur brushing the grass. He paused 
when the Twoleg nest came in sight, scanning it 
carefully. A wooden fence surrounded it, but it was 
partly broken down, with bushes crowding up against it 
on both sides. Beyond it the nest was dark and silent. 


Firestar could pick up strong scents of Twoleg and cat, 
but he couldn’t see any movement. 

“Okay, come on,” he murmured over his shoulder. 
“But keep quiet.” 

He crept forward again, following the Twoleg fence 
until he came to a gap in the bottom, where he slid into 
the garden. He found himself among thick bushes, so 
overgrown that hardly any sunlight penetrated their 
branches. Beyond them was a stretch of long, ragged 
grass, leading up to the nest itself. Twoleg flowers 
edged the grass, but they were straggling and 
overgrown, not neat like in most Twoleg gardens. 

Creepers were growing up the walls of the nest, and 
Firestar spotted a hole in the roof. It looked almost as 
derelict as the abandoned nest, where he and 
Sandstorm had stayed on their way upriver. 

“Twolegs live here?” Leafdapple whispered from 
beside Firestar’s shoulder. 

“That’s where Petal is.” Rainfur pointed with his tail 
toward a gap in the wall of the nest. 

Firestar heard a faint mewing, and made out a pale 
blur behind the hard transparent stuff that filled the 
gap. 


“There she is!” Rainfur mewed. He shot past 
Firestar and leaped onto the ledge outside the hole in 
the wall. 

“Idiot,” Sharpclaw muttered. “He’ll get us all 
caught.” 

But almost at once Rainfur leaped down again and 
slunk back to rejoin the group, barely visible in the long 
grass. “She wants to come with us,” he reported. “But 
we have to get her out first.” 

Staying alert for any Twoleg noise, Firestar turned to 
the rest of his patrol. “Any ideas?” 

Sharpclaw surveyed the nest with narrowed eyes. 
“Maybe we should take a look around the other side. 
We need a way of getting in.” 

“But Rainfur said the Twoleg keeps Petal shut up,” 
Leafdapple pointed out. “That suggests there won’t be 
anywhere to get in or out.” 

“Then we have to make the Twoleg open the door.” 
Firestar glanced at each of his warriors in turn: 
Patchfoot looked blank, and Sharpclaw was tearing 
impatiently at the earth beneath his paws. Rainfur kept 
casting anxious glances back at the nest, while 
Leafdapple’s eyes were thoughtful. 


“Some cat will have to get in there,” she mewed. “If 
Petal’s as weak as Rainfur says, she won’t be able to 
carry the kits out.” 

Firestar could think of a couple of ideas, but he 
wanted the SkyClan cats to come up with their own 
solutions. They would never become independent if 
they relied on him for everything. 

“What would fetch the Twoleg outside?” he 
prompted. 

“Fighting cats!” Sharpclaw exclaimed. “Rainfur, you 
said the Twoleg throws stuff at you if he sees you 
outside. He’ll have to open a door to do that.” 

“Brilliant!” Rainfur’s eyes were gleaming. “Then 
the rest of us can slip inside to help Petal.” 

Firestar nodded. “Right. Sharpclaw and Patchfoot, 
you do the fighting. Make as much noise as you like, 
but wait for my signal. Leafdapple and Rainfur, come 
with me.” 

With the rogue and the tabby she-cat just behind 
him, Firestar slipped through the long grass until he 
stood below Petal. She was gazing out with her nose 
pressed to the shiny window. 

Rainfur jumped up beside her again and beckoned 


Firestar with his tail. “Come on,” he meowed. “Tell her 
what she has to do.” 

Motioning to Leafdapple to stay where she was, 
Firestar leaped up onto the ledge beside the rogue. 
Every hair on his pelt tingled with pity as he got a good 
look at Petal for the first time. Her pelt was such a 
pale gray that it was almost white, and she was so 
gaunt with hunger that Firestar could see every one of 
her ribs. Her blue eyes were wide and pleading. 

A bit of the transparent stuff had broken away, 
leaving a gap big enough for a cat to squeeze through, 
but it was blocked by a piece of wood, trapping Petal 
and the kits inside. 

“Rainfur says you'll help my kits,’ Petal mewed, 
putting her mouth close to the edge of the wood. 

Firestar quickly told her what he and the other 
warriors had decided to do. “Once the door is open, 
the three of us can get inside,” he told her. “We’ll bring 
you and the kits out, and join the others. Just be ready 
to run when I tell you.” 

Petal nodded. “I’m ready now.” 

“Okay, let’s do it.” Firestar jumped down into the 
grass again beside Leafdapple. As soon as Rainfur 


joined them, he waved his tail to where he could see 
Sharpclaw and Patchfoot crouching at the edge of the 
bushes. 

Immediately Sharpclaw let out a fearsome screech. 
Patchfoot jomed in with an eerie caterwauling. The 
two toms sprang at each other and rolled over together 
in the grass, their yowling and hissing growing louder 
and louder. 

A moment later Firestar heard a Twoleg voice 
coming from the nest, bellowing in rage. 

“Its working!” Leafdapple whispered. 

The door of the nest flew open. A Twoleg emerged, 
his pelts tattered and his eyes bulging with fury. He 
had some Twoleg things clutched in each hand. Still 
bellowing, he flung one of them at the battling cats; it 
flew over their heads and crashed into the bushes. 

“Now!” Firestar yowled. 

He led the other two cats along the wall of the nest 
until they reached the door and slipped inside. Firestar 
recognized a Twoleg kitchen, and drew his lips back at 
the stench of rotting Twoleg food that rolled out to 
meet them. 

Rainfur flicked his tail toward an inside door that 


stood half-open. “This way.” 

As Firestar followed him he heard another thump 
from outside and an even louder screech. StarClan 
help us! he prayed, hoping that the Twoleg hadn’t 
managed to hit one of the warriors. 

Beyond the door was a small, dark den. Petal was 
crouching over a wooden nest beside the wall. A filthy 
Twoleg pelt covered the bottom; on it lay a gray kit and 
a pale gray tabby, squirming and mewling helplessly. 
An empty bowl stood beside the nest, with traces of 
kittypet food crusted inside and a couple of flies 
buzzing around tt. 

“Poor little scraps!” Leafdapple exclaimed, bending 
over to nose the two kits gently. 

“Are you sure it’s safe?” Petal asked, her eyes wide 
with fear. “My Twoleg will see us!” 

“Your Twoleg has other things to think about,” 
Rainfur told her. “Come on.” 

Petal gripped one of the kits in her jaws by the 
scruff, then stood up and headed for the door, 
staggering slightly. 

“Give me the kit,” Firestar directed. “Leafdapple, 
you take the other one. Rainfur, help Petal.” 


When he had the kit in a firm grip he signaled with 
his tail for the others to follow him outside. But as they 
slipped out of the nest a shadow blocked the light from 
the outer door. The Twoleg stood there, yowling and 
waving his forepaws. 

Firestar flashed a glance at Leafdapple and the two 
of them split apart, dodging past the Twoleg on either 
side. A huge, hairless pink paw swooped down on 
Firestar, but before it could grab him Rainfur flung 
himself at the Twoleg, slashing the paw with his claws. 
The Twoleg let out a screech of pain. Looking back 
over his shoulder, Firestar caught a glimpse of Petal 
raking her claws down the Twoleg’s hind leg. 

Firestar shot through the outer door into the garden. 
Setting down the kit, he signaled to Leafdapple to join 
the other warriors in the bushes. Then he whirled to 
join the fight, but Rainfur and Petal were already 
fleeing out of the nest behind him. Snatching up the kit 
again he raced for the fence, where Sharpclaw was 
waiting beside the gap. He shoved Petal and Rainfur 
through to Leafdapple. By now, the Twoleg was 
lumbering across the garden toward them. 

“Get a move on!” Sharpclaw hissed. 


Firestar slipped through the gap; the ginger warrior 
followed, and the whole patrol pelted through the 
woods with the yowls of the Twoleg dying away 
behind them. They didn’t stop until they had crossed 
the SkyClan scent markers near the top of the cliff. 

For a few heartbeats, all the cats could do was 
catch their breath. Petal was leaning heavily on 
Rainfur’s shoulder, but she staggered toward her kits 
as soon as Firestar and Leafdapple set them down. 

“What if my Twoleg comes after us?” she mewed 
anxiously. “What if he tries to steal my kits back?” 

“We’ll stop him,’ Rainfur promised, pressing his 
muzzle into her shoulder. 

We? Firestar thought, though he said nothing. Was 
Rainfur beginning to appreciate the support that he 
could expect from a Clan? 

Petal sank down beside her kits and covered them 
with comforting licks. The kits burrowed into her pale 
belly fur, still mewing in distress as they tried to suckle. 

“T haven’t enough milk for them.” Petal’s eyes were 
filled with grief as she gazed up at Firestar. “They’re 
going to die.” 

“No, they’re not,” Firestar assured her. “We’ll take 


them back to our camp and look after them there.” 
Clovertail still had milk, and she wouldn’t refuse to help 
these pitiful scraps. 

Hope glimmered in the gray she-cat’s eyes. “Will 
you really? Oh, thank you!” 

Leafdapple brushed gently against her pelt. “You 
don’t have to worry anymore.” 

When they reached the camp, Sandstorm and the 
others were just returning from their training session. 
Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw bounded up eagerly to 
see the kits, with Clovertail’s kits hard on their paws. 

“You did it!” Cherrypaw exclaimed. “I wish we’d 
been there to help.” 

“It wasn’t hard.” Sharpclaw twitched his whiskers 
in satisfaction. “You should have seen that stupid 
Twoleg blundering about.” 

Sandstorm approached the kits and gave each of 
them a gentle sniff. Her tail lashed furiously. “Why did 
the Twoleg want kittypets if he treated them like this?” 

“It wasn’t so bad before the kits came,’ Petal 
mewed. “T could get out of the nest to catch mice. But 
once they were born the Twoleg blocked the 
window....” 


“You don’t have to explain.” Clovertail thrust 
forward and touched noses with Petal. “Bring them up 
to the nursery and PI feed them.” She turned to her 
own kits and gave them a hard stare. “You three stay 
down here, and let these kits sleep in peace for a bit. 
And don t get into mischief.” 

“What, us?” Rockkit stretched his eyes wide. 

“Don’t worry,” Cherrypaw assured their mother. 
“Sparrowpaw and I will keep an eye on them. Come 
on, you lot.” She waved her tail to beckon the kits. 
“We’ll teach you the hunter’s crouch.” 

Their eyes sparkling with delight, Clovertail’s three 
kits marched off after the apprentice, back up the 
gorge toward the training area. 

“We’re not the littlest anymore!” Tinykit mewed 
gleefully. 

When they had gone, Clovertail led the way up to 
the nursery and settled down in her mossy nest. The 
cave was dim and cool, the boulder at the entrance 
blocking off most of the direct sunlight. 

Firestar and Leafdapple laid the two kits next to 
Clovertail’s belly; within a heartbeat they were both 
suckling eagerly, pressed against her soft fur. 


Petal gazed at them as if she couldn’t believe what 
she was seeing. “I can’t thank you enough,” she 
whispered. She staggered as if her legs wouldn’t hold 
her up any longer, and Leafdapple helped her to lie 
down in the soft moss next to Clovertail and her kits. 

“They’re beautiful kits,’ Clovertail murmured. 
“What are their names?” 

“That’s Mint,” Petal replied, pointing with her ears 
at the gray kit. “And that one is Sage,” she added, 
indicating the pale gray tabby. “I used to look through 
the window at the herbs in the Twoleg garden.” 

Mintkit and Sagekit, Firestar thought, wondering if 
Petal would want her kits to grow up in the Clan. 

‘Pll fetch you some  fresh-kill” Leafdapple 
promised, and slipped out past the boulder at the 
entrance. 

Firestar said good-bye to the two she-cats and 
followed Leafdapple out. Sandstorm was waiting for 
him a few pawsteps down the stony trail. 

“Petal will need something to help her regain her 
strength,’ she murmured when Firestar joined her. 
“She looks so weak and ill.” 

“Do you know what to do for her?” Firestar asked. 


“Juniper berries for strength, Cinderpelt said,’ the 
ginger she-cat replied. “But I don’t know where to find 
them.” Her tail tip twitched. “They need a medicine 
cat, don’t they?” 

Firestar shook his head. “It’s not for us to decide,” 
he meowed. “Medicine cats are chosen by StarClan. 
And I haven’t had any signs at all.” 

“Well, I wish StarClan would get a move on,” 
Sandstorm responded tartly. “Meanwhile, I’ Il do what I 
can for Petal. PI ask Sharpclaw if he knows where 
Juniper grows.” She padded off to join the ginger 
rogue, who was crouched beside the fresh-kill pile. 

Firestar spotted Rainfur a few fox-lengths farther up 
the cliff, outside the warriors’ den. When Firestar 
climbed up to join him, he sprang to his paws. “Will 
they be okay?” 

“They'll be fine,” Firestar meowed, hoping that was 
true. “Why don’t you go and see?” 

“T will, if no cat minds.” Rainfur gave his chest fur a 
couple of embarrassed licks. 

Firestar guessed he felt awkward about entering the 
SkyClan dens. “You’re welcome to stay here as long 
as you want,” he mewed. 


Rainfur met his gaze steadily. “Thanks, Firestar. I 


33 


“We would have done the same for any cat.” 

“I wanted to say I’m sorry about what I said at the 
meeting,” Rainfur meowed. “And Pd like to stay with 
you, for a while at least. Petal’s not strong enough to 
go anywhere yet, and the kits need Clovertail to feed 
them. But only if that’s okay,” he added. 

“Of course. We’ll be glad to have you.” 

Even while he welcomed Rainfur to the gorge, 
Firestar felt uneasy. The gray rogue were treating him 
as if he was SkyClan’s leader. He wasn’t, and he 
didn’t want to be. The sooner he could find a real 
leader, the better. Sharpclaw seemed the obvious 
choice: he was strong and brave, and his fighting skills 
were better than any other cat’s. But he had looked 
too interested at the meeting when Firestar explained 
that a Clan leader received nine lives. That was the 
wrong reason to look for Clan leadership, because it 
could make a cat foolhardy about leaping into danger 
—those lives were easily lost if not treated with 
respect. 

This isn t your choice, he reminded himself. A true 


Clan leader should be approved by StarClan. He 
looked up to where the sky was flooded with scarlet 
from the setting sun. It was still too early for the stars 
to show. 

Do you walk these skies? he silently asked 
SkyClan’s warrior ancestors. If you’re there, please 
show me which is the right cat to lead this Clan. 


CHAPTER 28 


Cherrypaw crouched at the edge of the training 
area, her tail lashing from side to side and her eyes 
gleaming. Her tortoiseshell fur bristled as she sprang 
forward, her claws lashing at her mentor’s shoulders. 
Sharpclaw dodged to one side, trying to hook the young 
she-cat’s paws from under her; she barreled into him, 
and both cats wrestled together in the sand. 

“Well done!” Firestar meowed. “Cherrypaw, you’ ve 
learned that move really well.” 

Both cats sat up, panting and shaking sand out of 
their pelts. Cherrypaw cast a triumphant glance at her 
mentor. ‘TIl beat you one day,” she told him. 

“I hope you will,” Sharpclaw replied calmly. “My job 
will be done then.” 

“I think that’s enough battle training for today.” 
Firestar rose to his paws. “Sharpclaw, when 
Sparrowpaw gets back from hunting patrol, I thought 
you and Leafdapple could give the two apprentices an 
assessment.” 

“What’s that?” Cherrypaw asked curiously. 


“Your mentor gives you a task,” Firestar explained. 
“Usually to go and hunt in a particular place. Then they 
follow you and see how you get on, but you won’t see 
them. In ThunderClan every apprentice—” 

He broke off at the sound of pawsteps dashing 
along the gorge, and a cat yowling his name. Spinning 
around, he caught sight of Sparrowpaw, his tabby fur 
bristling and his amber eyes wide with fear. 

“We've been attacked!” He gasped. “Patchfoot’s 
hurt.” 

“Show me,” Firestar snapped. 

Sparrowpaw turned and raced back down the 
gorge; Firestar followed, with Sharpclaw and 
Cherrypaw hard on his paws. 

When he rounded the curve and passed the 
Rockpile, Firestar saw Shortwhisker and Sandstorm 
dragging Patchfoot down the lowest part of the trail to 
lay him in the shade of the cliff. His head hung limply 
and his tail dragged in the sand; blood dripped from a 
wound in his shoulder. Firestar’s belly lurched. 

When he padded up to Patchfoot’s side he saw that 
his chest was heaving with rapid, shallow breaths. His 
eyes were open, filled with pain and fear. 


“What happened?” Firestar asked, turning to 
Sandstorm. 

Sandstorm rested her tail reassuringly on 
Patchfoot’s uninjured shoulder. “Don’t worry,” she 
mewed. “We’ll fix you up as good as new.” Giving her 
attention to Firestar, she went on, “We were attacked 
by rats outside the abandoned Twoleg barn.” 

“More rats than you’ve ever seen in your life!” 
Shortwhisker gasped. His fur was still fluffed out with 
shock. 

Icy claws pricked Firestar’s spine. “I knew there 
was something wrong with that place,” he meowed. 

“We fought them off,’ Sandstorm continued, “but 
two of them jumped on Patchfoot.” 

“You're wounded yourself,’ Firestar pointed out, 
noticing a patch of fur matted with blood on her side. 

Sandstorm twitched her ears. “That’s nothing. P1 
see to it when I’ve done what I can for Patchfoot.” 

By this time, more of the cats had appeared: 
Leafdapple came down from the warriors’ den, while 
Petal and Rainfur, who had been playing with their kits 
a little way downriver, padded up and gazed anxiously 
at the wounded warrior. 


“Will he die?” Petal’s voice quavered. 

“Not if I can help it,’ Sandstorm replied. 
“Cherrypaw, go to the Whispering Cave and get me 
some moss. Sparrowpaw, you go into some of the 
unused caves and bring me as many cobwebs as you 
can find.” 

Sparrowpaw’s whiskers quivered with surprise. 
“Cobwebs?” 

“To stop the bleeding.” Sandstorm flicked her tail at 
him. “Hurry!” 

Once the two apprentices had scurried off, Firestar 
and Leafdapple picked up Patchfoot and carried him to 
the lowest cave, which Skywatcher had told them once 
belonged to the Clan’s medicine cat. There was a large 
outer cave with some scrapes in the floor, and a 
smaller, deeper cave beyond it that would have been 
the medicine cat’s den. In a niche in the rock 
Sandstorm had discovered a few ancient, crumbled 
leaves, and the scent of sweet herbs seemed to hang in 
the air. 

Patchfoot let out a groan when his Clanmates 
moved him, and by the time they laid him down in the 
medicine cat’s cave he had lost consciousness. 


“Do you think you can help him?” Firestar asked. 

Sandstorm’s green eyes were anxious. “I don’t 
know. I can stop the bleeding with cobwebs, but I’m 
worried the wounds will get infected. Cinderpelt would 
use marigold or horsetail, but I don’t know where they 
grow around here.” 

“I do.” The voice was Petals; the pale gray cat had 
followed them and was looking in through the cave 
entrance. “There’s marigold in my Twoleg’s garden.” 

Sandstorm spun around, hope gleaming in her green 
eyes. “Can you get some?” 

Petal flattened her ears; Firestar could see that she 
was trembling. “How...how important is it?” 

“Very,” Sandstorm replied. 

Petal straightened her shoulders. “Then I'll go fetch 
some.” 

“Oh, no, you won’t.” Rainfur appeared beside Petal. 
“PIL go. I know where the marigold grows.” He gave 
Petal’s ear a lick. “You look after the kits, and I’ll be 
back before you know it.” 

“That would be great,” Firestar meowed. 

Rainfur darted off, and Firestar padded over to 
Petal. “Thanks for offering, but you shouldn’t have to 


go back to that Twoleg nest again.” 

Petal looked up at him, her eyes wide with guilt. 
“Sometimes I think I should have stayed with my 
Twoleg,” she murmured. “But I can’t bear even to 
think about him.” 

“You don’t have to,” Firestar told her. “You’re safe 
here.” 

Petal dipped her head and went out, calling to her 
kits. 

Sandstorm crouched down beside Patchfoot and 
began to clean the blood from his shoulder wound with 
strong rasps of her tongue. Firestar watched her for a 
couple of heartbeats, then went back outside, passing 
Cherrypaw as she entered with a huge bundle of moss. 

The rest of the Clan was gathered around 
Shortwhisker, listening to his account of the rat attack. 
“And then they poured out of the barn as thick as a 
river!” he meowed. “You couldn’t see the ground for 
rats.” 

“That’s enough.” Firestar stepped forward and 
silenced the tabby warrior with a flick of his tail. The 
Clan was shocked enough by Patchfoot’s injuries 
without hearing exaggerated stories of how he came 


by them. “I’ve dealt with rats before,’ he went on. 
“They’re nasty creatures, but a strong patrol of cats 
can beat them. Sharpclaw, you can come with me. 
And Cherrypaw...” He waved the apprentice over as 
she reappeared from the medicine cat’s cave. “We’ll 
go and check this out for ourselves.” 

“Aren’t you glad you practiced those fighting 
moves?” Sharpclaw muttered to his apprentice. 

Cherrypaw’s only reply was an enthusiastic wave of 
her tail; her eyes were gleaming with excitement. 

“Leafdapple, you’re in charge of the camp while 
we’re away. If I were you, I would get all the kits 
inside the nursery with Clovertail, and then guard the 
entrance. Just in case.” 

The tabby she-cat dipped her head. “Don’t worry, 
Firestar. We’ll be fine.” She bounded off to round up 
the kits. 

Firestar took a last look at the camp, then led the 
way up the stony trails to the top of the cliff. There 
was no scent of rats here, just the hot reek of 
Patchfoot’s blood, but he ordered the patrol to keep 
silent, and crept as stealthily as he could through the 
undergrowth and across the scrubland toward the 


Twoleg barn. 

Long before he reached it he began to pick up a 
strong rat scent, and as he and his patrol drew closer 
the sense of a malevolent force, of cold eyes watching 
him from the shadows, swept over him again. Firestar 
shivered to the roots of his pelt. 

Rats! 

That was what he had sensed in the undergrowth 
downstream. Rats whose hatred of cats spilled out like 
a dark, poisonous river. He was surprised at the 
strength of that hatred, and how focused it was. The 
rats he had met before had been vicious, but not like 
this, purposeful and cunning. 

Everythng was quiet as the SkyClan patrol 
approached the shiny fence that surrounded the barn. 
The ragged holes in the walls seemed to stare at them, 
but except for the scent there was no sign of a rat. 

“Firestar, over here!” Sharpclaw was sniffing a little 
farther along the fence, beckoning his leader with his 
tail. 

When he joined the ginger tom, Firestar saw the 
ground torn up by claws, and patches of soil still 
darkened by clots of blood. 


“This must be where the attack happened,” 
Sharpclaw mewed. 

Firestar nodded. Just beyond the clawed-up area 
was a gap at the bottom of the shiny fence, big enough 
for a cat to squeeze through. For a heartbeat his paws 
froze to the ground; then he gave his pelt a shake. This 
was just a gang of rats, nothing that he couldn’t cope 
with, as long as he had strong warriors to back him up. 

“Okay,” he murmured. “We’re going in. Cherrypaw, 
follow me. Sharpclaw, keep a lookout behind.” 

Ears pricked and whiskers twitching, he slid through 
the gap and padded softly across the white stone 
surface toward the barn. There was still no sign of 
movement. Firestar would have liked to think that 
Sandstorm’s patrol had frightened the rats off, if it 
weren’t for that overwhelming sensation of being 
watched. 

“Are we going inside?” Sharpclaw asked. 

“Not if we don’t have to,” Firestar replied. “They 
can do what they like on their own territory. We’ll just 
take a look around outside and then—” 

He broke off, every hair on his pelt rising in horror. 
With a patter of tiny paws, rats had begun pouring out 


of one of the holes in the walls of the barn, more rats 
than he had seen in his life, more than he could have 
imagined living in one barn. Whipping around, he saw 
yet more emerging from another hole. The two 
streams flowed around the three cats, a whispering 
torrent of brown bodies and long, thin tails. None of 
them squeaked; there was just the small, terrible sound 
of their scampering feet as they moved steadily, 
purposefully, into position. Firestar and his patrol were 
surrounded; an unbroken mass of rats stood a tail- 
length away from them, blocking the route to the gap in 
the fence. Their tiny glittering eyes were filled with 
malice. 

Shortwhisker didn’t exaggerate! Firestar thought in 
horror. You really cant see the ground for rats. 

Sharpclaw had dropped into a crouch, ready to 
spring, his teeth drawn back in a snarl. Firestar stood 
beside him, flicking a glance at Cherrypaw. The young 
tortoiseshell’s eyes were glazed with terror, but she 
was facing her enemies and trying to stand firm, even 
though her legs were trembling. 

“Okay,” Firestar murmured. “When I raise my tail, 
head for the fence.” 


Sharpclaw acknowledged the order with a lash of 
his tail. Firestar tensed, ready to give the signal, and 
wished he could have said good-bye to Sandstorm. But 
before he could move, the mass of rats parted and a 
single rat stepped out into the gap between them and 
the cats. It was bigger than most of the others, with a 
wiry, muscular body and curving yellow teeth. 

“Fine,” Sharpclaw growled. “You want to die first, 
do you?” 

The rat’s wedge-shaped head swung back and forth 
as its malignant gaze flicked from cat to cat, and it 
began to speak. To Firestar’s astonishment he could 
understand what it said, though the words were so 
twisted it was hard to make them out. 

“Rats not die.” Its voice grated like a claw dragged 
over stone. “Cats die.” 

Sharpclaw slid his claws out. “You’re sure of that, 
are you?” 

“Leave,” the rat went on. “All cats leave. We killed 
you before; now we kill you again.” 

“You killed us before?” Firestar exclaimed. 

“This time we let black-and-white cat live.” The 
rat’s eyes glittered with hatred. “But only this time. 


You stay by river, you die.” 

It kinked its tail over its back, and as if they had 
been waiting for the signal the other rats separated into 
two streams again and flowed back into the barn. The 
rat who had spoken slid in among them and was lost to 
sight. 

Firestar flicked his tail toward the gap. “Go!” 

While Cherrypaw and Sharpclaw squeezed out into 
the scrubland, Firestar turned to face the barn. His 
heart was thumping hard enough to break out of his 
chest. “The gorge is our place,” he yowled after the 
river of retreating bodies. “We will not leave.” 

Then he spun around, slid through the gap, and 
raced across the open ground with Cherrypaw and 
Sharpclaw by his side. They didn’t stop until they 
reached the shelter of the bushes at the top of the cliff. 

‘Tve never seen so many rats!” Cherrypaw panted, 
her eyes wide. 

“Nor have I,” Firestar admitted. “And I’ve never 
come across a rat who could speak to cats before.” 

Sharpclaw was giving himself a quick grooming, as 
if he was trying to hide how troubled he was. “I’ve 
never met one, but I’ve heard of rats like that—rats 


who could think, and plan, and hate. My mother used 
to tell me stories, and I thought that’s all they were— 
just stories.” 

“I wish they were.” Firestar’s alarm was growing. 
“He said, ‘We killed you before.’ I’ve got a horrible 
feeling I know what he meant.” 

“What?” Cherrypaw asked. 

Firestar wasn’t ready to reply; there was something 
he needed to check. Waving his tail for the others to 
follow, he pushed through the bushes to the cliff top 
and down the trail as far as the warriors’ den. 

“Look at that,’ he mewed, pointing with his tail to 
the scratches on the column of rock by the entrance. 

“Yes, our ancestors’ claw marks.” Sharpclaw 
nodded. 

“Look at the smaller claw marks at the bottom, the 
ones that go across instead of up and down. I always 
assumed that kits made them, but now I think they’re 
the marks of rats.” Peering more closely at the marks, 
Firestar matched them in his memory with the tiny 
claws of rats. No kit would have claws so thorn-sharp. 

Cherrypaw’s eyes stretched wide. “Rats came 
here?” 


Firestar nodded. ‘“We’ve always known that 
something drove the first SkyClan cats out of here and 
scattered them so that the Clan was destroyed. Now I 
think we know what that ‘something’ was.” 

“Rats!” Sharpclaw snarled. 

“Rats,” Firestar agreed. 

Gazing down at the thin claw marks, scored across 
the ones made by cats, Firestar found it was easy to 
imagine hordes of rats pouring into the gorge and 
overwhelming the SkyClan warriors. They had set 
their marks in this cave to proclaim thei victory. 
Firestar had no doubt that he was looking at a record 
of SkyClan’s defeat. 

This was the secret that Skywatcher had refused to 
tell him, the secret of how the first SkyClan had been 
driven from the gorge. The rats’ hatred had been 
passed down and now it was being nourished by the 
leader Firestar and his patrol had met outside the barn 
—the rat who spoke cat, who must have learned to 
speak the language of his enemies to let them know 
exactly what he would do to them. He would stop at 
nothing to rid his territory of cats, just as his ancestors 
had done long ago. 


Firestar worked his claws in the sandy floor. Were 
SkyClan doomed to be driven out of their homes again, 
just as their ancestors had been? 

He padded out of the den and gazed across the 
gorge. Clouds covered the sky, though there was a 
pale gleam of light where the sun was trying to break 
through. Slowly the clouds shifted into a pattern of light 
and dark, until the SkyClan ancestor’s face was 
looking down at him with eyes full of wisdom. 
Firestar’s paws seemed to freeze to the rock, and 
every hair on his pelt tingled. Why should the SkyClan 
ancestor appear now, when Firestar had not seen him 
for so long? Somehow Firestar was convinced it must 
be because there was a way to defeat the rats and 
save the Clan. 

The clouds shifted again and the face of the 
ancestor disappeared. But the encouragement he had 
given Firestar flowed through his body from ears to tail 
tip. “Come on,” he meowed, glancing over his shoulder 
at Sharpclaw. “I’m going to call a Clan meeting.” 


“Cats of SkyClan.” Firestar stood on top of the 


Rockpile, his flame-colored pelt gleaming in a shaft of 
sunshine. “You heard what happened today, first to 
Sandstorm’s patrol and then when I went back with 
Sharpclaw and Cherrypaw. Now we have to decide 
what we’re going to do.” 

Pausing, he let his gaze travel over the Clan below. 
All the cats were sitting close to one another, as if they 
needed the physical support of their Clanmates. Petal 
was missing, looking after the kits in the nursery cave, 
but Rainfur was here, even though he wasn’t a Clan 
warrior. Sandstorm was sitting at the mouth of the 
medicine cat’s den, where she could keep an eye on 
Patchfoot and still listen to what was being said at the 
meeting. 

“Can we do anything?” Leafdapple asked. “If there 
are aS many rats as you say, how can we possibly beat 
them?” Her eyes met Firestar’s as she spoke; she 
wasn’t frightened or despairing, but Firestar could tell 
she saw no point in facing a battle they couldn’t win. 

He knew he had to be honest with her. “It’s going to 
be tough. Pve never come across rats like these 
before. But we don’t have to kill them all. Just enough 
to make them stay in their own territory.” 


“They drove out the first SkyClan,’ Sparrowpaw 
mewed nervously. “Why should we be any different?” 
Shortwhisker murmured agreement, his whiskers 
twitching. 

“At least we know what we have to face,” Firestar 
replied. He scraped his claws along the rock, 
desperate to turn this huddle of shaken cats into a Clan 
of loyal, determined warriors. “Your warrior ancestors 
are watching you now,” he told them, hoping it was 
true. “You should fight for their sakes, not just your 
own. This is your chance to take revenge!” 

“Why?” Cherrypaw demanded. “We’ve never met 
our warrior ancestors. Okay, we’re living in their 
camp, but that doesn’t mean we have to fight their 
battles.” 

Clovertail nodded, taking a pawstep that brought her 
to the young tortoiseshell’s side. “Cherrypaw is right. 
We’ve got to decide what’s right for us, not for some 
dead cats who already lost their battle.” 

Firestar winced; Clovertail’s words were harsh, but 
she had a point. 

“And what about the kits?” Shortwhisker fretted. 
“They can’t fight. But the rats will kill them if they 


come here.” 

Rainfur bared his teeth. “Over my dead body.” 

Firestar gazed frustratedly down at them. 
Shortwhisker obviously didn’t understand the warrior 
code that would protect the weakest members of the 
Clan above all else. And Rainfur didn’t seem to realize 
that he could rely on the Clan for help. 

Before he could speak again, Sharpclaw stepped 
forward. “What are you, warriors or mice? Are you 
going to let prey beat you? I'll fight to the death if 
necessary—and as often as I have to,” he added, with 
a dark look at Firestar. 

Firestar tensed. Sharpclaw couldn’t have given a 
more obvious hint that he expected to be chosen as 
Clan leader. But at least he seemed to have shaken off 
some of the despondency that had settled over the 
Clan like a clinging fog. 

“There’s no pomt in every warrior fighting to the 
death,” Firestar pointed out quietly. “Then there would 
be no Clan left to fight for. But think about this,” he 
went on. “If you don’t want to fight for your warrior 
ancestors, then how about fighting for yourselves? 
You’ve achieved so much—making a home here, 


rescuing Petal and her kits. Isn’t that worth fighting 
for?” 

His heartbeat quickened when he saw that he was 
reaching them at last. “This is a good home for you,” 
he meowed, waving his tail to take in the river and the 
caves of the camp. “You’ve all worked hard for it, and 
you deserve to be here. Are you going to let the rats 
drive you out?” 

“No! We’re staying,” Sharpclaw hissed. “And we’ll 
tear the throats out of any rats who try to stop us.” 

“Yes!” Cherrypaw screeched, springing forward. 

“We’ll fight!” Sparrowpaw jumped up to stand 
beside them, and the rest of the Clan yowled in 
agreement. “We’ll fight!” 

Firestar gazed over their heads to where Sandstorm 
was still sitting outside the medicine cat’s den. Their 
eyes met. 

Oh, StarClan, Firestar thought, I hope I’m not 
leading them to their deaths. 


CHAPTER 29 


“How is Patchfoot?” Firestar asked as he slipped 
into the medicine cat’s cave. Night had fallen, and the 
half-moon shed silver light into the gorge. Back in the 
forest the medicine cats would be traveling to 
Highstones for their twice-moon meeting. Firestar 
wished he had the benefit of Cinderpelt’s wisdom now. 

Sandstorm looked up as Firestar entered, her eyes 
filled with sorrow. “He’s getting worse,” she mewed. 
“His wound is infected—just what I was afraid of.” 

“You’ve tried marigold?” Firestar asked, padding 
forward to look down at Patchfoot. The black-and- 
white warrior shifted restlessly in his sleep and let out 
a moan of pain. 

Sandstorm nodded. “Petal and Rainfur brought me 
plenty, but it’s not doing any good. I wish there was 
something stronger to use for rat bites, but if there 1s, 
Cinderpelt didn’t tell me.” She lashed her tail in 
frustration. 

“You couldn’t learn everything in the time you had 
before we left,’ Firestar consoled her. “I know you’re 


doing your best.” 

“It’s a pretty poor best if Patchfoot dies.” 

Firestar wanted to reassure her, but he knew the 
words would sound empty. He could feel the heat of 
fever rising from Patchfoot’s body. His legs twitched 
as Firestar watched; he opened eyes glazed with pain 
and let out another moan. 

Sandstorm rested her tail tip soothingly on his head; 
the black-and-white tom’s eyes closed again and he 
seemed to sink back into a quieter sleep. 

“He can’t go on like this,’ Sandstorm murmured. 
“No cat has the strength.” 

Firestar rasped his tongue over her ear, but before 
he could say anything to comfort her, he heard a soft 
pawstep behind him. A sweet scent drifted around him 
and every hair on his pelt started to tingle. 
Spottedleaf! 

Spinning around, he saw the pale outline of a 
tortoiseshell cat with the frosty glimmer of StarClan 
around her. She set down a mouthful of herbs and 
padded up to settle close by Patchfoot, between 
Firestar and Sandstorm. 

Am I dreaming? Firestar wondered. When did 1 


fall asleep? 

Then Sandstorm’s ears pricked; she turned and her 
eyes flew wide with astonishment. “Spottedleaf!” 

Firestar opened his jaws to speak, but at first not the 
faintest mew came out. How could Sandstorm see 
Spottedleaf if she was inside his dream? “Spottedleaf, 
how...?” 

Spottedleaf silenced him by touching noses with him. 
‘Tve come because you both need me.” She turned to 
the herbs she had set down and patted them over to 
Sandstorm. “Burdock root is best for rat bites.” 

Sandstorm was staring at the StarClan medicine cat 
as if she couldn’t believe what she was seeing. As the 
glossy green leaves rustled around her paws she 
blinked and looked down, sniffing the roots. “This will 
help Patchfoot?” 

Spottedleaf nodded. “Pll chew the root up. You 
clean the marigold off his wound.” 

As if she had made up her mind not to think too 
closely about what was happening, Sandstorm began 
licking the chewed-up marigold from Patchfoot’s 
shoulder. Firestar watched numbly as Spottedleaf 
crouched down beside the burdock, tucked her paws 


underneath her chest, and began to chew one of the 
roots. When the pulp was ready she showed 
Sandstorm how to use it, patting it well down into the 
wound. 

Patchfoot stirred uneasily; Spottedleaf bent over 
him. “Sleep now,” she whispered into his ear. “All will 
be well; I promise.” 

As if he could hear her, Patchfoot sighed and 
seemed to settle more quietly. 

Sandstorm blinked anxiously. “Will he really get 
better now?” 

Spottedleaf nodded. “Just keep putting the root on 
his shoulder. You'll find more in the wood by the 
stream that marks the boundary. Show the leaves to 
your warriors; then they’ll know what to look for.” 

“Thank you, Spottedleaf;’ Firestar meowed. 
Brushing his pelt against the medicine cat’s, he added, 
“I didn’t know you could come so far to help us. I 
haven’t seen you since we left the forest.” 

Too late, he realized that Sandstorm was bristling 
beside him. “You mean you’ve seen Spottedleaf 
before?” 

Firestar faced her to see anger and hurt in her green 


eyes. “Spottedleaf visits me in dreams. She helps me 


“You never told me!” 

Firestar’s belly churned with guilt. He knew how 
insecure Sandstorm felt when she thought about 
Spottedleaf, knowing the connection she had shared 
with Firestar when she had been ThunderClan’s 
medicine cat. But he had never felt that he was 
betraying her by meeting Spottedleaf in his dreams. 

Before he could reply, Spottedleaf slipped between 
the two of them and laid her tail tip gently on 
Sandstorm’s shoulder. “Peace, dear one,’ she 
murmured. “Firestar loves you.” 

“He loves you more.” Sandstorm’s voice was 
choked. 

Spottedleaf hesitated, her amber eyes warm as she 
gazed at the ginger she-cat. “That’s not true. Firestar 
and I never discovered what we might have meant to 
each other,’ she mewed at last. “I was alive in the 
forest for such a short time after he came to 
ThunderClan. But I know for sure”—her voice grew 
more intense—“that he and I could never have been 
mates. I was and always will be a medicine cat. That 


comes first, more than any cat who walks the forest, 
more even than Firestar.” 

Sandstorm searched the tortoiseshell cat’s face. “Is 
that really true?” 

“Of course,” Spottedleaf purred. “Even now I’m a 
medicine cat, not for my Clanmates in StarClan, but for 
all the cats in the forest below.” 

“I love you, Sandstorm,” Firestar put in. “You'll 
never be second-best for me. My love for you belongs 
here and now, in the life we share—and it will last for 
all the moons to come, I promise.” 

Sandstorm looked from Spottedleaf to Firestar and 
back again. At last she took a long breath. “Thank you, 
Spottedleaf. P’ ve never stopped thinking about how you 
and Firestar seemed to belong together when he first 
came to the forest. But I understand better now.” 

“T thought you always knew how I felt about you,” 
Firestar mewed, bewildered. 

Sandstorm blinked at him. Even though her eyes 
were full of love, there was a trace of exasperation 
there too. “Firestar, you can be so dense.” 

Spottedleaf dipped her head. “I must go, but we will 
meet again, I promise. Until then, may StarClan light 


your path.” 

“Good-bye, and thank you—not just for the burdock 
root,” Firestar meowed. 

The tortoiseshell she-cat padded toward the cave 
entrance and paused for a heartbeat, her pelt brushing 
against his. Too softly for Sandstorm to hear, she 
murmured, “Sometimes I would give anything for 
things to be different.” 

She did not wait for a reply. The moonlight had 
faded; for a heartbeat her slender shape was outlined 
against the first pale light of dawn from the sky above 
the far side of the gorge; then she was gone. 

Sandstorm shook her head. “Have I been dreaming, 
or did that really happen?” 

Firestar stepped to her side and pressed his muzzle 
against her shoulder. “It really happened.” 

“T can’t believe she came to help us.” 

“There’ll never be another cat in the forest like her. 
But she’s not you, Sandstorm.” 

Sandstorm turned to gaze at him. “No more secrets, 
Firestar. I promise to try to understand how important 
Spottedleaf is to you, but I need to be able to trust 


” 


you. 


“You can,” Firestar vowed. 

Patchfoot let out a sigh, distracting Firestar from the 
depths of Sandstorm’s green eyes. The black-and- 
white warrior was quieter now, his breathing easier. 
He seemed to be sleeping more deeply. 

“He’s going to be all right,” Firestar mewed. “And I 
think the rest of the Clan will be, too.” 


“We’ll start extra battle training right away.” 
Firestar stood at the bottom of the Rockpile, with the 
SkyClan cats clustered around him. The sun had risen 
over the cliff top, casting long shadows down into the 
gorge. “We need to be as strong as possible when we 
go out to fight the rats.” 

Sandstorm stood beside him. Since Spottedleaf’s 
visit earlier that morning, Patchfoot had improved so 
much that she had told Firestar she could leave him for 
a while to come to this meeting. “Don’t wait too long,” 
she advised, with a twitch of her ears. “Otherwise the 
rats will come and we won’t be ready for them.” 

Firestar knew she was right. “I want a permanent 
watch on the Skyrock.” 


“We should send extra patrols out to the Twoleg 
barn, too,” Leafdapple suggested. 

Firestar nodded. “Right, but not too close. I don’t 
want a fight until we’re ready.” 

‘TI sort out the patrols,” Sandstorm meowed. “And 
the training schedules.” 

“Watches and extra patrols and battle training?” 
Cherrypaw’s eyes were wide with dismay. “It sounds 
like really hard work.” 

“You'd rather have your throat torn out by a rat?” 
Sharpclaw flicked his tail over the young tortoiseshell’s 
ear, and she sprang back with an indignant hiss. “My 
apprentice will do as she’s told, and do it without 
complaining.” 

Cherrypaw opened her jaws to protest, but Firestar 
silenced her with a flick of his ears. “We can get 
started,” he meowed, “unless you have any other 
suggestions?” 

Rainfur rose to his paws. “Petal and I want to be 
trained as well.” 

“That’s right.” Petal looked nervous to be speaking 
in front of the whole Clan. “The kits are too small for 
us to leave yet, and we want to be ready to defend 


ourselves.” 

“Thank you.” Firestar dipped his head. “We’re glad 
to have you. Sandstorm will add you to the training 
schedule.” 

“Either Clovertail or I must stay with the kits,” Petal 
pointed out. 

“Don’t worry,” Sandstorm replied. “P1 work around 
that. Are there any more questions? Right,” she went 
on when no cat responded, “Leafdapple and 
Sharpclaw, you can be the first patrol. Cherrypaw, will 
you keep watch on the Skyrock? Give me a few 
moments to check on Patchfoot, and then PI lead a 
trainng session with Sparrowpaw and Rainfur, and 
Petal, you can join us, as Clovertail’s with the kits right 
now.” 

“What about me?” Shortwhisker asked. 

“You can come with me on a hunting patrol,” 
Firestar replied. “We’ll need all the fresh-kill we can 
get to keep our strength up. One more thing,” he added 
before the cats split up for their duties. “No cat leaves 
the camp alone from now on. And every cat must stay 
alert. If the rats come, they'll find us ready and 
waiting.” 


He dismissed the meeting with a wave of his tail. 
Sharpclaw and Leafdapple sprang up the rocks toward 
the top of the cliff, and Cherrypaw followed, taking the 
trail that led to the Skyrock. Petal, Rainfur, and 
Sparrowpaw made their way up the gorge toward the 
training area. 

Asking Shortwhisker to wait for him, Firestar 
padded beside Sandstorm as she headed for the 
medicine cat’s cave. “You know, Cherrypaw was 
right,’ he meowed. “It will be hard work. We don’t 
have enough cats to prepare for a rat attack as well as 
all the regular duties.” He sighed. “I’d give my pelt to 
have a patrol of ThunderClan warriors here now.” 

“Well, you can’t.” Sandstorm rasped her tongue 
over his ear. “But don’t worry. You'll find a way. You 
defeated Scourge, and you’ll defeat these rats.” 

Firestar wished he shared her confidence. “At least 
Spottedleaf told us what to do for Patchfoot.” 

“True,” Sandstorm replied, “but it just goes to show 
how much we need a medicine cat.” 

“Medicine cats are born, not made. And I’ve yet to 
see any SkyClan cat show any connection with their 
warrior ancestors. None of them heard anything when 


they went into the Whispering Cave.” 

“We should have a cat who knows about herbs and 
can treat injuries, at least,’ Sandstorm pointed out, with 
an impatient twitch of her tail. “I could teach one of 
them what I know. It would be a start.” 

Firestar paused on the trail just below the entrance 
to the medicine cat’s den. “Sharpclaw wouldn’t do,” he 
mused. “He’s far too good a warrior. Clovertail has 
kits.... What about Shortwhisker?” 

Sandstorm shook her head. “He froze at the sight of 
blood when Patchfoot was injured.” 

“Leafdapple, then?” 

“Maybe...” Sandstorm mused. “She cares about 
weaker cats.” 

“T know,” Firestar decided. “If Spottedleaf visits me, 
I can ask her.” 

Sandstorm glanced away for a moment, then faced 
him again. “Yes, that’s a good idea,” she murmured. 


Firestar curled up in the warriors’ den, his legs 
aching and his head spinning with tiredness. Three 
days had passed since he had organized the new 


schedule of patrols and training, and every cat had 
been on their paws from dawn to sunset. That morning 
he had led a patrol to the Twoleg barn, then spent the 
rest of the day hunting. The moon was already 
climbing the sky before he had the chance to sleep, 
and he would have to wake later to take his turn 
watching on the Skyrock. 

How long can we keep this up? 

No sooner had Firestar closed his eyes than he 
found himself standing on the Skyrock. The moon 
floated high above his head and Silverpelt glittered 
across the sky. The night was silent except for the 
rushing of the river far below. 

Its not time for my watch yet! Firestar thought 
confusedly. 

“Greetings.” A voice spoke behind him, and Firestar 
spun around to see a cat standing on the very edge of 
the Skyrock. His thick gray fur was turned to silver by 
the moonlight, and his eyes shone like pale flames. 
Frosty starlight glimmered around his paws. 

Something about the cat was familiar; Firestar’s first 
thought was that he was the SkyClan ancestor who 
had been haunting him. Then he caught his breath as 


he picked up a trace of familiar scent. “Skywatcher!” 

The StarClan cat dipped his head. “It’s good to see 
you again, Firestar. Come on,” Skywatcher went on, 
proving that he had lost none of his sharp tongue. 
“Don’t stand there with your mouth open. We haven’t 
got all night.” 

Firestar made an effort to pull himself together. 
“Why have you come?” 

“SkyClan stands at a fork in the path,’ Skywatcher 
replied. “Danger is very near.” 

“You mean the rats? They’re what destroyed the 
first SkyClan, aren’t they? Why didn’t you tell me 
about them?” 

Skywatcher sat down and steadily met Firestar’s 
gaze. “What good would that have done? It would 
have been wrong to tell you if it made you give up. 
And how would it have helped you to know about 
SkyClan’s old enemies before they attacked? Now you 
have a Clan of strong warriors to stand against them.” 

“But are they strong enough?” Firestar murmured. 

“They must be ready to defend themselves,” 
Skywatcher replied. “Perhaps you should see these 
rats as the first challenge for the Clan to overcome. 


They will be even stronger afterward.” 

Firestar nodded; the StarClan cat was right, and yet 
he wondered how the Clan could be stronger if all its 
warriors were dead. Thinking about death reminded 
him that so far the Clan had no way of making contact 
with their warrior ancestors. 

“Can you tell me if SkyClan has a medicine cat 
yet?” he asked. “No Clan can survive long without 
one. What about Leafdapple?” 

Skywatcher twitched his ears. “No, that is not 
Leafdapple’s destiny.” 

“But we must have a medicine cat!” 

“Even now your medicine cat’s paws are on the 
path that will lead her to you,” Skywatcher told him. 
“But you must look farther than the cats of SkyClan. 
There is a cat who dreams of her warrior ancestors, 
but she has not heard of the new Clan.” 

“So I have to go and find her?” Firestar felt a tingle 
of excitement in his paws. “Where is she?” 

But Skywatcher did not reply. Rising to his paws, he 
swept his tail around in a gesture of farewell and 
leaped from the edge of the rock into the sky. Firestar 
bit back a yowl of alarm; any living cat who tried that 


would have crashed down onto the rocks below. 
Instead Skywatcher’s body dissolved midleap, leaving 
behind a faint glittering dust that faded as Firestar 
watched. A heartbeat later he opened his eyes inside 
the warriors’ den, with Shortwhisker prodding him to 
wake up and go to the Skyrock. 


“Sparrowpaw, you can be excused from battle 
training this morning,” Firestar announced. “I want you 
for a special mission.” 

The young tabby tom’s eyes gleamed with 
excitement. “What mission?” 

“I have to go to the Twolegplace, and I need a cat 
who knows his way around.” Quickly he explained to 
Sparrowpaw what Skywatcher had told him in his 
dream. 

Though Skywatcher hadn’t said that the new 
medicine cat lived among Twolegs, Firestar thought it 
was most likely. Sharpclaw and Leafdapple hadn’t told 
him about any other rogues living in the forest, and he 
couldn’t look farther afield because that would mean 
leaving SkyClan to face the rats without him. 


Not long ago they would have raced across the 
scrubland toward the Twolegplace; now they crept 
along, slinking from one patch of cover to the next, all 
their senses alert for any trace of rats. Firestar 
remembered how he had felt when the dog pack 
roamed the forest; it went against everything in the 
warrior code when cats were forced to behave like 
prey. 

Clouds scudded across the sky, driven by a cold 
wind. Leaves whirled in the air; the warmth of 
greenleaf would soon be no more than a memory. How 
would the Clan cope, Firestar wondered, through the 
harsh days of leaf-bare if they still had to guard against 
invasion from the rats? 

“T hate this,’ Sparrowpaw hissed as they crouched 
behind a gorse bush, spying out the next stage of their 
journey. “This waiting...it spooks me. Why don’t the 
rats just attack and get it over with? What are they 
waiting for?” 

“I can’t be sure.” Firestar flexed his claws. “But I’d 
guess the rats know exactly how unsettled we are by 
waiting. They think they’re going to win whenever 
they attack, so they’ve nothing to lose by making us 


suffer.” 

He didn’t add that the longer they waited, the more 
tired the Clan would become. Any cat could see that. 
The rats probably knew it too; they more were clever 
than any rats he had ever known. Firestar’s respect 
for them was growing every day, but that only made 
him hate them all the more. He would have led a patrol 
to fight the rats on their own territory, to attack them 
first and win the advantage of surprise, but for one 
thing: SkyClan didn’t have a medicine cat to heal their 
wounds or read the signs from StarClan. 

“Let’s keep going,” he muttered. 

As they paused in the shelter of the fence that 
surrounded the first Twoleg gardens, Sparrowpaw 
peered through a gap with a trace of sadness in his 
eyes. “That’s where Cherrypaw and I used to live,” he 
murmured. Defensively he added, “It’s not that I want 
to go back—” 

“I know,” Firestar reassured him. “Twolegs aren’t 
our enemies, even if they don’t understand the 
warrior’s way of life. Now and then I miss my old 
Twolegs.” 

“You do?” Sparrowpaw’s eyes widened. 


Firestar nodded. “They were good to me. But I was 
born for the life of a warrior.” 

Sparrowpaw straightened up; pride replaced the 
sadness in his eyes. “So was I.” 

“My Twolegs have a new cat now,” Firestar went 
on. “Her name’s Hattie. She seems nice—much better 
suited to living with housefolk than I was.” 

For a heartbeat Sparrowpaw looked alarmed at the 
thought of another cat taking his place. Then he gave 
his chest fur a couple of quick licks. “I hope my 
housefolk get another cat, too,” he mewed bravely. 
“Then they wouldn’t be sad anymore about losing me 
and Cherrypaw.” 

Firestar rested the tip of his tail on the young cat’s 
shoulder. “Come on. We have a cat to find.” 

He felt his bristling pelt relax a little as he and 
Sparrowpaw slipped down the first alley that led into 
the heart of the Twolegplace. Twolegs and dogs he 
had dealt with before, and here among the Twoleg 
nests they were less likely to encounter the clever, 
coldhearted rats. 

Sparrowpaw, however, looked much less at ease 
than he had when he and Firestar had last visited the 


Twolegplace. His pelt fluffed up at the distant barking 
of a dog, and when they emerged from the alley onto 
the edge of a small Thunderpath, he leaped into the air 
as a glittermg monster snarled past. “I guess I’ve 
forgotten what it’s like around here,” he mewed, giving 
his shoulder an embarrassed lick. 

After carefully checking that no more monsters 
were around, Firestar led the way down another alley, 
to be met at once by a powerful scent of cat. 

“Well look who’s here,” a voice drawled. 

Sparrowpaw jumped, his pelt bristling again. Firestar 
looked up to see the black kittypet, Oscar, stretched 
out on the top of the wall. His jaws gaped in a yawn, 
showing sharp teeth. 

“Tf it isn’t the mad rogue,’ he sneered, with a 
dismissive twitch of his whiskers at Firestar. “And little 
Boris! Actually, ’'ve been expecting you,” he added. 
“But I thought you’d come a bit sooner than this.” 

Firestar froze. Surely Oscar couldn’t be the 
medicine cat Skywatcher had told him of? 

The black tomcat leaped lightly down from the wall 
and confronted them. “Crawling back to your 
housefolk, are you, now the weather’s turning cold?” 


“No, I am not!” Sparrowpaw glared at the black 
tom. “I’m going to be a warrior. And don’t call me 
Boris. I’m Sparrowpaw now.” 

Oscar let out a snort of amusement. “Sparrowpaw! 
What sort of name is that?” 

“It’s my name.” Sparrowpaw slid his claws out. “Do 
you want to make something of it?” 

Hastily Firestar thrust himself between the two 
bristling toms. “We’re not here to fight,’ he meowed, 
though privately he would have liked to see the battle- 
trained SkyClan apprentice show Oscar just how much 
he had learned in the past moon. “We’re looking for a 
special cat,’ he went on to Oscar. “One who has 
weird dreams. Have you heard about a cat like that?” 

Please, Skywatcher, he added silently, dont let 
Oscar tell me that he dreams about you! 

Oscar’s green eyes widened, gleaming with 
contempt. “No,” he replied. “And I haven’t heard 
about any cats who fly, either.” 

“You think you know everything, you—” 
Sparrowpaw began hotly. 

“I think you are looking for me,’ another voice 
interrupted him from behind, clear and young. “My 


name is Echo. I dream of cats with stars in their fur.” 


CHAPTER 30 


A shiver ran through Firestar from ears to tail tip. A 
couple of heartbeats passed before he could force his 
paws to move and let him turn to face the newcomer. 
He saw a silver-gray tabby she-cat with deep green 
eyes, small and gracefully built, with tiny dark gray 
paws. To Firestar she looked almost fragile, and he 
wondered if she was suited for the tough life of a Clan. 

“Greetings,” he meowed. “Have you dreamed of... 
of a gray-and-white cat?” 

“Yes, many times. And other cats, too. A new one 
just came to join them—a big cat with frosty gray fur.” 
She blinked at Firestar with growing excitement. “Can 
you tell me who the starry cats are?” 

“Yes,” Firestar replied. “They are the spirits of your 
warrior ancestors.” 

“Spirits!” Oscar sneered. “I hope you’re not 
listening to this rubbish?” he hissed to Echo. 

To Firestar’s relief, Echo ignored him. “Do you 
know why they come to me?” she asked Firestar. 

“Have you heard of the Clan of cats who have 


settled in the gorge?” Echo shook her head. “The 
gray-and-white cat came to me and asked for my 
help,” Firestar explained. “Many seasons ago, he was 
leader of SkyClan, but his cats are long gone now. 
Skywatcher—the new gray cat you saw—challenged 
me to rebuild the Clan. But they can’t be a real Clan 
until they find a medicine cat,’ he went on, taking a 
deep breath. “And you—” 

“Last night the gray cat spoke to me in a dream,” 
Echo interrupted, her eyes shining. “He told me to 
come here today and look for two strange cats. Yes, I 
will join you.” 

“What?” Oscar broke in before Firestar could 
respond. “Go off with these two crazy furballs? You 
must be as mad as they are.” 

“Maybe I am,” Echo replied calmly. “But no other 
cat has ever been able to explain my dreams to me. I 
will come.” 

“What about your Twolegs?” Sparrowpaw asked. 

A hint of sadness appeared in Echo’s green eyes. 
“These last few moons I’ve felt so restless that I’ve 
been roaming farther and farther from my housefolk’s 
nest. I felt that if only I knew how to listen, the stars 


would give me an answer. Now that I’m leaving for 
good, my housefolk will just assume that ’ve found a 
new nest to stay in. They’ll miss me, but they won’t be 
afraid for me.” 

“Then let’s go,’ meowed Firestar. 

“Hang on.” Oscar shouldered past him to face 
Echo. “You’re not really going, are you? Just because 
of a few dreams?” 

“This is not for you to understand,” Echo murmured 
gently. She turned back to Firestar, who caught a hint 
of nervousness in her eyes. 

“You're taking a big step,” he pointed out, feeling 
that he had to give her a chance to change her mind. 

“I know. But I’m sure this is what I’m meant to do.” 

Firestar nodded. If she was willing to trust her 
dreams, then that was enough for him. “Let’s go,” he 
mewed. 

Oscar stood staring after them, dumbfounded, as 
they slipped back along the alley and out of the 
Twolegplace. 


“What’s it like, living in a Clan?” Echo asked as they 


made their way back to the gorge. 

“You have to be an apprentice first,’ Sparrowpaw 
told her. “You learn hunting and fighting and stuff like 
that. And—” 

“Hang on,” Firestar interrupted. “Echo might...well, 
she might play a different role, one that involves 
healing herbs—and more dreams of starry cats.” 

“How will I learn to do all that?” she asked, her 
eyes wide. 

They were sheltering under the gorse bush where 
Firestar and Sparrowpaw had paused on the way out. 
Sparrowpaw padded a tail-length away to check for 
any signs of marauding rats. 

“I don’t know,” Firestar admitted. “My mate, 
Sandstorm, can teach you some of the stuff about 
herbs. As for the rest—if SkyClan’s warrior ancestors 
really mean for you to join us, they’ll show you the 
way.” 

To his relief, his answer seemed to satisfy Echo. “I 
will wait for their guidance,” she mewed. 

When the three cats reached the gorge, Sharpclaw 
was keeping watch on the Skyrock. He sprang up to 
meet them at the top of the cliff. 


“Still no sign of rats,” he reported, and gave Echo a 
curious sniff. “Who’s this?” 

“This is Echo,” Firestar replied. “I...I think she is 
going to be your medicine cat.” 

Sharpclaw’s fur began to bristle, and his eyes 
narrowed. “A stranger? I thought you’d appoint one of 
us to be medicine cat.” 

Firestar took a deep breath. “It’s not up to me to 
appoint a medicine cat,” he explained. “They have to 
have a special connection with your warrior ancestors. 
I think Echo has that. You’re all great warriors,” he 
added, “but to defend your Clan fully, you need the 
support of a cat who can heal and share tongues with 
your ancestors.” 

Sharpclaw’s fur began to lie flat, but he still looked 
uneasy. “Where does she come from?” he asked. 
“Can we trust her to give us the right herbs and 
remedies?” 

“I lived with housefolk.” Echo’s clear gaze rested 
calmly on Sharpclaw, though her voice held a trace of 
uncertainty. “And I promise you can trust me. Once 
I’ve learned all about the herbs, PI do my best for 
every cat.” 


Sharpclaw gave her a brusque nod. “We’ll see how 
you get on,” he mewed. “Good luck, anyway.” 

Firestar rested his tail tip on Echo’s shoulder. “Come 
on. Let’s introduce you to some more of the cats. 
Sparrowpaw, you go and tell the others that they have 
a new Clanmate.” 

Sparrowpaw took off at once, leaping down the 
rocks. Padding more slowly down the stony trail, 
Firestar glanced into the warriors’ den, but at this time 
of day it was empty. When they reached the nursery, 
he poked his head around the boulder at the entrance, 
to find Clovertail keeping watch over the kits. Her own 
three were play-fighting near the entrance, while Mint 
and Sage were curled up asleep among the moss. 

“Come in, Firestar.” Clovertail rose to her paws. 
“What can I do for you?” 

“I want to introduce you to a new member of 
SkyClan.” Firestar slid past the boulder and beckoned 
Echo with his tail. “This is Echo. Echo, this is 
Clovertail.” 

‘Tm Rockkit!” The black kit bounced up to Echo 
and sniffed her; his two littermates jomed him and 
stood gazing up curiously at the newcomer. 


Clovertail dipped her head, but Firestar noticed that 
she looked a little wary. 

“I think Echo might become SkyClan’s medicine 
cat,” he mewed. 

“Are these yours?” Echo asked, twitching her ears 
at the three kits who surrounded her. “What lovely, 
strong kits! You must be very proud of them.” 

“T am,” Clovertail purred; Firestar realized that Echo 
had said exactly the right thing. “But they can be 
mischievous at times.” 

Echo gave a soft mrrow of amusement. Padding 
over to the mossy nest where Mint and Sage were 
asleep, she mewed, “These can’t be yours too?” 

“No, they’re mine.” Light from the entrance was 
blocked off as Petal came in, mumbling around a vole 
in her jaws. Setting it down in front of Clovertail, she 
added more clearly, “Sparrowpaw tells me that we 
might have a new medicine cat.” She nodded to Echo. 
“You’re very welcome.” 

“Thank you.” Echo’s eyes grew warm as she gazed 
down at the kits. “They’re beautiful—and so tiny!” 

“You should have seen them when we came here,” 
Petal replied. “They’re much stronger now. Firestar 


rescued us from my Twoleg. I think my kits would 
have died if it hadn’t been for Clovertail. She fed them 
and looked after them when I was too ill.” 

“That’s wonderful!” Echo exclaimed. 

Clovertail purred, and Firestar could tell that she 
might decide to be pleased to have Echo join the Clan. 
When she had spent a little time talking to the two she- 
cats, Firestar led her out of the nursery again and 
farther down the cliff. “I’ll show you the old medicine 
cat den,” he told her. 

Sandstorm was still taking care of Patchfoot in the 
outer cave, though by now the black-and-white warrior 
was growing stronger, the infection in his wound 
almost gone. When Firestar and Echo entered, he was 
crouched over a piece of fresh-kill, while Sandstorm 
sat nearby. 

She rose to her paws and padded up to Echo to 
touch noses with her. “Welcome to SkyClan,” she 
meowed. 

Echo glanced at Patchfoot, her eyes widening at the 
ugly wound on his shoulder. “How were you hurt?” 
she asked. 

Patchfoot waved his tail in greeting and gulped 


down the last mouthful of blackbird. “Rat bite,” he 
replied when he could speak. “Sandstorm fixed me up, 
though.” 

Sandstorm shook her head. “I don’t know as much 
as a real medicine cat—just a few useful remedies.” 

Echo padded up to Patchfoot, politely asked, “May 
I?” and then gave his wound a good sniff. “What’s that 
I can smell?” 

“Burdock root,” Sandstorm replied. “That’s best for 
rat bites, especially if they get infected. For ordinary 
wounds we usually use marigold. And cobwebs first of 
all, to stop the bleeding.” 

Echo blinked admiringly. “You know so much!” 

“I had great teachers.” Sandstorm caught Firestar’s 
eye as she spoke, and he knew she meant Spottedleaf 
as well as Cinderpelt. His heart warmed at the glow in 
her eyes, and he knew that at last she understood his 
connection to Spottedleaf, without feeling that the 
tortoiseshell cat was a threat. 


One by one the cats leaped the cleft in the rock and 
landed on the flat surface of the Skyrock. A full moon 


floated in a sky without any clouds to hide the glitter of 
Silverpelt. Back in the forest, Firestar thought with a 
tug of homesickness, the Clans would be gathering at 
Fourtrees. Here there was only one Clan, but SkyClan 
would still gather to honor their warrior ancestors. 

Rainfur and Petal had stayed behind to look after 
the kits, but almost all the Clan cats had assembled 
when Firestar spotted a group of three making their 
way up the trail: Sandstorm and Echo—and Patchfoot! 
Would the black-and-white warrior manage the leap? 

He stepped forward, weaving his way between 
Sharpclaw and Rainfur, but before he could call out 
Sandstorm had leaped lightly across the gap and turned 
toward Patchfoot. “Okay,” she meowed. “I’m ready.” 

Patchfoot picked up his pace, though Firestar could 
see he was limping, and winced with pain when he put 
his injured leg to the ground. He launched himself into 
the air and landed with all four paws on the rock, but 
so close to the edge that he tottered, about to fall 
backward. Sandstorm sank her teeth into the loose fur 
on his uninjured shoulder and pulled him to safety. Last 
of all Echo leaped the gap and gave Patchfoot’s 
shoulder wound a careful sniff. 


“Are you mouse-brained?” Firestar hissed, coming 
up to them. “What if you'd fallen?” 

‘T’m a member of this Clan.” Patchfoot faced him 
determinedly. “I wanted to be at our first Gathering.” 

Gazing at the smoldering courage in his eyes, 
Firestar couldn’t go on being angry. “Okay,” he 
mewed, waving his tail. “You’re here now. But for 
StarClan’s sake, be careful going back. You’re too 
good a warrior to lose.” 

He jumped onto one of the tumbled boulders where 
the Skyrock met the cliff. When the rest of the Clan 
turned to face him, the pale glow of their eyes set 
every hair on his pelt pricking. Sharpclaw was scraping 
at the rock as if he couldn’t wait to sink his claws into 
a rat’s pelt. Cherrypaw crouched beside him, as ready 
for battle as her mentor. Clovertail and Shortwhisker 
sat side by side, their ears pricked. Leafdapple 
beckoned Sparrowpaw over to her with a sweep of 
her tail, and the two cats settled down to listen at the 
foot of Firestar’s rock. 

Firestar knew he was seeing how loyal they were to 
their Clan, how determined to fight for their right to live 
in the gorge. In that moment he didn’t believe that 


anything, not even the rats, would overcome them. 

“Cats of SkyClan,” he began, “when several Clans 
gather together, they exchange news of what has 
happened in the previous moon. We can’t do that, but 
we can share our news with one another. Does any 
cat have something to report?” 

Leafdapple raised her tail. “I’d like to say how well 
Sparrowpaw’s hunting skills are coming along. He 
brought back more prey than any cat yesterday.” 

“Excellent!” Firestar mewed, while Sparrowpaw 
licked his chest fur to cover his embarrassment. 

“My apprentice is doing well, too.” Sharpclaw 
obviously didn’t intend to be outdone. “I promise you, 
she would have clawed my ear off this morning if 
Sandstorm hadn’t stopped her.” 

“You just wait!” Cherrypaw muttered, only half 
joking. “One day when Sandstorm isn’t around...” 

Sharpclaw gave her an affectionate swipe across 
the haunches with his tail. 

“Well done,” Firestar told her. “But please leave 
your mentor in one piece. We need him.” 

Sandstorm stepped forward. “I’d like to say 
something about Petal, even though I know she isn’t a 


member of SkyClan. She volunteered to stay with the 
kits tonight, so that Clovertail could come here. And 
she’s been so helpful collecting herbs in the forest. I 
don’t know what Echo and I would have done without 
her.” 

“TI mention it to her,” Firestar promised. 

“There’s something else I want to say,’ Sharpclaw 
meowed. “We haven’t seen so much as the hair of a 
rat since their leader spoke to us by the Twoleg barn. 
What are we going to do about them?” 

“You know what we’re doing,” Firestar replied. 
“The patrols, the battle training—” 

Sharpclaw lashed his tail. “But none of that is 
getting rid of the rats. Why don’t we go out there and 
sort them out once and for all?” 

“It’s not the right time yet.” 

“At this rate it will never be the right time.” 
Sharpclaw bared his teeth. “How long do you expect 
us to live with the threat hanging over us?” 

“Not much longer, I hope,” Firestar replied. “I hate 
waiting as much as you do. If you’re willing, I think we 
should attack as soon as Patchfoot is fit.” 

“It won’t be long,” Patchfoot put in. “I could fight 





now if I had to.” 

“Yow ll fight when Sandstorm says you can,” 
Firestar told him. “Sharpclaw, does that answer your 
question?” 

Sharpclaw hesitated before giving him a curt nod. 
Firestar thought he still didn’t look happy about the 
decision, but as important as it was to know when to 
attack, it was just as important to know when to hold 
back. 

When no other cat spoke, Firestar beckoned to 
Echo. “Cats of SkyClan,” he called, “tonight, under this 
moon, we welcome a new Clanmate and make her a 
member of the Clan before the spirits of our ancestors. 
I, Firestar, leader of ThunderClan and mentor to 
SkyClan, call upon their warrior ancestors to look 
down upon this cat,’ he went on. “She has walked 
with you in dreams, and I commend her to you as a 
member of SkyClan.” Leaping down from the boulder 
to stand in front of Echo, he went on. “Echo, do you 
promise to uphold the warrior code and to protect and 
serve this Clan, even at the cost of your life?” 

Echo raised her head. “T do.” 

“Then before the spirits of your ancestors I give you 


your name. From this moment you will be known as 
Echosong. StarClan honors your wisdom and faith, and 
we receive you into SkyClan.” 

He rested his muzzle on Echosong’s head, and she 
licked his shoulder in return. 

“Echosong...Echosong...” The name swept across 
the Skyrock like a breeze, while the warriors of 
StarClan blazed down. 

Thank you, Skywatcher, Firestar thought. 


A few sunrises after the Gathering, Firestar padded 
down the trail to the river to find Sandstorm sorting out 
the day’s duties. The sun was shining, but there was a 
crisp tang in the air that promised frost. Leaf-fall was 
on its way, bringing darker days and less cover for 
prey to hide in. 

“But I’m fed up with rat patrol!” Cherrypaw was 
protesting. “Why can’t I go hunting instead?” 

“Because Sandstorm put you on rat patrol.” 
Sharpclaw gave her ear a sharp flick with his tail. 
“Don’t argue.” 

Cherrypaw gave him a look of smoldering anger. 


“The stupid rats aren’t going to come anyway,” she 
muttered, just loud enough to be heard. 

Firestar paused, narrowing his eyes. If the Clan was 
starting to think like this, they would quickly lose their 
battle edge. The sooner they could attack, the better. 

“Leafdapple, it’s your turn to go on watch,” 
Sandstorm continued. “Sparrowpaw is up there now, 
so you can send him down for battle training.” 

The tabby she-cat waved her tail in 
acknowledgment and set off up the trail toward the 
Skyrock. Sharpclaw followed her on the rat patrol with 
Cherrypaw and Shortwhisker. 

When they had gone, Firestar padded up to 
Sandstorm. “How’s Patchfoot?” 

“A lot better.” Sandstorm twitched her ears to 
where the black-and-white warrior was standing a little 
way downstream with Rainfur and Clovertail. “He’s 
going on hunting patrol this morning, just to see how his 
shoulder holds up.” 

“Good. Pl have a word with him when he gets 
back.” 

As he was speaking, Echosong appeared from her 
den, bounded lightly down the rocks, and went up to 


Patchfoot. She gave his shoulder a careful sniff, then 
stood back as the hunting patrol waved their tails in 
farewell and set off downriver. Patchfoot seemed to 
be walking as well as any cat. 

“Echosong has done a marvelous job so far,” 
Sandstorm murmured. “She just seems to know what’s 
right. And she learns so quickly! Soon there won’t be 
anything more I can teach her.” 

But her words gave Firestar another reason to 
worry. Without another medicine cat, how could 
Echosong learn everything she needed to serve her 
Clan properly? Sandstorm could teach her some things 
about herbs and treatments, but a true medicine cat’s 
training took many moons, and included mysteries that 
no other Clan cat knew about. 

When the hunting patrol had gone, Echosong padded 
upstream and joined Firestar and Sandstorm at the 
base of the Rockpile. “I’m ready,’ she mewed to 
Sandstorm. 

Firestar flicked his ears inquiringly. 

“T’m going to give Echosong some battle training,” 
Sandstorm explained. 

Echosong nodded. “Sandstorm says medicine cats 


don’t usually fight, but they need to be able to defend 
themselves and their Clanmates.” 

“You might have to, soon,” Firestar meowed. 

They set off toward the training area, joined by 
Sparrowpaw, who came bounding down the trail from 
the Skyrock. At the top of the Rockpile, Firestar heard 
an excited squeal, and spotted Petal shepherding all 
five kits from the nursery. He waited for them to catch 
up, while Sandstorm and the others went on. 

“We want to watch the training.” Bouncekit 
scrambled up beside Firestar. “Petal says we can.” 

“I hope that’s okay,” Petal added. “It'll give me the 
chance to do some training myself. You know, in case 
the rats attack.” She lowered her voice and shot a 
nervous glance at Mint and Sage, stumbling after the 
older kits. 

“Yes, that’s fine,” Firestar replied. Calling after the 
kits, he added, “Keep away from the fighting. There’ ll 
be claws unsheathed, and I don’t want any of you 
hurt.” 

“When can we learn to fight?” Tinykit asked as they 
went on up the gorge. 

“Soon,” Petal mewed. “When you’re apprentices.” 


“What about us?” Mint asked. “Can we be 
apprentices too?” 

“No,” his mother told him. “We don’t belong to 
SkyClan.” 

“But that’s not fair!” Sage wailed. “Why don’t 
we?” 

Petal gave her a gentle tap with her tail. “You’re too 
little to understand.” 

“Is that why they don’t have ‘kit’ in their names, like 
us?” Rockkit asked. 

Firestar nodded. “If Rainfur and Petal decide to join 
the Clan, then Mint and Sage will have new names.” 

Mint’s ears pricked up. “You’ve got to stay,’ he 
mewed to his mother. “Please!” 

Petal shook her head. “Tt’s not as easy as that.” 

They arrived at the training area, where Sandstorm 
and Sparrowpaw were already sparring. Firestar was 
impressed by the tabby tom’s speed, flashing past 
Sandstorm to strike a blow on her shoulder before she 
had time to dodge. 

“Now you, Echosong,’ Sandstorm meowed. 
“You’ve watched Sparrowpaw do that move enough 
times—see if you can copy him.” 


The young cat stepped forward, but before she 
could face Sandstorm they were interrupted by a loud 
wail of fright from Sage. Firestar’s head whipped 
around. The tiny kit had climbed up onto a rock and 
was teetering at the very top. Before any cat could 
reach her she lost her balance and rolled to the bottom 
in a flurry of legs and tail. 

Petal bounded over to her. She sat up, holding out 
one paw. “It hurts,” she whimpered. 

Instantly Echosong was beside her, sniffing at the 
injured paw. “You’ve snagged a claw,” she murmured, 
giving it a few gentle licks. “I know how painful that 
can be, but it’ll be okay soon.” 

As she went on licking, Sage’s whimpering died 
away. “You’re making it feel better,’ she mewed. 

“You're very brave,’ Echosong told the tiny kit. 
“Just like a warrior. Try standing on your paw now.” 

Sage got up and gingerly put her injured paw to the 
ground. “It feels fine. Thanks,’ she added as she 
scampered off to join her littermate and the other kits. 
“T’m a warrior,” she boasted. “Echosong said so.” 

Echosong looked after the kit, her eyes glimmering 
with amusement. 


“Well done,” Firestar murmured in her ear. 

The young cat turned to him. “A snagged claw is 
easy.” But Firestar could see that her eyes were 
glowing with new confidence. 


As Patchfoot’s shoulder improved even more, 
Sandstorm agreed he could return to limited battle 
training. 

“He’s trying hard, but he’s still slow,” she reported 
to Firestar. “And he gets tired easily.” 

“He’s not ready to face the rats?” Firestar asked. 

“Not yet,” Sandstorm replied. 

Firestar began to wonder whether they should 
attack without Patchfoot. He could stay behind with 
Echosong and one of the nursing queens to defend the 
camp. Tension among the other cats was building. 
Sharpclaw and Rainfur, normally the best of friends, 
almost came to blows over a piece of fresh-kill, while 
Shortwhisker looked perpetually on edge, glancing over 
his shoulder as if he expected to see a rat sneaking up 
on him. Even the kits were affected, boldly playing at 
rat attacks during the day, but scurrying back to the 


nursery at any unexpected noise. 

But where are they? Firestar wondered. Although 
he tried to act normally around the cats, fear stalked 
him day and night. They threatened to kill us. Why 
haven t they come? 

He knew the answer already, the same answer he 
had given Sparrowpaw on the day they traveled to the 
Twolegplace and found Echosong. The rats hoped to 
weaken the Clan by keeping them in suspense. They 
would attack when they were ready. 


Firestar returned from the last hunting patrol of the 
day to find Echosong waiting for him beside the river 
where it flowed out from the rocks. The gorge lay in 
shadow, the last scarlet rays of sunset fading from the 
sky. 

Depositing his fresh-kill on the pile, Firestar padded 
over to her. 

“Firestar, I must talk to you,” she mewed. Her eyes 
were huge and troubled. She looked away to gaze at 
the smooth curve of water where it left the cave. 
“When we met in the Twolegplace,” she began, “I told 


you that I dreamed of starry cats.” 

“Yes, that’s how I knew SkyClan’s warrior 
ancestors had sent you to be SkyClan’s medicine cat,” 
Firestar reminded her. 

Echosong heaved a deep sigh. “But what if you 
were wrong?” Before Firestar had a chance to reply, 
she went on, her words forced out as if it hurt to say 
them aloud. “I haven’t dreamed of those cats since I 
came here. Not once.” 

Firestar swallowed hard. “You dreamed of them 
before,’ he assured her, trying not to let his alarm 
show in his voice. “You will dream of them again. 
They know where to find you.” 

“Then why have my dreams stopped?” 

Firestar shook his head. “I don’t know. Maybe it 
would help if you went up to the Skyrock to sleep,” he 
suggested. “That’s always been the place where 
SkyClan were closest to their warrior ancestors.” 

Echosong’s eyes brightened, and her claws flexed in 
the ground. ‘TI sleep there tonight!” she exclaimed. 

Firestar pressed his muzzle encouragingly against 
her shoulder. “PI come with you.” 

Night had fallen when the two cats leaped the rift to 


land on the Skyrock. Silverpelt glittered frostily above, 
and the moon had waned to the thinnest claw scratch. 
Firestar fluffed his fur out against the probing wind. 
‘“Where’s the cat on watch?” 

The whole flat expanse of the rock was empty, 
gleaming faintly in the starlight. Firestar’s paws tingled, 
and he drew in a long breath, tasting the air. 

“Can you scent rats?” Echosong asked, her eyes 
wary. 

“No. All I can scent is cat.” Firestar padded across 
to the tumbled boulders near the cliff face, and peered 
into the deepest shadows. When his eyes adjusted to 
the dark, he made out a curled-up tabby shape. 
Shortwhisker. 

Firestar felt a growl rising in his throat. He prodded 
Shortwhisker with one paw. “Wake up.” 

Shortwhisker stirred, his ears twitching. “Uh... 
wha...?” 

Firestar prodded him again, harder. This time 
Shortwhisker sprang to his paws, his fur bristling. “Are 
the rats here?” 

“No,” Firestar replied. “But no thanks to you. What 
do you think you’re doing, sleeping when you should be 


on watch?” 

Shortwhisker gazed around wildly; it was obvious he 
had no idea where he was or what he was doing there. 
Then shocked realization flooded into his eyes, and he 
hung his head. 

“T’m sorry, Firestar.” 

““Sorry’ catches no prey,” Firestar snapped. “What 
if the rats had attacked? We could all have been 
killed.” 

“I know. I’m really sorry.” Shortwhisker scrabbled 
on the rock with his forepaws. “I’m just so tired.” 

“We’re all tired,” Firestar replied, though his anger 
was ebbing. Was he expecting too much of the 
SkyClan warriors, to prepare for the rat attack with 
every scrap of strength they had? “All right,” he went 
on with a sigh. “I have to be up here now, so you can 
go and catch up on your sleep in the warriors’ den. 
Who has the next watch?” 

“Rainfur.” 

“Okay, I'll wake him when it’s time.” 

Shortwhisker dipped his head and began pacing 
across the rock toward the cleft. Then he stopped and 
glanced back, his eyes filled with shame. “T really am 


sorry,” he repeated. “It won’t happen again.” 

Firestar just nodded, and watched him walk off in 
silence, his head down and his tail dragging on the 
rock. He leaped the cleft and disappeared down the 
trail. 

When he had gone, Echosong padded up to join 
Firestar; she looked thoughtful. “Are there herbs for 
strength?” she asked. “Or to help cats keep awake?” 

“Strength...juniper berries, I think,” Firestar replied. 
“Sandstorm might know. But I never heard of herbs to 
keep cats awake.” 

“A real medicine cat would know.” There was a 
trace of bitterness in Echosong’s voice. 

Firestar couldn’t help remembering the last time she 
had stood on the Skyrock in the light of the full moon, 
brimming with confidence as she was given her Clan 
name. Her confidence had waned with the moon, until 
it was no more than the tiny curved claw that shone 
above their heads. 

“Try to sleep,” he suggested. “See if StarClan will 
speak to you here.” 

Obediently the silver-gray tabby curled up in the 
shelter of one of the boulders. Soon her light, regular 


breathing told Firestar she was asleep. He sat beside 
her, watching the stars, while his ears were pricked 
and he kept tasting the ai for the first signs of 
approaching rats. 

The moon crept across the sky. There were no 
sounds except for the distant ripple of the river and the 
soft hissing of the wind. At last Echosong stirred, 
blinking and looking up at Firestar. He didn’t need to 
ask what her dreams had been; the desolation in her 
eyes told him enough. 

“I think the starry cats have left me forever,” she 
mewed. 

Firestar reached down to give the top of her head a 
comforting lick. “Did you dream at all?” 

“Yes, I thought I was standing on a stretch of 
moorland. There was mist all around me. I couldn’t 
see anything, but I could sense cats nearby, and I knew 
they were terribly frightened. And I knew one cat was 
calling out to me, but I couldn’t hear what he wanted 
to say. He was always out of reach.” 

Firestar felt his neck fur bristle. “I think you 
dreamed of the first SkyClan fleeing the forest,’ he 
explained. “I’ve had dreams like that too. The cat who 


was trying to call to you might have been their leader.” 

Echosong brightened momentarily, but then the hope 
faded from her eyes. “It wasn’t a proper medicine cat 
dream, then.” 

“All dreams can be medicine cat dreams,” Firestar 
told her. 

‘Tm not sure anymore that m meant to be a 
medicine cat.” Echosong shook her head, sighing. 
“Maybe it’s because I was born a kittypet.” 

“I was born a kittypet too.” Echosong looked at him 
in astonishment, and he went on. “But StarClan still 
chose me to save my Clan and become its leader. 
Besides, all cats were wild once, even the ancestors of 
kittypets.” 

“Truly?” 

“Once there were three Clans of giant cats.” 
Firestar remembered the legends that he had learned 
when he first became an apprentice in ThunderClan. 
“LionClan, TigerClan, and LeopardClan. They roamed 
the forest freely and they were never owned by 
Twolegs. And a little of their wildness lives on in the 
heart of every cat.” 

“Even in kittypets?” 


“In every cat,’ Firestar repeated. “Echosong, don’t 
give up. You dreamed of SkyClan’s warrior ancestors 
before, and you’ll dream of them again. Dreams can’t 
be summoned. They’re sent, and you’ll just have to be 
patient. SkyClan’s ancestors will come to you when 
they have something to say.” 

Echosong murmured agreement, but Firestar wasn’t 
sure he had convinced her. Giving her a last reassuring 
lick, he rose to his paws and went to wake Rainfur for 
the next watch. 


On the next night, for all his weariness, Firestar 
found it hard to sleep. After shifting around in his nest 
for what felt like several moons, he padded out of the 
warriors’ cave to sit on the ledge outside and watch 
pale dawn light growing over the gorge. 

After a little while he smelled Sandstorm’s sweet 
scent and felt her tongue rasping warmly over his ear. 
“I couldn’t sleep either,’ she murmured. 

Firestar turned his head to gaze into her eyes. “If 
we’re going to attack the rats it has to be soon,” he 
mewed. “But is that the right thing to do? Was I right 


to tell SkyClan that this is their home and they should 
fight for it?” 

Sandstorm’s whiskers twitched in surprise. “What 
else are they going to do? Scatter and live as rogues 
and kittypets again?” 

“There is another alternative.” Firestar took a deep 
breath. “We could take them back to the forest.” 

“What, after everything we’ve done to help them 
make a home here?” 

“Why not? The ancestors of the forest Clans drove 
them out, and we know how wrong that was. Maybe 
now we’re supposed to bring them back.” 

Sandstorm turned her head to smooth a piece of fur 
sticking up on her shoulder. “I suppose it could work,” 
she meowed. “They would have to split up and join the 
other four Clans, though. Now that the Twolegplace 
has been built, there isn’t room in the forest for a fifth 
Clan—that’s what caused all the trouble in the first 
place.” 

“They won’t want to split up now,” Firestar warned. 
“Somehow we would have to find a way of dividing 
the territory along new boundary lines.” 

Sandstorm’s tail lashed. “There isnt a way. You 


saw that for yourself when Scourge tried to move in 
with BloodClan. SkyClan’s territory was lost when the 
Twolegs built their Twolegplace. The forest won’t 
support an extra Clan now.” 

Firestar knew she was right, but guilt filled him up 
like rain filling an upturned leaf. Was he agreeing just 
because in his heart he didn’t want to give up any of 
his Clan’s territory? Did that make him as bad as the 
original Clans who had driven SkyClan into exile? 

Sandstorm pressed her muzzle against his. “There’s 
no point working yourself up,’ she mewed. “SkyClan 
don’t want to go back to the forest. This is where they 
feel at home. You know,” she added, with a flick of her 
tail, ““you’re only saying this because you’re afraid of 
leading them to their deaths. You need to trust their 
warrior ancestor who told you to come here and 
rebuild the Clan. He won’t let the rats wipe SkyClan 
out.” 

“I suppose—” Firestar stopped talking, distracted by 
movement in the shadowy gorge below. Gazing down, 
he spotted Echosong climbing to the top of the 
Rockpile and making her way across to the other side 
of the river. 


“Where is she going?” he wondered out loud. 

He set off after her, but by the time he reached the 
bottom of the gorge, Echosong had disappeared. He 
tracked her by her scent across the Rockpile as far as 
the path that led beneath the rocks to the Whispering 
Cave. Quietly he slipped in after her, along the narrow 
ledge with the water gliding along just below his paws. 
Dawn light gleamed on the surface, fading behind him 
as he went further underground. 

He found Echosong sitting by the water’s edge in 
the Whispering Cave, her paws tucked under her and 
her gaze fixed on the river as it silently slid by, green- 
black in the eerie half-light. At the sound of his 
approach she looked up. The pale light of the moss 
glimmered on her pelt and was reflected in her 
beautiful eyes. 

“Echosong...,” Firestar began. 

“Tinykit just told me about hearing the voices,” she 
explained. Her eyes sparkled. “And it’s true, Firestar! I 
can hear them, too quiet to make out what they’re 
speaking, but they are all around me, welcoming me. 
Our warrior ancestors are here, just out of reach. 
When they are ready, they will come to me.” 


CHAPTER 31 


“Rats! Rats!” 

Firestar struggled awake as the terrified yowl split 
the silence of the night. Darkness filled the warriors’ 
den, and for a few heartbeats he couldn’t work out 
where the entrance was. Guided by the movement of 
air against his whiskers, he headed outside, only to 
blunder over another warrior. 

“Fox dung!” the other cat spat; Firestar identified 
Sharpclaw’s scent. “Get out of the way.” 

He scrambled past Firestar and out of the cave. 
Firestar followed; in the entrance he brushed against 
another cat’s pelt, and Sandstorm’s scent wreathed 
around him. The yowling was drawing closer, and now 
Firestar could recognize Cherrypaw’s voice. 

It was the night after he had discovered Echosong in 
the Whispering Cave. Rain had fallen all night, and 
clouds still covered the sky, blotting out the stars and 
the thin sliver of moon. Firestar’s paws slipped on the 
wet rock, and he saw himself plummeting into the 
gorge below. For a heartbeat his paws froze to the 


ledge; then as his eyes grew accustomed to the 
darkness he could just make out the trail leading 
upward, and a cat pelting toward him. 

“It’s the rats!” Cherrypaw gasped. “So many rats! 
They came over the cliff top....” 

Firestar looked up. Where the trail met the edge of 
the gorge, a dark mass was flowing down toward him 
like water. He couldn’t make out individual creatures, 
but a strong reek rolled ahead of them, and he knew 
Cherrypaw was right. The rats were attacking at last. 

His belly clenched, but his voice was surprisingly 
steady when he spoke. “Sandstorm, go and make sure 
that the queens in the nursery know what’s happening. 
Then warn Echosong and Patchfoot. Stay down there 
and help them.” 

“I’m on my way.” He felt Sandstorm’s tail tip brush 
his ear; then she was gone. 

“Cherrypaw.” Firestar rested his tail on the panting 
tortoiseshell’s shoulder. “Sparrowpaw will be in your 
cave. Go and warn him. Then fight where you can do 
most good.” 

“Right.” The apprentice squeezed past him and 
vanished down the trail. 


“Sharpclaw, are you still there?” 

A snarl came out of the darkness just ahead. “I’m 
over here. What are we waiting for?” 

By now the other warriors were emerging from the 
cave. Firestar picked up Rainfur’s scent and 
Leafdapple’s, and a strong reek of fear from 
Shortwhisker. 

“Let’s go,” he meowed. “Stay in the open if you 
can. Don’t let them trap you in any caves—your 
advantage lies in being able to run and jump away from 
them.” 

He raced up the trail toward the oncoming mass of 
rats. Sharpclaw bounded beside him, and the others 
were hard on his paws. Firestar just had time to think, 
This is what they were waiting for—a night with no 
moon! Then the rats were on him. 

Tiny claws gripped his pelt and sank into his 
shoulders as the sleek brown bodies surged around 
him. Their hot stink filled his throat, choking his breath. 
He felt teeth stab into the side of his neck and swatted 
at the rat with one forepaw. It vanished with a thin 
shriek. Two more instantly took its place, and Firestar 
struggled to stay on his paws. If he fell, more rats 


would be on him and he would have no chance. 

Firestar heard a drawn-out caterwaul from the 
bottom of the gorge, but he couldn’t tell which cat it 
was. Please, not the nursery! He could make out the 
glittering eyes of his enemies now, and their sharp 
white teeth. Peering among them, he looked for the rat 
leader, but he couldn’t spot him. Either he was hidden 
by the darkness, or he had stayed behind. 

Firestar caught a glimpse of Sharpclaw tossing rats 
off the boulders to fall into the gorge with shrill wails of 
fear. Nearby Leafdapple was rolling on the ground 
with two rats clinging to her pelt. Firestar tried to push 
his way through the bodies to help her, but just then she 
bit down hard on the throat of one, and it went limp. 
The other rat let out a screech of fear and leaped 
away. 

Firestar staggered as another rat jumped onto his 
back; he scraped himself along a boulder in an effort to 
throw it off, but it still clung there. Its teeth sank into 
his shoulder and he felt blood begin to flow. He 
twisted, vainly trying to grab it with teeth or claws. 
One hind paw slipped; there was nothing underneath it, 
and Firestar tottered on the edge of the trail, 


unbalanced by the weight of the rat on his shoulders. 

Then the rat let out a scream, abruptly cut off. Its 
teeth lost their grip and its weight vanished. Cat claws 
fastened in Firestar’s shoulder fur and hauled him 
away from the terrifying drop. 

“You okay?” Rainfur’s voice meowed in his ear. 

“Fine, thanks,” Firestar panted. 

And still the rats came, more and more of them, 
pouring over the cliff and down the rocks. No matter 
how many the SkyClan warriors killed, there were still 
more. Firestar realized that they were being pushed 
back, past the opening of the warriors’ cave, down 
toward the nursery. 

Then another outbreak of screeching and 
caterwauling broke out far below. Firestar stiffened 
with his teeth in a rat’s throat, and stood peering down 
for a couple of heartbeats. He couldn’t see anything, 
but terror flowed through his limbs. There must be rats 
down by the river! A second group must have come 
along the gorge to attack the SkyClan camp from 
below. 

Tossing his dead enemy aside, Firestar struggled 
through the writhng swarm of rats. Fear for the 


apprentices, for Echosong, for the kits, almost 
overwhelmed him. His claws slashed out and the rats 
in his path whimpered and fled. 

Suddenly the fighting stopped. The rats turned as 
one, scrambling up the rocks toward the cliff top. 
Sharpclaw sprang after them with a screech of 
triumph. 

“No!” Firestar yowled. “Wait!” 

Sharpclaw turned and looked down at him in furious 
disbelief. “They’re running away! We should go after 
them.” 

“No,” Firestar repeated. “It could be a trap.” 

“But we could finish them off once and for all!” 

Firestar scrambled up to block Sharpclaw, while the 
skittermg of rats’ paws on the rocks faded away. 
“They could be waiting on the cliff top to ambush us,” 
he insisted. “Think, Sharpclaw! Why should they go 
on fighting to the death? All they need to do is frighten 
us off. Maybe they think they’ve already done that.” 

“Never!” Sharpclaw let out a snarl, but he stayed 
where he was, glaring into the darkness where the last 
of the rats had vanished. The noise of fighting in the 
gorge had died away, too. 


Firestar glanced around. As well as Sharpclaw, he 
could make out the pale blur of Leafdapple’s pelt, and 
the darker bulk of Rainfur. There was no sign of 
Shortwhisker, and Firestar’s belly clenched at the 
thought of the tabby tom’s body broken in the gorge, or 
lying somewhere among the rocks, bleeding out his life. 

“Lets go down,” he meowed. “We’ll check the 
nursery first, then Echosong’s cave.” 

The other cats bunched together behind him as he 
limped down the trail. When he rounded a curve in the 
rock a furious hiss came out of the darkness. Clovertail 
was crouched in the narrow entrance between the 
boulder and the cliff face. Firestar scarcely recognized 
the cat who had joined the Clan for protection and 
easy shelter. Her eyes were narrowed with rage and 
her teeth bared in a snarl. 

A heartbeat later she relaxed. “Oh, it’s you, Firestar. 
I thought you were more of those rats.” 

“The kits?” Firestar asked anxiously. 

“The kits are fine.” It was Petal who replied, 
appearing out of the darkness inside the nursery. 
Rainfur pushed forward to meet her and the two cats 
touched noses. “Clovertail blocked the entrance and 


wouldn’t let any of them in,” Petal added. 

Firestar rested his tail on Clovertail’s shoulder. “Well 
done.” 

The she-cat rose painfully to her paws, revealing the 
marks of rat bites on her chest and shoulders. 

“You should go see Echosong,” Petalnose told her. 
“T can look after the kits.” 

Clovertail muttered something in agreement; she 
was obviously exhausted, and staggered as she joined 
Firestar and the others on their way down the trail. 
Firestar let her lean on his shoulder until they reached 
the medicine cat’s den. 

To his relief, Sandstorm was with Echosong in the 
outer cave; Echosong was already pulling out her store 
of herbs. “We’ll need a lot of burdock root,’ she 
mewed. “It’s a good thing Petal and I found a good 
supply the other day.” 

“And cobwebs,” Sandstorm added. Her gaze 
traveled over the cats who had just arrived, and locked 
for a heartbeat with Firestar’s eyes before she asked, 
“Which of you is hurt worst?” 

Firestar pushed Clovertail forward. ‘“Where’s 
Patchfoot?” 


“He went out to fight,’ Sandstorm replied. “We 
realized there were rats coming up the river only when 
a couple of them tried to get in here. Patchfoot and I 
attacked them, but there were swarms of them 
outside. We got separated in the darkness and I 
haven’t seen him since.” 

Firestar tried not to let the alarm show in his eyes. 
Patchfoot would have been in more danger than the 
other warriors because he didn’t have his full strength 
yet. And what about the two apprentices? 

Bracing himself against his bone-numbing 
weariness, he headed out of the cave to look for them. 
But when he reached the entrance, he spotted 
movement among the rocks, and a moment later all 
three cats appeared, Patchfoot and Sparrowpaw 
supporting Cherrypaw between them. Blood was 
flowing from a wound in her neck. 

“What happened?” Firestar asked. 

“The rats trapped us in our den,’ Sparrowpaw 
explained. “We didn’t have room to use our fighting 
moves properly. I think we’d have been in real trouble 
if Patchfoot hadn’t come to help.” 

“We killed lots of them, though,” Cherrypaw rasped, 


raising her head. 

Her Clanmates helped her into Echosong’s cave, 
where she flopped to the ground and closed her eyes. 
Sandstorm hurried over and started to lick the wound 
clean. After a moment, glancing up at Firestar, she 
meowed, “I don’t think it’s too bad. She’ ll live.” 

“Course PI live,’ Cherrypaw muttered without 
opening her eyes. “I’m going to kill more rats.” 

“That leaves only Shortwhisker unaccounted for,” 
Firestar mewed. “Did any cat see him?” 

‘Not after the battle started,” Sharpclaw replied. 

“TPI go and look, if you like,’ Leafdapple offered. 
“Though it might be better to wait until dawn. It can’t 
be far off.” 

“I think you’re right,” Firestar began, reluctant to let 
any cat go wandering about in the darkness. They 
couldn’t be sure that the danger from the rats was 
over. “We’ll both go when—” 

He was interrupted by a plaintive cry from outside. 
“Hi! Is any cat there?” 

“Shortwhisker!” Sandstorm exclaimed. 

Full of relief, Firestar went to the cave entrance 
again. The first pale trace of dawn had begun to 


appear in the sky. By its light, he could see 
Shortwhisker hauling himself up from the river, looking 
as if he was almost too exhausted to put one paw in 
front of the other. 

“Over here!” Firestar called. 

Shortwhisker raised his head and quickened his pace 
a little. Firestar studied him as he drew closer. He had 
clumps of fur torn off both shoulders, and the marks of 
rats’ claws stretched along one flank, but apart from 
that he seemed okay. 

“It’s good to see you.” Firestar touched noses with 
him as he reached the cave. “That’s every cat. And 
none of us is seriously hurt, thank StarClan.” 

“I thought I was  crow-food for sure.” 
Shortwhisker’s eyes were wide with fear. “Three of 
them drove me into a tiny cave. All I could do was try 
to keep them off. Then suddenly they turned and 
vanished.” 

Firestar nodded. Trapping the cats in confined 
spaces where they couldn’t defend themselves had 
obviously been part of the rats’ strategy. Even if the 
rats’ leader hadn’t jomed in the attack himself, his 
clever, controlling mind was behind tt. 


Gesturing with his tail for Shortwhisker to enter the 
cave ahead of him, Firestar gazed around at the Clan. 
Echosong had finished with Clovertail and was 
examining Patchfoot’s old wound, while Sandstorm 
tended to Cherrypaw. The rest of the cats were lying 
close together, licking one another’s scratches. All of 
them looked exhausted. 

Sparrowpaw raised his head. “We didn’t win, did 
we? The rats chose to stop fighting.” 

“That’s true,” Firestar replied. “But we didn’t lose 
either. And the battle’s not over yet. We’re not waiting 
for them any longer. We must take the fight to them.” 

Sharpclaw pricked his ears. “Is that wise?” 

Firestar realized that the fight had taught Sharpclaw 
caution. “We don’t want the rats to have the 
advantage of planning the next attack. There won’t be 
so many places to trap cats outside the barn. The time 
is right.” 

A murmur of agreement came from the rest of the 
Clan. 

‘Pm coming with you,” Patchfoot announced. “I 
fought tonight. No cat can say I’m not fit enough.” 

“And me.” Clovertail lashed her tail. “Petal can look 


after the kits.” 

Firestar felt humbled by their courage: Patchfoot, 
whose wound would have given him the excuse to stay 
behind in safety; Clovertail, who was ready to fight not 
only for her kits but for her Clan; Shortwhisker, who 
was terrified but determined to overcome his fear. All 
of them had given up their old lives to make the dream 
of SkyClan a reality—and they had succeeded. The 
warrior code lived on in the gorge. 

Sharpclaw rose to his paws. “Then we’ll go 
tomorrow night, once the Twolegs are back in their 
nests,” he meowed. “And let’s hope there’s a moon. I 
like an enemy I can see.” 

The Clan yowled in approval of his words. 
Sharpclaw would make a good leader, Firestar 
thought. He met the ginger tom’s gaze; there was a 
challenge there, almost as if the same thought was 
going through Sharpclaw’s mind too. 

But something held Firestar back from offering him 
the leadership. He still felt it wasn’t his choice to 
make. And while Sharpclaw would be superb at 
leading his warriors into battle, Firestar wasn’t sure he 
appreciated everything that being Clan leader meant. 


It’s in the paws of his warrior ancestors, he told 
himself. And after tomorrow, who knows whether 
there will be a Clan left to lead? 


The Clan rested during the morning, but they were 
awake by sunhigh, gathering in the training area for a 
last session to hone their battle skills. Firestar felt fresh 
energy running through his limbs as he practiced 
fighting moves with Rainfur: this was what he had 
been trained to do, even if this time he wasn’t fighting 
for his own Clan. Looking at the determined faces 
around him, watching the expert use of teeth and 
claws, he knew that SkyClan wouldn’t be driven from 
the gorge a second time. The descendants of the first 
Clan had returned, and they would fight to their last 
breath for the right to live here. 

Sandstorm was drawing the training session to an 
end when Echosong and Petal came padding up the 
gorge, their eyes gleaming with satisfaction. 

“We’ve collected a whole pile of burdock root,” 
Petal announced proudly. 

“And poppyseed,” Echosong added. “Sandstorm, 


you said it’s good for pain, but I didn’t know where to 
find it before.” 

“My old Twoleg has poppies in his garden,” Petal 
explained. 

“I hope you didn’t have any trouble with the 
Twoleg,” Firestar meowed. 

Petal flicked her tail dismissively. “He came out of 
the nest and yowled a bit, but he couldn’t catch us.” 

Firestar couldn’t bring himself to warn her about 
taking risks. There would be wounded warriors after 
the battle who would be glad of the relief poppyseeds 
would give them. 

Echosong’s eyes were brimming with amusement. 
“Clovertail sent her kits to look for cobwebs,” she 
reported. “You’ve never seen so many—all over the 
kits! They worked really hard.” 

“Its time they were apprenticed,’ mewed 
Sandstorm. 

“Soon,” Firestar agreed. His heart was warmed by 
the thought of a future for the Clan. SkyClan had so 
much to lose—but so much to win as well! 

Petal padded over to Rainfur and murmured 
something into his ear. The gray rogue nodded; then 


both cats approached Firestar. 

“We talked things over this morning,” Rainfur began, 
looking unusually hesitant. “We’ve decided that we 
want to become members of SkyClan—if you will 
have us, that is.” 

“That’s great news!” Firestar exclaimed. 

Rainfur met his gaze, his eyes wide and serious. 
“We’ve seen for ourselves how the warrior code 
works.” 

“Yes,” Petal agreed. “And there’s no other life we 
want for ourselves and our kits.” 

Sharpclaw stepped forward to stand beside Firestar. 
“You’re welcome to join us,” he meowed, and the rest 
of the Clan murmured agreement. “You know how 
much we need strong warriors. We receive you 
humbly and we give you our thanks.” 


As the sun went down, Firestar called Rainfur and 
Petal to the foot of the Rockpile for their warrior 
ceremony. The rest of the Clan stood in a circle, their 
eyes bright and ther fur already fluffed up in 
anticipation of the battle. 


“I, Firestar, leader of ThunderClan and mentor to 
SkyClan, call upon their warrior ancestors to look 
down upon these cats,’ he began. “They have 
dedicated themselves to your warrior code, and I 
commend them to you as warriors in thei turn.” 
Padding up to Rainfur, he went on. “Rainfur, do you 
promise to uphold the warrior code and to protect and 
defend this Clan, even at the cost of your life?” 

Rainfur held his head high; there was no doubt in his 
voice as he meowed, “I do.” 

“Then by the powers of StarClan I confirm your 
warrior name. Rainfur, StarClan trusts you will serve 
your new Clan with honor and courage.” 

He rested his muzzle on Rainfur’s head, and the 
gray warrior licked his shoulder. 

“Petal,” Firestar went on, turning to the pale gray 
she-cat, “do you promise to uphold the warrior code 
and to protect and defend this Clan, even at the cost of 
your life?” 

“T do.” Petal sounded just as certain as her mate. 

“Then by the powers of StarClan I give you your 
warrior name. Petal, from this moment you will be 
known as Petalnose. StarClan honors your endurance 


and your strength, and SkyClan welcomes you.” 

As he completed the ceremony, the cats of SkyClan 
called out the names of the new warriors, yowling 
them like a challenge to the darkening sky. Firestar 
glowed with pride for all the SkyClan cats; thanks to 
them, the Clan had gained two strong warriors and two 
healthy kits. He could see a great future in the Clan for 
Petalnose and Rainfur. 

The yowling died away as the sun sank behind the 
cliffs and night covered the gorge. The waxing moon 
gave a fitful light as it appeared from behind the clouds 
that scudded across the sky. There was a stiff breeze 
with a hint of frost. 

Firestar sent his warriors up to the top of the cliff 
while he paid a final visit to the nursery. Echosong and 
Petalnose had returned there with the five kits, who 
crouched in their nests among the moss and bracken, 
gazing at Firestar with a mixture of fear and 
excitement. 

“You'll be as safe here as anywhere,” Firestar told 
them. “The entrance is narrow.” 

Petalnose nodded. “We’ll be fine. Don’t worry 
about us, Firestar. And we’ll look after the kits, or die 


trying.” 

“If the worst happens,” Firestar promised, “every 
warrior who survives will come back here and help 
you defend them.” 

“The worst won’t happen.” Echosong’s voice was 
clear and certain as she padded up to Firestar. “Go 
now—I’ll see you when you come back.” 

Firestar thought of the brutal battle that lay ahead. 
Though he still had six lives, they could all be torn from 
him at once if his wounds were severe enough. He 
remembered how Tigerstar had died, ripped open by 
Scourge, and he shivered. 

Though he said nothing, he knew that Echosong had 
guessed where his thoughts were leading. “T will see 
you again,’ she mewed, and her words had the 
conviction of a prophecy. 


CHAPTER 32 


Firestar hauled himself over the edge of the cliff and 
into the undergrowth. For a heartbeat, until his eyes 
grew used to the thick darkness under the bushes, he 
couldn’t see any cat, though SkyClan scent was all 
around him. 

Cherrypaw hissed into his ear. “This way.” 

Followng her, he came to the edge of the 
undergrowth and found the SkyClan warriors 
crouching under the outermost branches of the thicket, 
gazing across the scrubland toward the Twoleg barn. 
He remembered his fears back in the forest, before the 
battle with BloodClan. He had struggled then with the 
thought of leading his Clan into a battle from which 
some of them might not return. His deputy, 
Whitestorm, had told him that he didn’t envy him his 
position. Bluestar had assured him in a dream that he 
had the strength he needed. In the end he had 
understood that making such decisions was part of the 
burden of being a leader. 

Now he looked at the SkyClan warriors, at the 


eagerness in their eyes as they gazed toward their 
enemies’ nest, and he shrank from the order that he 
had to give. This battle had been started—and lost— 
long ago. Firestar was not their leader. What right had 
he to ask them to fight now? There were so few of 
them, and they had been given so little time to learn the 
skills of a warrior. 

He was aware of Leafdapple rising to her paws and 
padding along the line of bushes until she stood in front 
of him. “You fear for us,” she meowed. 

Firestar nodded, words stuck in his throat like a 
tough piece of fresh-kill. 

“We fear for ourselves,’ Leafdapple went on 
quietly. “But this is our battle, not yours. We owe it to 
the SkyClan cats who walked here before to try once 
more to defeat these rats. You do not have to come. 
Should ThunderClan risk losing their leader for another 
Clan’s sake?” 

Firestar gazed at her with a mixture of admiration 
and disbelief. Where had her courage come from, and 
her commitment to the warrior code? But what 
impressed him most was that she realized his first 
loyalty lay not with this Clan, but with the Clanmates 


he had left behind in the forest. 

He dipped his head to her. “I have brought you this 
far,” he murmured. “I will see you to the end of your 
journey.” Touching noses with Leafdapple, he sprang 
to his paws. “It’s time.” 


Firestar flattened himself to the ground behind a 
straggling gorse bush a few tail-lengths from the fence 
that surrounded the Twoleg barn. Everything was 
quiet. The barn looked deserted, the moon’s pale light 
reflecting from its shiny surface, the holes in its sides 
gaping like jaws. The only sign that it was inhabited 
was the sharp stink of rat and crow-food. 

“I wish I knew where the rats had their nest,” 
Firestar muttered. 

“Inside, I'd guess,’ Sharpclaw slid up to him and 
mewed into his ear. “They’re always well hidden 
during the day. Our patrols have never spotted them.” 

Firestar dug his claws into the ground. “I’d hoped 
we wouldn’t have to fight inside there.” 

“It’s not like a cave,” Sparrowpaw pointed out. “It’s 
huge. There’s plenty of room to get away.” 


Firestar knew he was right, but the thought of trying 
to fight with walls around him and a roof blocking out 
the sky made him feel trapped and helpless. The 
former kittypets might see it differently, he supposed. 
They were used to being inside. But his own kittypet 
days were so far behind him, it was hard to imagine 
feeling like that. 

“TI lead half the patrol inside,” Sharpclaw offered. 
“The rest of you can stay out here, and with any luck 
we'll be able to lure the rats outside and fight in the 
open.” 

Firestar nodded. “Good idea. PI come in with you.” 
He knew he couldn’t allow the ginger tom to go 
somewhere he dared not go himself. 

“We want to come too,” Cherrypaw whispered. 

“Okay. And Shortwhisker,’ Firestar added. “The 
rest of you stay outside. Sandstorm, you’re in charge.” 

His mate gave him a brief nod. Keeping low, his 
belly fur brushing the grass, Firestar led the way up to 
the fence and crept along it until he found the gap they 
had used to enter on their previous visit. He slid 
through with the rest of the patrol close behind. 

Firestar’s pelt crawled as he surveyed the barn from 


close up. It loomed over his head, a shiny, unnatural 
Twoleg thing, with death at its heart. Were the rats 
aware that their enemies were only pawsteps away? 
He couldn’t feel the malevolent force that had been his 
first inkling of the rats’ presence, but he found it hard 
to believe that no eyes, glittering and malignant, were 
watching them now. 

“What are we waiting for?” Sharpclaw hissed. 

Firestar glanced back to check that Sandstorm and 
her patrot—Leafdapple, Patchfoot, Clovertail, and 
Rainfur—were all inside the fence. He gathered his 
own patrol with a wave of his tail, and crept up to the 
nearest gap in the barn wall. Leaping through it, he 
padded forward a pace or two to allow the others to 
follow, and looked around. 

The stench of rat and crow-food was much stronger 
here. His claws scraped on the hard floor, made of the 
same white stone that surrounded the barn on the 
outside, and the sound echoed eerily in the vast space. 
Firestar remembered Barley and Ravenpaw’s barn, 
made cozy with piles of hay and filled with the rustling 
and squeaking of mice. The bare, cold emptiness of 
this barn sent shudders through his fur. 


On either side the barn lay in shadow, but moonlight 
filtering through ragged holes in the roof showed him a 
huge pile of Twoleg rubbish against the wall at the far 
end of the barn. 

“The rats’ nest is probably in there,’ Firestar 
whispered to Sharpclaw. 

Sharpclaw nodded. “Let’s hope the stink of it will 
hide our scent.” 

Firestar beckoned the rest of the patrol with his tail. 
Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw were glancing around 
with more curiosity than fear. Shortwhisker looked 
terrified, his fur fluffed out until he was twice his size, 
but he padded up determinedly at Firestar’s summons. 

“We’re going to head for the nest,’ Firestar told 
them. “When the rats appear, race for the gaps and get 
outside. With any luck, the rats will follow you.” 

The patrol spread out into a ragged line across the 
barn and started to pad up to the pile of rubbish. 
Firestar felt horribly exposed, his heart pounding so 
rapidly he could hardly get his breath. Nothing moved 
among the rotting mounds of Twoleg stuff. 

They were less than a fox-length from the pile when 
Firestar heard a scratching noise behind him, followed 


by a gasp of terror from Shortwhisker. For a heartbeat 
he froze, then whipped around to confront rows and 
rows of rats. More rats than he had ever seen before 
had crept out of the shadows, covering the floor 
between the patrol and the gap where they had 
entered. 

Firestar’s gaze darted over them, trying to pick out 
the leader, but all the sleek, dark brown bodies looked 
the same to him. Then a voice spoke, but the sound 
echoed around the bare walls of the barn so that he 
couldn’t tell which rat was talking. 

“We killed you before. We will kill you again. You 
are few. We are more.” 

Sharpclaw let out a snarl of rage and leaped at the 
first row of rats. 

“Stop!” Firestar yowled. 

The ginger tom halted, glaring at him. “What now?” 

“We must stick together,’ Firestar explained, 
drawing the rest of the patrol into a huddle around him 
with a gesture of his tail. “If they separate us, we’re 
finished. We have to get outside, where we won’t be 
trapped.” 

He had hardly finished speaking when the first wave 


of rats crashed over them. Facing outward, lashing out 
with claws and teeth, the patrol began to force a way 
through them, back toward the gap where they had 
entered. There was a second gap, but it was on the far 
side of the barn, and even more rats blocked their way 
to it. Firestar reminded himself that he had six lives to 
lose, while the cats around him had only one; he would 
have to fight harder to match their courage. 

Rats swarmed around them, climbing on top of one 
another in their eagerness to sink in claws and teeth. 
But there were too many of them; they hadn’t the 
space to fight effectively. Firestar took a bite on one 
foreleg and a few nasty scratches around his head, but 
with the patrol tightly clustered together the rats 
couldn’t attack from behind, couldn’t attack at all 
without coming within reach of the warriors’ furious 
defense. 

The gap was only a couple of tail-lengths away; 
Firestar began to hope that they would make it out into 
the open. 

Then he heard a fearsome screech from outside. 
Rainfur leaped through the gap, with the rest of the 
patrol streaming behind him, and fell on the rats from 


behind. 

Firestar let out a yowl of frustration. “No! Get 
back!” 

The outside patrol obviously thought they had to 
come to the rescue; instead, they were putting every 
cat in worse danger. Screeching knots of cats and rats 
writhed on the floor in front of the gap, making it 
harder to get out. The outside patrol was already 
separated, each one fighting alone against a swarm of 
rats. 

Before Firestar could yowl an order, his own patrol 
sprang apart, leaping to help their Clanmates. The 
whole barn exploded in blood and rage. The warriors’ 
furious screeches mingled with the dying screams of 
the rats, yet where one fell, two more took its place. 
Firestar spotted Clovertail batting rats away with both 
forepaws; Sharpclaw and Cherrypaw fought side by 
side, forcing their way through wave after wave of 
attacking rats. 

“Out! Every cat get out!” Firestar screeched. 

Sandstorm leaped across a cluster of snarling rats 
and landed at his side. “Sorry!” She gasped. “I 
couldn’t stop them from coming in.” She bared her 


teeth at a rat as it scuttled toward her; it flinched and 
spun around, right into Firestar’s outstretched paws. 
Fierce satisfaction surged through Firestar as he 
clawed its life out; whatever the end might be, it was 
good to fight side by side with Sandstorm again. 

Gradually the SkyClan cats won their way back to 
the gap. Leafdapple shoved Sparrowpaw out and 
followed him. Patchfoot slipped out after her, then 
Shortwhisker. Clovertail shook off one rat with its 
fangs in her shoulder, struck another across the side of 
the head with one paw, and sprang out into the open. 
For the first time, Firestar let himself hope that they 
would all get out. 

He spotted Sharpclaw and Cherrypaw side by side a 
couple of fox-lengths away, in the midst of a ring of 
dead or dying rats. “Out!” he yowled, waving his tail at 
the gap. 

Sharpclaw snapped something at Cherrypaw; she 
opened her jaws to argue, and while she was 
distracted a rat leaped onto her back. She staggered, 
her claws skidding on the blood-soaked floor, then 
collapsed on one side. Sharpclaw leaped for her, 
tearing the rat off her back and shaking it fiercely 


before tossing it aside. Hauling his stunned apprentice 
to her paws, he clawed a way through the horde of 
rats, driving them back like leaves in the wind. With 
relief, Firestar saw mentor and apprentice disappear 
through the gap. 

For a heartbeat he thought that only he and 
Sandstorm were left in the barn. Then he spotted 
Rainfur still two or three fox-lengths from the gap, in a 
circle of rats that was gradually closing on him. 
Rainfur glanced back to see where the gap was, and at 
that moment a huge rat leaped at him and fastened its 
fangs in his throat. The SkyClan warrior vanished 
under a heap of squirming bodies. 

“Get out!” Firestar ordered Sandstorm. “TIl help 
Rainfur.” 

“T’m not leaving without you,” Sandstorm replied. 

There was no time to argue. Firestar sprang 
forward, leaping over one rat and knocking a second 
out of his path, to fling himself on the creatures that 
were attacking Rainfur. The gray warrior was barely 
visible under the mass of rats. They split apart at the 
sound of Firestar’s furious yowl, and Rainfur 
scrambled to his feet, only to be pulled down again. 


Firestar landed among them, clawing and spitting. 
He bit down on the neck of one rat, and it slumped to 
the floor. Another fell back, writhing and squealing, its 
blood spurting as he raked his claws across its eyes 
and muzzle. He had almost reached Rainfur when 
more rats surged around him, and a weight landed on 
his back, carrying him off his paws. 

His head struck the hard floor of the barn, stunning 
him. For a few heartbeats he scrabbled with his paws, 
trying to get up. Then sharp claws fastened themselves 
in his throat, and his whole body spasmed with the 
pain. 

Evil rat eyes stared into his, glittering with malice. A 
voice rasped, “Die, cat!” 

Firestar struggled to sink his claws into the body that 
was pinning him down. This must be the leader of the 
rats! Kill him, and the battle would be over. 

But there was no strength in Firestar’s limbs, and 
the moonlight seemed to be fading, leaving him in a 
cave of echoing darkness. For a couple of heartbeats 
longer he was aware of those eyes, twin points of 
hatred. Then night closed down over him, and he knew 
nothing more. 


CHAPTER 33 


Firestar opened his eyes to see a pale light 
glimmering all around him. At first he thought he was 
still in the barn. But he couldn’t understand the silence, 
and the lack of any scent of rat. 

After a moment’s struggle he managed to sit up, and 
realized that he was in the Whispering Cave, the 
mosses glowing eerily around him and the underground 
river sliding past on its way to the opening. 

How did I get here? he wondered. 

Then he saw that he was not alone. The ancient 
SkyClan leader was sitting at the other side of the 
cave. “Greetings,” he meowed. 

Firestar began to understand. “Have I lost another 
life?” he rasped. 

The SkyClan leader bowed his head. Now Firestar 
could make out the outline of a flame-colored cat just 
behind him in the shadows. His pelt and his green eyes 
glowed; Firestar recognized himself as the shape 
dipped his head slightly. 

Firestar staggered to his paws. “Let me go back,” 


he begged the SkyClan cat. “I’ve got to help Rainfur. 
I’ve got to save SkyClan—isn’t that what you want?” 

The SkyClan ancestor rose and padded across the 
cave to Firestar. His scent was a mingling of frost and 
wind and the night sky. Breathing it, Firestar felt 
energy begin to flow back into his aching, exhausted 
limbs. 

“Go now,” the SkyClan cat murmured. “And may 
my strength go with you.” 

The pale light of the mosses faded, and for a 
heartbeat Firestar hung in a dark void. Then he felt a 
paw shaking his shoulder and heard Sandstorm’s voice. 
“Firestar! Firestar!” 

He blinked awake to see his mate crouched over 
him, anguish in her green eyes. “Firestar!” she 
repeated. “Get up—the rats are coming.” 

Firestar raised his head to find himself lying on the 
ground outside the barn. His chest was matted with 
blood that had flowed from the wound in his throat. 

Rats were already swarming through the gap in the 
barn wall. Sandstorm shoved Firestar to his feet, and 
with Leafdapple supporting him on the other side, he 
managed to stagger as far as a stunted tree, several 


tai-lengths from the fence. The rest of the cats had 
already scrambled into its branches, all except 
Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw, who waited at the 
bottom. 

“Climb!” Cherrypaw urged as Firestar and the other 
she-cats limped up. “Don’t wait for us. We can leap up 
after.” 

“No...” Firestar tried to hold back. “We’ll be 
trapped. We have to get out through the fence.” 

Sparrowpaw waved his tail. “Have you seen it?” 

Firestar’s heart sank. All along the line of the fence, 
clustering most thickly around the gap the cats had 
used to get in, were hordes of rats. Their eyes seemed 
to glitter with triumph. They had the cats trapped now, 
with all the time in the world to finish them off. The 
only possible safety, for a short while, was this tree. 

Firestar clawed his way up the trunk and found a 
space to crouch on a broad branch. Looking around, he 
spotted Shortwhisker, Sharpclaw, Clovertail.... 

“Rainfur?” He gasped. “Where’s Rainfur?” 

“I’m sorry.” Sandstorm clung to the branch beside 
him. “Rainfur didn’t make it.” 

Firestar’s gaze flew to the barn and he tensed his 


muscles, half prepared to spring down and battle his 
way back inside to help the warrior. 

“It’s no use, Firestar.” Sandstorm rested her tail tip 
gently on his shoulder. “Rainfur is dead.” Pain 
throbbed through her voice as she added, “I could save 
only one of you, Firestar, and I had to choose you.” 

Firestar remembered how he and Rainfur had 
rescued Petalnose, and how Rainfur had saved him 
from falling into the gorge when the rats attacked the 
camp the night before. He remembered the great 
future he had foreseen for the gray warrior. Now he 
was dead, and the remnants of SkyClan were huddled 
in this tree while rats swarmed over the ground below, 
just waiting to finish them off. Firestar had failed: failed 
the Clan, and Skywatcher, and the SkyClan ancestor 
who had sent him here. The fifth forest Clan would be 
destroyed all over again. Sighing, Firestar rested his 
head against Sandstorm’s flank, too weary to move. 

“We can’t give up!” It was Leafdapple, speaking 
from a branch just above Firestar’s head. “Are we 
going to let Rainfur die for nothing?” When no cat 
answered her, she went on. “The rats have no more 
right to live here than we do. Aren’t we going to fight 


for what’s ours?” 

Firestar looked up to see the tabby she-cat standing 
commandingly on her branch. Her eyes glowed with 
courage. Around her the other cats were stirring, 
seeming to catch something of the fire that blazed 
within her. 

‘T'I fight with you,” Sharpclaw snarled. “They’ Il kill 
us anyway, but I’ll take a few of them with me.” 

A chorus of voices rose up around Firestar, vowing 
to fight on, whatever happened. Even Shortwhisker 
agreed, though his fur was bristling and his eyes were 
blank with terror. 

“We’re a Clan now,” Clovertail declared, “and this is 
where we belong. We’ve got to fight for that.” 

Firestar hauled himself to his feet, digging his claws 
into the branch. His head was clearing now, and the 
strength of his next life flowed into his lmbs—the 
strength of the SkyClan ancestor who had brought him 
here believing that he would not fail. 

“I honor your courage,” he meowed. “And PI fight 
with you. You can have all my lives and all my strength 
if it will help you beat these rats.” 

He was aware of Sandstorm’s ears pricking in 


surprise, but he meant every word. This was the right 
thing to do by the warrior code. For tonight, he was not 
the leader of ThunderClan, but a member of SkyClan. 

“But what are we going to do?” Patchfoot asked in 
a small voice. 

Firestar looked down. The tree was surrounded by 
sinuous rat bodies, their sharp eyes fixed on the 
warriors who had taken refuge in the branches. 
Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw still stood at its foot, 
ready to spring up to jom their Clanmates if the rats 
attacked. 

But the rats seemed to be in no hurry. Firestar could 
tell they thought the battle was over, and they could 
wipe out the remaining cats as slowly as they wished. 

“The rats are acting together,’ he thought out loud. 
“Like a swarm of bees or a pack of dogs. Last night 
they stopped attacking us and all turned tail at once. 
Something is controlling them. They must be taking 
orders from the leading rat.” 

“So kill him,” Sharpclaw hissed, flexing his claws, 
“and the rest of them will flee.” 

“T hope so,” Firestar replied grimly. 

“That’s all very well,” Patchfoot meowed. “But how 


do we tell which one is the leader? They all look the 
same to me.” 

Firestar thought back to the last heartbeats of his 
previous life, when he had faced the rat leader inside 
the barn. His neck fur bristled at the memory of the 
malignant eyes and the hoarse voice telling him to die. 

“Only the leader can speak the tongue of cats,” he 
meowed. “If we can make him talk to us, we’ll know 
which one he is.” 

“And then...” Sharpclaw slashed one paw, claws 
extended, through the air. 

Firestar glanced around. The SkyClan warriors 
were ready for action now, their eyes eager, their 
wounds and weariness forgotten. Even Shortwhisker 
seemed to have pulled back from the brink of his 
panic. 

“We’ll have to climb down,” he began. “The rats 
will sit there forever if we stay up this tree.” 

Taking the lead, he scrambled down to the cold, hard 
ground, landing beside the two apprentices. The rest of 
the Clan followed him in silence and stood gazing out 
across the mass of rats. Firestar noticed that the 
SkyClan descendants—Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw, 


Shortwhisker and Sharpclaw—moved into position on 
the outside of the little group, as if they meant to 
protect their Clanmates who couldn’t escape up the 
tree so easily. 

As they descended, a ripple passed through the 
crowd of rats, and they edged a little nearer. Firestar 
raised his head and faced them. 

“You’re brave enough when you're all together,” he 
taunted them. “But I bet you wouldn’t be so brave on 
your own. I don’t suppose even your clever leader 
would come out and face me.” 

Not a rat moved. 

“Cowards!” Sharpclaw sneered. “Crow-food-eating, 
skulking vermin!” 

“Come and fight!” Firestar hurled the challenge 
against a wall of silence. Panic began to prickle in his 
fur. The leading rat was obviously clever enough not to 
show himself. 

The cats pressed their backs to the tree as the rats 
crept a little nearer. Another few heartbeats, Firestar 
thought, and they would surge forward. The SkyClan 
cats would fight on for a little while, but sooner or later 
they would be overwhelmed. Once more SkyClan 


would become nothing more than a memory. What can 
I do? he asked himself, anguished. 

Then a familiar scent drifted around him, and his 
paws tingled. Spottedleaf? He glanced from side to 
side, but there was no sign of the tortoiseshell she-cat. 
Only a soft voice that murmured in his ear: Not many, 
but one. 

Then the sense of her presence faded. Wait! 
Firestar protested in his head. J dont understand! 
How could Spottedleaf say that there were not many 
rats here? 

He stared out at his enemies, the moonlight washing 
over them so that their bodies merged together like 
ripples on a lake. And as he watched the tide ebb and 
flow, he began to realize what Spottedleaf had meant. 
He had thought of the rats as a swarm of bees or a 
dog pack, taking their orders from their leader, but 
Spottedleaf had shown him it was more than that. 
These creatures were like a single enemy; the 
individual rats had no minds of their own. They took 
their orders from one rat alone, passed from body to 
body in visible signals, a twitch of fur or flick of tail, the 
brush of one flank against another. If he watched the 


ripples, they should lead him to the rat he was looking 
for. 

The rats edged a little closer. Firestar was aware of 
Sandstorm beside him, her pelt brushing his, her claws 
digging into the tree root where she stood poised to 
spring. Hardly daring to breathe, he stared out at the 
rats, knowing that they could strike at any moment. He 
forced himself to stop looking at one pair of eyes here, 
a snakelike tail there, and studied them like the surface 
of a single lake. 

Icy claws pricked his spine. Sure enough, he could 
make out tiny stirrings of movement circling a central 
point, the place from where the leader’s silent 
commands rippled outward. And at that central point, a 
single rat gazed toward the besieged cats. 

Firestar narrowed his eyes. There was no time to 
explain what he was domg to the rest of the patrol. He 
had just one chance, one chance to ensure that he had 
not traveled here in vain, and SkyClan would live on. 
Unsheathing his claws, he leaped, legs outstretched, 
into the middle of the mass of rats. 

Horrified wails rose from the cats behind him. He 
heard Sandstorm screech, “Firestar!” 


Her voice was drowned out by the single shriek that 
rose from the throats of every rat, and they rushed 
upon him like a thick brown wave. But Firestar’s 
claws struck their target, tearing at the throat of the rat 
at the center of the tide. He gazed into the small, hate- 
filled eyes, and saw their hatred change to terror 
before the light faded from them. The rat’s head 
dropped back and its body went limp. 

For a heartbeat Firestar stood still, his paws sticky 
with blood. Rats milled around him, squeaking and 
hissing in confusion. With their leader dead, they did 
not know what to do next. 

“Follow me! Attack!” The yowl came from 
Sharpclaw, and suddenly Firestar’s Clanmates were all 
around him, claws lashing at their enemies. Gibbering 
in terror, the rats fled back toward the barn, scrabbling 
at the shiny walls in their efforts to get in and hide. The 
SkyClan cats raced past Firestar, dealing a death blow 
to any rat too slow to get out of their way. 

“Stay away from us!” Sharpclaw screeched after 
them. “The gorge is ours. We’ll kill any rats who set 
paw there!” 

Leafdapple halted at the gap, stopping the rest of the 


SkyClan cats from following the rats inside. “Let them 
go,” she meowed. “They’re not dangerous anymore. 
Not now.” 

She padded back to Firestar, who still stood over the 
body of his dead enemy, and bowed her head in 
deepest gratitude. “The battle is won. Thanks to you, 
SkyClan is safe.” 


When the rats had fled, Firestar ventured into the 
barn with Sharpclaw and Leafdapple. Two or three 
rats were still visible, sniffing at the bodies of their 
dead companions, but when they spotted the cats they 
let out squeals of alarm and scurried into the shelter of 
the Twoleg rubbish at the far end of the barn. 

Rainfur’s body lay stretched out on the floor. Dead 
rats lay all around him, and his claws were still 
fastened in the throat of one of them. His gray fur was 
torn with wounds. 

“He died like a warrior,” Leafdapple murmured. 

“We’ll carry him back to the gorge and sit vigil for 
him,” Firestar meowed. 

In silence they took up his body and maneuvered it 


through the gap in the barn wall. The rest of the Clan 
clustered around them to help bear Rainfur through the 
fence and back across the scrubland to the gorge, 
under the light of the chill moon. His body drooped, his 
paws and tail dragging in the dust, and his fur was 
matted with blood. 

As Sharpclaw and Leafdapple carried their dead 
Clanmate down the stony trail, Echosong appeared at 
the entrance to the nursery. “You’re back!” she 
exclaimed. She broke off at the sight of Rainfur’s 
broken body, and sorrow welled in her eyes. “PI tell 
Petalnose,” she whispered. 

She slipped around the boulder, and a moment later 
Firestar heard a wail of anguish. 

“Go on,” he murmured to Sharpclaw and 
Leafdapple. “Lay his body beside the Rockpile. I’ Il join 
you in a few moments.” 

Taking a deep breath, he padded into the nursery. 
Petalnose was crouched over her kits, her eyes wide 
and staring at nothing. Echosong pressed comfortingly 
against her side, but Firestar didn’t think the gray she- 
cat was aware of her. 

“T’m sorry,” he meowed. “He died like a warrior.” 


Petalnose shivered and focused her eyes on him. 
“He died protecting what he loved most,’ she 
whispered. “Me, and his kits, and his new Clan.” 

Firestar tried to find words that would comfort her. 
“He hunts with his ancestors now.” 

Petalnose’s eyes were bleak, and she did not 
respond. Firestar dared not say any more. This young 
Clan had no experience of their ancestors yet, so how 
could Petalnose have faith that Rainfur had found 
anything after his death? 

“He was a brave cat,” he mewed instead. “I’m 
honored to have known him.” 


As the night went on, the Clan gathered around the 
body of Rainfur to keep vigil for him. Echosong guided 
Petalnose and her two kits down from the nursery, and 
the she-cat crouched beside her mate, pushing her 
nose into his cold gray fur. Sagekit and Mintkit huddled 
on each side of her, while Echosong sat at Rainfur’s 
head, her gaze fixed on the distant stars. 

Remembering the fidgety, superstitious vigil for 
Skywatcher, Firestar realized how far the Clan had 


moved on. Now there was a genuine sense of loss and 
respect for the fallen warrior. But his heart ached 
when he reminded himself that rebuilding the Clan had 
led directly to Rainfur’s death. If he had decided to 
remain a rogue, he would still be alive. 

Restlessness pricked at Firestar’s paws, and as the 
sky turned gray with the first light of dawn, he climbed 
up the trail to the Skyrock and sat alone, looking down 
into the gorge. Have I done the right thing? Since 
being here he had learned so much about himself and 
what it meant to be a Clan leader, but that wasn’t why 
he had come. Was it fair to ask these cats to give up 
their lives for the warrior code, when they had lived 
happily and peacefully before? 

A sweet scent drifted around him, the only scent 
that could comfort him now. A pelt brushed against his, 
and a voice murmured in his ear. 

“Don’t grieve,’ Sandstorm whispered. “You have 
saved SkyClan.” 

“But Rainfur’s dead.” 

“I know. But the SkyClan cats made their own 
decision to fight for the gorge, and the warrior code— 
and their Clan. The battle has brought them together 


as nothing else could have.” 

Firestar shifted uneasily, wanting to believe what his 
mate said, wanting to believe that what had been won 
was worth Rainfur’s death. 

“Life can’t go on without death,’ Sandstorm went 
on. “Rainfur died like the greatest warrior, fighting for 
his Clan. Wherever his warrior ancestors are, they will 
have been watching, and will be waiting for him now.” 

“I know.” Sandstorm’s words eased some of the 
pain in his heart, but Firestar knew that many moons 
would pass before he could forget the sight of 
Rainfur’s body surrounded by his dead enemies, 
knowing that he had led the gray cat there to die. 


CHAPTER 34 


The sun was edging above the cliffs when Firestar 
and Sandstorm padded down into the gorge again. 
Rainfur’s body still lay at the foot of the Rockpile, but 
the Clan were relaxing from their vigil; only Petalnose 
remained close to him, her two kits sleeping beside her. 
Echosong sat at the entrance to her cave, piles of 
herbs around her as she examined Patchfoot’s fresh 
wounds. 

Firestar knew he should get his own wounds treated, 
but before he could head for the medicine cat’s den, 
Leafdapple bounded over to him. Firestar saw that her 
eyes were troubled, and a pang of alarm shot through 
him. Surely there couldn’t be more danger? 

“What’s the matter?” he asked. 

“It’s Shortwhisker.” Leafdapple glanced back to 
where the tabby tom was standing beside Sharpclaw, 
Cherrypaw, and Sparrowpaw. “He says he wants to 
leave the Clan. He wants to go back to his housefolk.” 

“What?” Firestar brushed past her and headed for 
the little knot of cats. 


“Are you completely mouse-brained?” Sharpclaw 
was arguing as he came up. “You stuck with us 
through all the danger from the rats, and now that 
we’ve shown them this is our home, you want to 
leave? You’ve got bees in your brain!” 

Shortwhisker flinched and turned to Firestar with a 
look of relief. “I’m sorry,’ he began. “But the rat 
attack just showed me that I’m not cut out for life in a 
Clan.” 

“You did your duty like a warrior,” Firestar meowed. 

“But I was scared,” Shortwhisker protested. 
“Scared to the roots of my pelt.” 

“And you think the rest of us weren’t?” Sharpclaw 
growled. 

Leafdapple padded up and touched Sharpclaw’s 
shoulder with her tail tip. “Don’t be angry,” she 
mewed. “We can’t force him to understand.” Turning 
to Shortwhisker, she added, “We’ll respect your 
decision. But all the same, we wish you would stay.” 

“We’ll miss you,” Cherrypaw told him. 

Shortwhisker still faced Firestar, and addressed his 
words to him. “I was scared,” he repeated. “And I 
knew that I didn’t want to give up my life for the sake 


of my Clan.” He hung his head. “I’m a coward, and 
selfish,” he murmured. “But I can’t change the way I 
feel.” 

“You’re not selfish or a coward,” Firestar told him. 
“The warrior code isn’t right for every cat.” He 
remembered his friend Ravenpaw, forced to leave 
ThunderClan for fear of Tigerstar, and now living 
happily with Barley on the Twoleg farm near 
Highstones. “You must choose the path that suits you 
best.” 

“Then that’s the path of a kittypet.” Shortwhisker 
glanced around the circle of his friends, and though his 
eyes were regretful, his voice was certain. 

“Were stil your friends, Shortwhisker—” 
Sparrowpaw began. 

“Thats not my name anymore,” Shortwhisker 
interrupted him. “I guess you’d better call me Hutch 
again.” 

For the last time he climbed the trail to the top of the 
cliff; Firestar, Leafdapple, and Sharpclaw followed 
him. Hutch pushed his way through the belt of 
undergrowth and paused at the edge of the scrubland. 

“Good-bye,” he meowed. “I’m proud to have been a 


SkyClan cat; I really am.” 

“Good-bye.” Cherrypaw nudged him with her 
shoulder. “Make sure you keep that Oscar in his 
place.” 

“And tell the other kittypets about SkyClan,” 
Sparrowpaw added. 

Leafdapple dipped her head. “Farewell, Hutch. 
Don’t forget to come and visit us. You helped save 
SkyClan, and you’ ll always be welcome here.” 

Hutch brightened a little. “I won’t forget any of you 
—especially you, Firestar,” he added, glancing at the 
flame-colored tom. “You’ve taught me so much.” 

‘Tve learned from you, too,’ Firestar replied, 
meaning it. “May StarClan light your path.” 

The two toms touched noses; then Hutch turned and 
began to make his way toward the distant walls of the 
Twolegplace. His head and tail were held high, and he 
didn’t look back. 

“So that’s the end,’ Sharpclaw murmured, looking 
after him. “The last echo of our battle against the 
rats.” 

“No,” Leafdapple meowed. “There’s one more thing 
to do.” 


Firestar and Sharpclaw exchanged a mystified 
glance, and followed her down the trail to the warriors’ 
cave. Leafdapple stood facing the stone trunk with its 
ancient claw marks: the marks of many cats and the 
tiny claw marks of the rats scored across them as a 
sign of their long-ago victory. 

“This,” Leafdapple meowed. Extending her claws, 
she raked them down the stone, then again and a third 
time, until the rat scratches were obliterated under 
deep vertical scars. The record of the first defeat was 
gone. 

“Now the gorge belongs to SkyClan again,” the 
tabby she-cat announced. 


The days that followed the battle were gray with 
clouds. Stiff breezes blew with a tang of rain, and one 
morning Firestar emerged from the warriors’ den to 
find the rocks rimed with frost. He stood sniffing the 
cold air until Sandstorm appeared, fluffing up her pelt 
against the claws of the wind. 

“We should leave soon,” she murmured, with a 
glance behind to make sure she wasn’t rousing the 


sleeping warriors. “We can’t travel in leaf-bare. It'll be 
too cold to sleep out, and there’ll be precious little 
prey.” 

“There’s a while yet before leaf-bare,’ Firestar 
argued. 

Sandstorm fixed him with a glinting green gaze. 
“Don’t you trust SkyClan to survive without you?” 

“It’s not that,” Firestar protested. 

“The rats aren’t a threat anymore,” Sandstorm 
reminded him. 

“I know, but the rats aren’t the only problem. Will 
the SkyClan warriors be able to get along with one 
another without us to help them with patrols and 
duties? What about the kittypets in the Twolegplace... 
there could be trouble with them. And it'll be harder 
for them to find prey as the weather gets colder.” 

Sandstorm scraped her claws along the rock. 
“Firestar, will you listen to yourself? Every Clan has 
problems like those. Every cat has to work together to 
follow the warrior code, and if they do that they’ll be 
safe and well fed. The SkyClan cats know that now. 
You’ve done your part; you’ve found them a medicine 
cat—now it’s up to them.” 


Firestar knew that she was right. If he waited until 
he could be sure of unbroken peace and an easy life 
for SkyClan, he would never leave. Yet he knew too 
that he still had one more task to do. 

“We can’t leave yet,’ he meowed. “Not until we 
can be sure that SkyClan can reach their warrior 
ancestors. And part of that is finding out which cat 
StarClan has chosen to be leader.” 

Sandstorm blew out a long sigh, riffling her 
whiskers. “I suppose you’re right. But I hope it’s soon; 
that’s all.” 


Sandstorm roused Leafdapple; the two cats 
collected Sparrowpaw and left for the dawn patrol. 
Firestar padded back into the warriors’ den and found 
Patchfoot stirring. “Hunting patrol?” he suggested. 

Patchfoot sat up eagerly. “Sure. PI be right with 
you.” 

“TIl join you.” Sharpclaw raised his head from his 
mossy nest across the cave. “If that’s okay.” 

“T’d rather you led a separate patrol,” Firestar told 
him. “I want to take Cherrypaw and watch her hunting 


action, without her mentor breathing down her neck. 
It’s time she and Sparrowpaw were made warriors.” 

“Fine.” Sharpclaw’s eyes gleamed with approval. “T 
reckon they’re ready, too. PIH take Clovertail and 
Rain...” His voice trailed off. “Just Clovertail, I 
guess.” 

Firestar led his patrol downriver, across the spur of 
rock and into the trees. Leaves whirled in the air; only 
the last brittle remnants remained on the branches. The 
cold weather was here, and prey would be much 
scarcer through the long leaf-bare moons. Yet SkyClan 
was still small; if they were careful they should be able 
to feed themselves. 

He watched Cherrypaw stalk a squirrel across a 
stretch of open ground and bring it down with a mighty 
leap as it tried to escape up a tree. She was easily 
ready to become a warrior, but Firestar held back from 
telling her that. He wanted the new leader of SkyClan 
to give her and Sparrowpaw their warrior names—as 
soon as there was a sign from SkyClan’s warrior 
ancestors about which cat that would be. 

The three cats hunted until they had all the fresh-kill 
they could carry. There was no sense now of hostile 


eyes among the undergrowth, no scent or sound to 
suggest that the rats were still here. SkyClan had made 
this place their own. 

Firestar had returned to camp and was depositing 
his fresh-kill on the pile when Echosong padded up to 
him. 

“Firestar, I need to talk to you.” Her green eyes 
were puzzled. “Will you come to my den for a 
moment?” 

As she spoke, Firestar was irresistibly reminded of 
Spottedleaf and Cinderpelt. Echosong fit exactly into 
the role of a medicine cat now, though he knew her 
formal acceptance was another ceremony that rested 
in the paws of SkyClan’s warrior ancestors. 

She didn’t speak again until they were sitting in the 
outer cave, with the scents of sweet herbs all around 
them. “I was sorting herbs in here,” she began, “and I 
had a...I think you would call it a vision.” Looking 
almost embarrassed, she licked one small gray paw 
and drew it over her ear. 

Firestar’s paws tingled, but he made himself remain 
calm. “What was it?” 

“T thought I was gathering herbs in the wood above 


the gorge. I was alone, and yet I felt so safe and 
protected! It was as if kind eyes were all around me, 
watching over me....” 

“Go on,” Firestar encouraged. 

“The sun was shining, as if it was a warm day in 
green-leaf. And the shadows of leaves were dappling 
the ground all around me, so perfectly, like pebbles on 
the riverbed. I noticed them especially, because the 
leaves are dying now. The pattern of light and shade 
swirled around me, even though the leaves above my 
head were still. And then I was back here. It wasnt a 
dream, Firestar,’ she insisted. “I was awake all the 
time. Do you think it means anything, or am I making a 
fuss about nothing?” 

“StarClan send their signs for a reason,” Firestar 
replied. “All we have to do is work out what that is.” 
He sat silent for a moment, his eyes narrowed to slits, 
picturing the small tabby cat in the sunlit forest. “Warm 
sun. It’s leaf-bare now, but there were leaves dappling 
the ground...” he murmured. 

“Leafdapple!” Echosong burst out. “My warrior 
ancestors were teling me something about 
Leafdapple.” 


Every hair in Firestar’s pelt rose. This must be the 
sign SkyClan had been waiting for! Echosong’s vision 
showed that the Clan’s warrior ancestors really were 
watching over them. Even more important, they had 
sent the sign to Echosong and not to him. She was a 
true medicine cat now, with a connection to the starry 
spirits that would help her guide her Clan in the moons 
to come. 

The puzzled look gradually cleared from Echosong’s 
eyes. “What this Clan needs more than anything is a 
leader,’ she murmured. “Do you think they were 
showing me which cat it should be?” 

Firestar padded over to her and gave the top of her 
head an affectionate lick. He was purring so hard that 
he could hardly speak. “Yes, I think they were,” he 
murmured. “Leafdapple will be the leader of 
SkyClan.” 


Leafdapple paused with a bite of fresh-kill still 
between her jaws, her eyes wide with shock. “Me?” 
She swallowed rapidly. “Leader of SkyClan? 
Echosong, I think you’ve got bees in your brain!” 


As soon as the dawn patrol had returned to rest and 
eat, Firestar had taken Sandstorm aside to tell her 
about the sign. Then he and Echosong had found 
Leafdapple eating by the fresh-kill pile to give the 
news to her. 

“It’s got nothing to do with Echosong,” he assured 
the astonished she-cat. “Your warrior ancestors have 
chosen you.” 

“But—but I thought it would be Sharpclaw!” 

So did I, Firestar thought. Yet it was Leafdapple 
who had shown the greater sensitivity to everything 
that the warrior code meant. She had rallied the Clan 
in the battle with the rats, and she had understood why 
Hutch wanted to leave the Clan to be a kittypet again. 

Leafdapple took a step back, shaking her head 
emphatically. “Oh, no, Firestar. I can’t do this. Really, I 
can’t.” 

“T never felt good enough to be Clan leader, either,” 
Firestar confessed. “I was Clan deputy, so of course 
I’d thought about being leader one day, but when 
Bluestar died and I had to take her place, I didn’t feel 
that I was ready. But my Clan needed me. And now 
SkyClan needs you.” 


Leafdapple seemed to weigh what he was telling 
her. Then she turned to Echosong. “What do you 
think?” 

Echosong nodded encouragingly. “Our warrior 
ancestors sent me a vision. I know this is right for you, 
Leafdapple.” 

“But I don’t understand about our warrior 
ancestors,” Leafdapple protested. “I don’t even know 
that they exist. And even if they do”—she forestalled 
Echosong’s protest—‘why would they choose me? 
I’m nothing special.” 

“I don’t think you know how special you are,” 
Firestar told her. “Believe me, Leafdapple, you can do 
this.” 

Leafdapple’s amber gaze rested on him for several 
heartbeats. Then she bowed her head. “What do I 
have to do?” she asked. “Do I have to call myself 
Leafstar now? And do I have nine lives?” 

“You're not a leader yet,” Firestar warned her. 
“StarClan will give you your nine lives and your 
name.” 

“When? How?” Leafdapple looked around as if she 
expected to see starry warriors stalking up to her in the 


full light of day. 

“Tonight,” Firestar meowed. “Your warrior 
ancestors are watching over you, and we’ll meet with 
them tonight.” 


Under the frosty light of a half-moon, Firestar led 
the way up the trail to the Skyrock. Leafdapple padded 
behind him, and Echosong brought up the rear. 

Firestar wasn’t sure that he was doing the right 
thing. He had no doubts about Leafdapple as the 
destined leader of SkyClan—Echosong’s vision 
seemed too clear for that—but he wondered if he 
should have taken Leafdapple to the Whispering Cave 
for her ceremony. That was the nearest the SkyClan 
cats had to the Moonstone, where the leaders of the 
forest Clans received their nine lives and their name. 
Yet tonight the stars seemed particularly bright, and as 
he looked up they seemed to shift for a moment into 
the shape of the SkyClan leader’s face, as if he were 
saying, “Come.” 

Firestar leaped the cleft and paced into the middle of 
the Skyrock. Starlight glinted on its surface and the 


wind buffeted his fur. Leafdapple bent her head into it 
as she padded across to join him. 

“What happens now?” she asked. 

“We wait,” Firestar replied. “Your warrior ancestors 
will come to us.” 

He hoped he was right. He knew of only the 
SkyClan ancestor who walked these skies, along with 
Skywatcher. But Leafdapple needed nine cats who 
would each give her a life. He remembered the pain 
and terror and wonder of his own leadership ceremony, 
when the clearing at Fourtrees had been lined with 
starry spirits. Even if they came to her, would 
Leafdapple have enough strength to cope? There was 
only one way to find out. 

“Are you sure they’ll come? Shouldn’t we tell them 
we’re here?” Echosong’s voice was eager, her silver 
tabby fur fluffed up with excitement. 

“They’ll know,” Firestar replied. “Lie down by me,” 
he directed Leafdapple, settling himself on the rock 
with his paws tucked under his chest. 

Hesitantly Leafdapple obeyed him; Firestar could 
feel a suppressed quivering running all through her 
body. Echosong crouched on her other side, pressing 


reassuringly against her fur. 

“Don’t be afraid,’ the medicine cat whispered. “T 
know that our warrior ancestors mean you nothing but 
good.” 

Leafdapple still looked unsettled. 

“You must trust your warrior ancestors,” Firestar 
told her. 

Leafdapple turned her head and gazed at him with 
eyes that glowed silver in the moonlight. “No,” she 
meowed. “1 trust you.” 


CHAPTER 35 


The three cats waited silently in the wash of 
moonlight. Wind swept over the surface of the 
Skyrock, pressing their fur close to their pelts. “Close 
your eyes,” Firestar whispered. 

At first there was only darkness, and he was 
conscious of Leafdapple shifting restlessly by his side. 
Gradually she grew still; Firestar’s heartbeat quickened 
as he felt cold creeping over her, until she might have 
been a cat made of ice. The sound of the wind died 
away. 

Firestar opened his eyes. The Skyrock had 
vanished; instead, bleak moorland stretched around 
him, fading into the mist on all sides. No stars could 
penetrate the cloud, but it shimmered with a pale glow, 
as if somewhere overhead the moon still shone. 

On the other side of Leafdapple, Echosong blinked 
and raised her head, then rose and arched her back in 
a stretch. Her gaze, full of wonder, met Firestar’s. 
“Where are we? It’s like the place I dreamed of the 
night I slept on the Skyrock.” 


“This is the moor where I saw the fleeing SkyClan 
cats.” Firestar stood up, working his claws into the 
tough grass. 

Echosong turned to look down at Leafdapple, laying 
one paw gently on her shoulder. The she-cat didn’t 
move. 

“She feels so cold,’ Echosong whispered. Bending 
down, she breathed softly into Leafdapple’s ear; it 
didn’t even twitch. ‘Firestar, she’s not dead, is she?” 

“No,” Firestar reassured her. “Something like this 
happened to me. I think her old life is being stripped 
away so that she can receive her nine new ones.” 

Echosong still looked worried. Firestar guessed that 
her paws were itching to help Leafdapple, but there 
was nothing she could do. 

It might have been seasons or only heartbeats 
before Leafdapple sneezed and opened her eyes. Her 
Jaws stretched wide in a huge yawn. Then she seemed 
to become aware of her strange surroundings; she 
sprang to her paws, staggering a little. 

“Firestar, what’s happening?” 

“Its okay.” Firestar rested his tail tip on her 
shoulder. “This is where you will meet with StarClan.” 


As if his words were a signal, the mists swirled in 
front of him, and the gray-and-white SkyClan ancestor 
stepped into view. Droplets of water glittered like stars 
on his fur. “Greetings,” he meowed. “I know why you 
have come.” 

“Greetings,” Echosong replied, her eyes brilliant as 
she stood face-to-face with a StarClan warrior for the 
first time. 

Firestar padded forward to meet him. “I’m glad to 
see you again,” he meowed. “I’ve brought Leafdapple. 
She is the cat you wanted, isn’t she?” 

“Yes.” The former SkyClan leader dipped his head. 
“Thank you, Firestar. You have done all you can to 
rebuild and protect SkyClan once more. Now it’s up to 
the new SkyClan cats.” 

Firestar took a deep breath. “But how can 
Leafdapple receive nine lives if you’re the only cat 
here?” 

The gray-and-white cat raised his tail commandingly, 
and Firestar fell silent. He watched the SkyClan 
ancestor step lightly over the moorland grass to face 
Leafdapple. 

“Do you believe in what is about to happen?” he 


asked her. 

Leafdapple’s panic-stricken gaze flew to Firestar 
and back to the StarClan cat. “I...I think so,” she 
stammered. “At least, Firestar says you’re going to 
give me nine lives, and I believe him.” 

A flicker of sadness passed across the pale 
warrior’s face. “That will have to be enough,” he 
mewed. “Come, and I will give you your first life.” 

Leafdapple took a step forward so that she stood 
right in front of the SkyClan ancestor. He bowed his 
head and touched his nose to hers. Leafdapple 
stiffened and flinched away, then deliberately moved 
back so that the SkyClan cat could touch her again. 

“T give you a life for endurance,” he meowed. “Use 
it well to strengthen your Clan in times of trouble.” 

As the SkyClan ancestor finished speaking, Firestar 
saw all Leafdapple’s limbs spasm, and her jaws gaped 
in a soundless wail of agony. His belly clenched in 
sympathy; he remembered the terrible pain he had felt 
when he received his own lives. 

“Does it hurt?” Echosong whispered, her eyes wide 
with shock. “Can’t we help her?” 

Firestar shook his head. “This is for Leafdapple to 


bear alone.” 

Leafdapple trembled as the pain ebbed away, but 
she stayed on her paws. “Firestar’—she gasped—“do 
I have to do that eight more times?” 

“It’s okay,” Firestar comforted her. “Not all the lives 
will feel the same.” 

The she-cat had a dazed look in her eyes, and a 
touch of resentment in her voice as she mewed, “You 
never said it would be like this.” She shook her head in 
mingled astonishment and wonder. Firestar guessed 
that no cat could go through what she had just endured 
and still doubt that the experience was real. “I wish we 
could just get it over with.” 

“It won’t be long,” Firestar promised. 

“Look!” Echosong exclaimed, whirling around. 
“Leafdapple, can you see?” 

“I-I think so,” the tabby she-cat mewed. 

A row of cats was appearing faintly through the 
mist. They encircled the three living cats and the 
SkyClan ancestor, their outlines indistinct in the drifting 
clouds. Then one of them strode forward: Skywatcher. 
Not the scrawny elder who had died in the gorge, but 
as Firestar had last seen him in his dream, a strong and 


powerful warrior. 

Leafdapple’s eyes stretched wide. “Skywatcher,” 
she whispered. “Is that you?” 

Skywatcher touched noses with her. “Welcome, 
Leafdapple. I give you a life for hope,” he meowed. 
“Use it well to guide your Clan through the darkest 
days.” 

Once more Leafdapple tensed as the life surged 
through her. Firestar could see that the pain was not so 
great this time, or perhaps she knew what to expect 
and had braced herself against it. She recovered more 
quickly, dipping her head to Skywatcher. “Thank you,” 
she murmured. “Thank you for all you have done for 
my Clan.” 

Skywatcher stepped back noiselessly to stand with 
the ranks of misty warriors. 

Leafdapple gazed with expectation at the circle of 
cats whose shapes were gradually becoming more 
distinct. “I’m ready,” she mewed. 

The third cat to appear was a tabby she-cat so like 
Leafdapple that Firestar could hardly tell them apart. 
She bounded forward and touched noses with 
Leafdapple: a gesture of pure affection, not the giving 


of a life. 

“My mother!” Leafdapple exclaimed. “But you 
died...I thought I’d never see you again.” 

“Nothing is lost forever, dear one,’ her mother 
replied. Once again she touched noses with her 
daughter. “With this life I give you love. Use it well for 
all the cats who look to you for protection.” 

Leafdapple had stretched forward eagerly to 
receive this life, and Firestar could see she was 
unprepared for the piercing agony that came with it. 
Her limbs went rigid and she dug her claws into the 
ground, clenching her teeth on a screech of pain. He 
had experienced the same anguish when Brindleface 
had given him a life; he had not realized how fierce 
was a mother’s love for her kits, how willing a she-cat 
was to die to protect her children. 

As Leafdapple’s pain ebbed, her mother covered 
her face and ears with loving licks. 

“Don’t go,” Leafdapple whispered. 

‘Don’t be afraid, dear one,’ her mother reassured 
her. “I will walk with you many times in dreams, I 
promise.” 

As she stepped back, a fourth cat was already 


walking forward. Firestar caught his breath at a 
familiar scent, but one he had never expected to smell 
here. The shape of the cat’s head reminded him of the 
SkyClan ancestor. Then as she emerged fully from the 
mist he recognized the slender tortoiseshell. 

“Spottedleaf!” 

She bounded forward and touched noses with him. 
“Thank you, Firestar,” she mewed. “I’m so proud of 
you! SkyClan owes everything to you. I never told you 
how much it means to me to see the Clan restored.” 

Firestar breathed in her sweet scent. “I couldn’t 
have done it without you, Spottedleaf.” 

The medicine cat dipped her head to him. “I have 
been given the privilege to walk these skies to give 
Leafdapple her fourth life.” Approaching the tabby 
she-cat, she went on. “I give you a life for healing 
wounds caused by words and rivalry. Use it well for all 
cats troubled in spirit.” 

This time Firestar could see that there was no pain 
as the life flowed into Leafdapple. The she-cat let out 
a blissful purr, her eyes narrowed; for a few heartbeats 
she looked like a kit in the nursery, safe inside the 
curve of her mother’s paws and belly. 


“Thank you, Spottedleaf,;’ she mewed when it was 
over. “Firestar has told me so much about you. I’m 
honored to meet you at last.” 

The medicine cat brushed her tail softly along 
Leafdapple’s pelt, then withdrew once more to the 
edge of the circle. 

Firestar could see that the mist was growing thinner. 
More of the moorland was opening up, and the 
moonlight grew stronger, though the moon itself 
remained hidden. More and more cats were revealed, 
stretching into the distance. A shiver ran through 
Firestar, as if his paws splashed into icy water. 

As if she felt it too, Echosong pressed against him 
for a moment. “They’re coming home,” she 
whispered. “All the ancestors of SkyClan. I can hear 
them.” 

Before Firestar could reply, the cats in the front rank 
parted to allow four new cats into the center of the 
circle. He gazed at them, puzzled. They looked vaguely 
familiar, yet they didn’t remind him of SkyClan. They 
looked nothing like any of the other cats who had given 
lives. They walked with head and tail high, with all the 
authority of leaders, yet he had never seen them 


before, and didn’t understand why they should come 
now to give a life to Leafdapple. 

Instead of approaching the she-cat, the newcomers 
padded over to the SkyClan ancestor, who was staring 
at them with wide eyes. As the first cat, a muscular 
bracken-colored tom, drew closer, he gasped. 
“Redstar!” 

To Firestar’s astonishment, the bracken-colored cat 
stood in front of the SkyClan ancestor with his head 
bowed. “I was wrong all those moons ago,’ he 
meowed. “All of ThunderClan joins with me to tell you 
we’re sorry for what we did.” 

Firestar stared: this cat must have been the 
ThunderClan leader when SkyClan was driven out of 
the forest. 

The next cat, a brown tabby she-cat, crouched 
beside Redstar. She reminded Firestar of the 
RiverClan warrior Heavystep, and she had the look of 
Clovertail too. 

“Birchstar?” The SkyClan ancestor’s voice was 
guarded. 

“RiverClan says the same. We should never have 
driven you out. I felt compassion for you, but I did 


nothing—and that makes my actions worse. I am 
sorry.” 

The third cat, an older tom with a gray-black pelt 
and a long, twitching tail, remained on his paws, but he 
bowed his head as he meowed, “I am Swiftstar of 
WindClan, and when I walked the forest I never told 
any cat I was sorry. But I say it to you now: what we 
did was wrong.” 

The fourth cat’s creamy brown fur glimmered in the 
moonlight as she slipped up beside Swiftstar and fixed 
briliant green eyes on the SkyClan leader. 
“ShadowClan is sorry too,” she mewed. “We had good 
reasons for what we did, but I regret that we caused 
so much suffering to you and your Clanmates.” 

“Thank you, Dawnstar,” the SkyClan cat replied. 
“Thank you, all of you.” 

“Nothing can make up for what we did,’ Redstar 
went on. “But we have each come here to give a life 
to the new leader of SkyClan, if we may.” 

The gray-and-white cat dipped his head, giving his 
permission. 

Redstar stepped forward to touch noses with 
Leafdapple. “With this life I give you wisdom. Use it 


well when you have the hardest decisions of all to 
make.” 

Leafdapple quivered as the fifth life flowed into her. 
Firestar remembered how he had felt as the number of 
his lives mounted up: as though he were a hollowed-out 
rock, filling up with ramwater that soon would spill over 
the edges and be lost. 

The next cat to approach Leafdapple was Birchstar, 
the RiverClan leader. “I give you a life for sympathy 
and understanding,” she murmured. “Use it well for 
the weakest in your Clan, and for all others who need 
your help and protection.” 

Swiftstar hardly gave Leafdapple time to receive 
that life before he strode up and touched noses with 
her. “I give you a life for selflessness,” the former 
WindClan leader announced. “Use it well in the service 
of your Clan.” 

Last of the four came Dawnstar; Firestar gazed at 
her, astonished that such a graceful she-cat should be 
leader of ShadowClan, who always seemed to be at 
the bottom of trouble in the forest. But then, perhaps 
the ShadowClan of those days had been different— 
and perhaps they could change again. 


“I give you a life for determination,’ she meowed, 
stretching her head forward to touch her nose 
delicately to Leafdapple’s. “Use it well to set your 
paws on the path of what you know to be right.” 

Leafdapple’s legs shook as she received the eighth 
life. She was breathing hard and fast, as if she had 
been running. Firestar could see that the effort had 
drained her strength until she was almost too 
exhausted to stand on her paws. 

When the life had entered into her she gazed at the 
four rival Clan leaders. “Thank you,’ she meowed. 
“The new SkyClan will hold your Clans in honor. The 
fifth Clan has returned.” 

The four leaders bowed their heads in reply. Then to 
Firestar’s amazement they turned away from 
Leafdapple and padded up to him. 

“You righted the wrong we did,” Redstar meowed. 
“For that we thank you.” 

“We thought we had to drive SkyClan away for the 
sake of our own Clans,” Dawnstar added. “But that 
was a mistake.” 

Swiftstar twitched his ears. “We’ve paid for it. 
None of us could rest easily after SkyClan was gone. 


Guilt clawed us for the rest of our lives.” 

“There should always have been five Clans in the 
forest,’ Birchstar mewed. 

Firestar struggled to find words to reply. When he 
had first learned of the pain and loss of the SkyClan 
ancestor, he had blamed the leaders of the other Clans 
for what they had done. But perhaps they were just 
leaders like himself, doing their best to make the right 
decisions for their Clan. “I will never forget you,” he 
murmured. 

Redstar remained in front of Firestar as the other 
leaders turned away. “Your Clanmates are safe and 
waiting for you,” he meowed. “Your work here is over. 
You can go home now.” 

The four Clan leaders stepped back to the edge of 
the circle to stand close to Skywatcher, Spottedleaf, 
and Leafdapple’s mother. The SkyClan ancestor joined 
them, and all eight starry cats seemed to grow tense 
and prick their ears, as if they were waiting. No other 
cat appeared through the mist. 

Firestar’s belly clenched. Where was the ninth cat 
to give Leafdapple her last life? 

A breeze had risen, tearing the mists into ragged 


strands. The cats shone out more clearly, with 
glimmering eyes and pelts dusted with starshine. 
Beyond them Firestar caught glimpses of a vast 
expanse of moorland stretching into darkness. Above 
his head the moon shone fitfully, and stars glittered 
here and there before the mist drifted over them again. 
Every hair on his pelt rose. 

Beside him, Echosong murmured, “Oh, come— 
come quickly!” 

Then Firestar saw the cats parting to leave a 
straight path leading far over the moor. At the end of it 
he could see a single point of light; at first he thought it 
was a star low on the horizon. It steadily drew closer, 
and now Firestar could see that it was a cat, racing 
along with its belly fur brushing the rough moorland 
grass. Stars streamed from its fur and sparkled at its 
paws, and its eyes were a blaze of starlight. 

The SkyClan ancestor took a single pace forward, 
his eyes fixed on the approaching cat with a hunger 
that spoke of moons of starvation. 

The shining cat reached the circle, and Firestar saw 
her clearly for the first time: a beautiful long-furred 
brown tabby with green eyes fixed intently on the 


SkyClan ancestor. She padded up to him and lightly 
touched her nose to his. 

“Birdflight!”” whispered the SkyClan leader. 

“Cloudstar,” she purred, twining her tail with his. “I 
told you I would find you one day.” 

“And I told you I would wait,’ Cloudstar replied. He 
closed his eyes. “I can’t believe you’re here!” 

“T will always be here,” Birdflight murmured. “We 
will walk the skies together forever.” 

For a heartbeat that seemed to stretch into seasons 
the two cats stood close together, drinking in each 
other’s scent. Then Birdflight drew back a pace and 
beckoned with her tail to two other cats who had 
approached unseen. They padded into the circle and 
dipped their heads to Cloudstar. 

“These are your children,” Birdflight explained. 
“Though they were too small to make the journey with 
SkyClan, and grew up in ThunderClan instead, 
Spottedpelt and Gorseclaw have chosen to walk these 
skies with me in honor of their SkyClan ancestors.” 

Firestar stared in astonishment. Spottedpelt was a 
slender tortoiseshell, as like Spottedleaf as if the two 
cats had been littermates. Gorseclaw was a broad- 


shouldered tabby tom with glowing amber eyes; 
Firestar’s belly churned at his likeness to his old 
enemy, Tigerstar. Birdflight had said that the two cats 
had grown up in Firestar’s own Clan. Did that mean 
that SkyClan’s blood ran in ThunderClan? Were 
Spottedleaf and Tigerstar both descended from 
Cloudstar? 

He caught Spottedleaf’s eye and saw her gazing 
delightedly at the cats in the center of the circle. It 
must be true! No wonder he had been reminded of the 
SkyClan leader when she appeared. No wonder she 
had felt so involved in the destiny of the new Clan. 

Cloudstar took a single pace toward his children, his 
legs stiff with shock. “When I left the forest,’ he 
mewed hoarsely, “I vowed my Clan would never look 
to the stars again. Some of my warriors still followed 
the old ways, but as time went on and SkyClan was 
scattered, StarClan was forgotten, and our warrior 
ancestors were unable to walk these skies. Until now.” 
His brilliant gaze traveled from Birdflight and his 
children until it rested on Firestar and Leafdapple. 
“Until now.” 

Birdflight paced across the circle to where 


Leafdapple still waited, her eyes filled with wonder, 
and touched noses with her. 

“With this life I give you faithfulness,” she mewed. 
“Use it well to hold fast to Clan and kin.” 

As the ninth life surged into Leafdapple, one more 
cat appeared from the starry ranks, a small tabby with 
a white front and paws. She padded across the circle 
until she stood face-to-face with Echosong. 

“My name is Fawnstep,” she announced. “I was 
SkyClan’s medicine cat when they fled from the 
forest. You have my cave in the gorge, and you find 
herbs in the same places that I once did. Your warrior 
ancestors have chosen you to be SkyClan’s medicine 
cat from this moment on.” 

“Thank you,” Echosong whispered. “J—” 

Fawnstep silenced her by laying the tip of her tail 
gently over Echosong’s mouth. “Peace, dear friend. 
From now on I will walk in your dreams and watch 
over you until you have learned how to be a true 
medicine cat.” Her eyes sparkled. “We shall travel far 
together, you and I.” 

Echosong raised her head and looked deep into her 
fellow medicine cat’s eyes. “PI be ready for our next 


meeting,” she promised. 

Leafdapple stood in the middle of the circle, a little 
unsteady on her legs, and looked around. “What 
happens now?” she asked Firestar in a hoarse whisper. 

Firestar had no need to answer. While the new Clan 
leader was speaking, the last shreds of mist dissolved, 
revealing a sky where a full moon floated serenely. 
Stars blazed out as SkyClan’s warrior ancestors 
returned to watch over their descendants who had 
been lost for so long. 

His pelt prickled with recognition as he spotted a 
strong gray warrior among them, with stars in his fur 
and the shimmer of starlight in his eyes. Rainfur’s gaze 
met his and he dipped his head. 

His belly churning with grief and guilt, Firestar 
padded over to him. “I’m sorry, Rainfur,’ he 
murmured. “If you hadn’t jomed SkyClan, you would 
still be alive.” 

“It was my decision.” Rainfur gazed at him with 
clear eyes. “Now I’ll always be part of a Clan, and 
have a place among the stars. The warrior code is 
worth dying for.” He hesitated briefly and then added, 
“How are Petalnose and the kits?” 


“They grieve for you,” Firestar replied. “But they’ ll 
always have the support of their Clan.” 

“I know. I trust SkyClan to look after them.” 
Rainfur dipped his head again, and Firestar felt as 
though he had been forgiven. 

The ranks of cats rose to their paws and sprang up 
into the sky, setting each star to shine more brightly. 
Their voices mounted high and tingling to the glittering 
swathe of Silverpelt. “Leafstar! Leafstar!” 

“Leafstar!” Firestar and Echosong joined in to 
welcome the new leader of SkyClan. “Leafstar!” 

The light around him grew so dazzling that Firestar 
had to squeeze his eyes shut. The voices died away, 
and when he opened his eyes he was crouching on the 
surface of the Skyrock, with Leafstar and Echosong 
beside him. The half-moon still shone in a frosty sky. 

Leafstar rose to her paws, staggered to find her 
balance, and let out a long breath. “Thank you, 
Firestar,’ she meowed. “I never imagined...” She 
blinked rapidly, while Echosong brushed her pelt 
against her flank and pressed her muzzle into the new 
leader’s shoulder. 

“You know you mustn’t speak of this to any cat?” 


Firestar warned her. 

Leafstar stared at him. “How could I? There are no 
words....” Shaking her head, she went on. “I 
understand now. And I promise that I'll be a strong 
and loyal leader to my Clan, until it’s my turn to walk 
among the stars with my ancestors.” 

She paused for a moment, then gave her pelt a 
shake. “Let’s go down. My Clan will be waiting for 


23 


me. 


CHAPTER 36 


“Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey join 
here beneath the Rockpile for a Clan meeting!” 

Leafstar’s voice rang out over the camp as she 
summoned her Clanmates for the first time. Her body 
was outlined against a pale blue sky; the day after her 
leadership ceremony had dawned clear and cold, but 
now the sun was taking the chill off the rocks and 
sparkling on the surface of the river. Leafstar waited 
patiently as her Clan gathered around the foot of the 
Rockpile. 

Firestar had discussed this meeting with her, making 
sure that she knew what she had to do, but she hadn’t 
told him all the decisions she would make. Whatever 
they were, he hoped she would have the support of her 
Clan. 

By now they all knew that Leafstar was their new 
leader; Firestar could see excitement in their pricked 
ears and shining eyes. Clovertail’s kits were bouncing 
all over the place, getting under every cat’s paws, until 
Bouncekit slipped on a damp stone; Sharpclaw 


grabbed him by the scruff just in time to save him from 
a dunking in the river. 

“Now stay with your mother,’ the ginger tom 
mewed sternly. “Is that any way for an apprentice to 
behave?” 

Instantly all three kits lined up at Clovertail’s side, 
sitting up straight while their mother gave them a quick 
grooming. Petalnose and her two kits came to join 
them; Sagekit and Mintkit eyed the older litter 
enviously. 

“We want to be apprentices,” Mintkit mewed to his 
mother. 

“Yes, why can’t we?” Sagekit asked. 

“You’re not old enough,” Rockkit retorted in such 
lofty tones that Firestar exchanged a glance with 
Sandstorm, sitting beside him, and saw amusement 
glimmering in her green eyes. “You'll have to wait for 
moons before that happens.” 

Cherrypaw and Sparrowpaw emerged from their 
den and padded down the trail to sit together near the 
fresh-kill pile. Patchfoot joined them, and last of all 
Echosong appeared from the Whispering Cave, leaped 
lightly across the Rockpile behind Leafstar, and came 


to sit with Firestar. 

“Cats of SkyClan,” Leafstar began when every cat 
was settled and gazing expectantly up at her, “my first 
duty as leader is to appoint a deputy.” She took a deep 
breath. “I speak these words before the spirits of my 
ancestors, that they may hear and approve my choice. 
Sharpclaw will be the new deputy of SkyClan.” 

Firestar saw a look of pride spread over the ginger 
tom’s face, along with a touch of uncertainty that was 
quite unlike him. The warrior rose to his paws, dipping 
his head to Leafstar. “Thank you,” he meowed. “I shall 
be honored to serve you and our Clan.” 

Firestar flashed another glance at Sandstorm, feeling 
very relieved. Sharpclaw had pushed hard for the post 
of leader when he hadn’t completely understood the 
full meaning of the warrior code. He could have made 
Leafstar’s life difficult if he had refused to accept her 
authority. But his fiery courage and fighting skills 
would balance well with Leafstar’s more thoughtful 
personality. And one day, when he had lived enough 
moons by the warrior code, he would make a good 
leader. 

“Echosong.” Leafstar beckoned with her tail, and 


the tabby she-cat rose from her place beside Firestar 
and padded forward to stand at the foot of the 
Rockpile. “Our warrior ancestors have chosen you to 
be our medicine cat. Now I give the care of SkyClan 
into your keeping. We trust you to use your skills for 
healing and to interpret the signs that the spirits of our 
ancestors will send us.” 

A secret look passed between the two she-cats. 
Firestar guessed they were remembering their 
extraordinary experiences of the night before. 

Echosong bowed her head. “I promise PI do my 
best, Leafstar.” 

“Echosong! Echosong!” The Clan welcomed her by 
yowling her name; the young medicine cat ducked her 
head in embarrassment and went back to sit by 
Firestar. 

“My next task is one of the most important that a 
leader can perform,” Leafstar went on. “The making 
of new warriors.” She beckoned Cherrypaw and 
Sparrowpaw with her tail; the two young cats rose and 
came to stand side by side at the bottom of the 
Rockpile, their eyes shining. “Sharpclaw,” Leafstar 
asked, “has your apprentice Cherrypaw learned the 


skills of a warrior? And does she understand what the 
warrior code means to every cat?” 

“She has and she does,’ Sharpclaw replied 
solemnly. “She fought like a seasoned warrior against 
the rats.” 

“And I can say the same for my apprentice, 
Sparrowpaw,” Leafstar meowed. She leaped down 
from the Rockpile and stood in front of the two young 
cats. “I, Leafstar, leader of SkyClan, call upon my 
warrior ancestors to look down on these two 
apprentices. They have trained hard to understand the 
ways of your noble code, and I commend them to you 
as warriors in their turn.” 

A shiver ran through Firestar as he heard the 
familiar words. Not until today could a SkyClan cat 
have spoken them with certainty, for no cat knew what 
had happened to their warrior ancestors. But now he 
knew—and more important, Leafstar knew—that they 
walked the skies where they belonged, and would do 
so for all the seasons to come. 

Leafstar went on. “Cherrypaw, Sparrowpaw, do you 
promise to uphold the warrior code and to protect and 
defend this Clan, even at the cost of your lives?” 


Cherrypaw’s fur bristled and she flexed her claws 
as she replied, “I do.” 

Sparrowpaw looked calmer, but no cat could doubt 
the sincerity in his voice as he also promised, “I do.” 

“Then by the powers of StarClan I give you your 
warrior names. Cherrypaw, from this moment you will 
be known as Cherrytail. StarClan honors your bravery 
and your enthusiasm, and we welcome you as a full 
member of SkyClan.” Leafstar rested her muzzle on 
the top of Cherrytail’s head; Cherrytail licked her 
shoulder and moved away to join the other warriors. 

Leafstar turned to Sparrowpaw and repeated the 
same time-honored words. “Sparrowpaw, from this 
moment you will be known as Sparrowpelt. StarClan 
honors your courage and your strength, and we 
welcome you as a full member of SkyClan.” 

She rested her muzzle on his head, and he too bent 
respectfully to lick her shoulder. 

“Cherrytail! Sparrowpelt! Cherrytail! Sparrowpelt!” 
the rest of the Clan called to welcome the two new 
warriors. Cherrytail gave a massive, jubilant leap into 
the air. 

Next, Leafstar beckoned with her tail to Clovertail’s 


three kits. Trying not to wriggle with excitement, they 
padded up to their Clan leader. Clovertail watched 
them, looking ready to burst with pride. 

“Patchfoot, you have shown courage and 
endurance,” Leafstar meowed. “You will be mentor to 
Bouncepaw.” 

Bouncepaw let out a squeal, broke off almost at 
once, and pattered over to Patchfoot to touch noses 
with him. Patchfoot looked down at him, eyes glowing 
with pride at having been chosen as a mentor. 

“Cherrytail, you are a new warrior,’ Leafstar 
continued, “but the whole of SkyClan has seen your 
dedication. You will mentor Rockpaw.” 

The black apprentice bounced up and went to touch 
noses with his new mentor; Cherrytail looked thrilled. 

Leafstar looked down at the last of the three kits, 
who was hardly able to keep still. “Sparrowpelt, you 
are young too,” Leafstar mewed at last. “But you have 
excellent fighting and hunting skills. I trust you will 
pass them on to Tinypaw.” 

The white apprentice sprang up and, obviously trying 
to be more dignified than her brothers, padded up to 
Sparrowpelt and stretched up to touch noses with him. 


“For now,” Leafstar told them, “all warriors will 
work together to train the new apprentices. We are a 
new Clan, and we must learn to depend on one 
another. I have one more thing to do,’ she added. 
“Before Firestar and Sandstorm came to the gorge, we 
lived separate lives. We were rogues and kittypets. We 
knew nothing of the life of a Clan, or of the warrior 
code. Now we belong together and we support one 
another. Firestar, Sandstorm, we thank you for all you 
have done for us. Your names will be honored forever 
by the cats of SkyClan.” 

“Firestar! Sandstorm!” 

Firestar felt himself swelling with pride. He 
remembered his worries about leaving his Clan, and 
the dangers of the journey upriver. Every pang of 
anxiety, every weary pawstep were worth it now that 
he saw the strong bodies and shining eyes of the new 
Clan members. 

He felt Sandstorm’s muzzle brushing his ear as his 
mate murmured, “It’s time for us to leave. We’ve 
rebuilt SkyClan, just as we promised. Our own future 
is waiting for us in the forest.” 

Firestar knew she was right, but a pang clawed him 


at the thought of leaving these cats who had become 
his friends. They were unlikely to meet again until they 
walked with StarClan—and even then, would they 
share the same skies? 

He rose to his paws to meet Leafstar as she padded 
over to him. “Was that all right, Firestar?” she asked 
anxiously. “I was afraid I wouldn’t remember the 
proper words.” 

“Tt was perfect,” Firestar told her. “SkyClan is yours 
now. You don’t need us anymore.” 

A shadow of sadness crossed Leafstar’s face, but 
she didn’t try to persuade him to stay. “Your own Clan 
needs you,” she meowed. “But SkyClan will never 
forget you.” 

As the rest of SkyClan realized that Firestar and 
Sandstorm were about to leave, they gathered around, 
wishing them good-bye and good luck. 

“Remember the first time we met?” Cherrytail 
meowed. “You told us off for making fun of 
Skywatcher. I thought Id never seen such a 
dangerous cat!” Her eyes gleamed with mischief. 
“Now I’m dangerous, too!” 

Sandstorm gave her an affectionate nudge. “I 


wouldn’t be a rat around here for anything.” 

“Yes, you'll have to keep an eye open for the rats,” 
Firestar reminded Leafstar. “And the kittypets in 
Twolegplace—Oscar might take it into his head to 
cause trouble. And—” 

Sandstorm interrupted him by prodding him with one 
paw. “Leafstar knows all that,’ she meowed. “They’1] 
be fine. Let’s go.” 

Calling out more good-byes, Firestar and Sandstorm 
began to climb up the stony trails to the cliff top. 
Echosong walked with them as far as her own den. 
When she reached it, she touched noses with Firestar, 
her eyes filled with regret. “Maybe we will meet again 
in the paths of dreaming,” she mewed. “But my heart 
tells me that this is farewell. Thank you, Firestar. You 
have helped me find my destiny.” 

Firestar bowed his head. “SkyClan is lucky to have 
you as their medicine cat, Echosong.” 

It was hard to look back and see the small tabby 
figure standing outside her den, watching them leave. 
Was Echosong really ready to take on the role of a 
medicine cat? Would Sharpclaw understand how a 
deputy had to support his Clan leader? Would the 


inexperienced mentors be able to cope with their 
apprentices? 

Then as they paused at the edge of the cliff, Firestar 
caught sight of a SkyClan patrol among the 
undergrowth far below. Leafstar was in the lead, with 
Patchfoot and his apprentice, Bouncepaw, and 
Clovertail bringing up the rear. As Firestar watched, 
Clovertail pounced, and stood up with some tiny 
creature hanging from her jaws. 

“See?” Sandstorm purred as she licked Firestar’s 
ear. “There’s nothing to worry about. Let’s go home.” 

Firestar let out a long sigh. His quest was over; he 
had walked with SkyClan to their journey’s end—and a 
new beginning—and now he could go where his heart 
truly belonged. He pressed his muzzle against 
Sandstorm’s shoulder, and they began to head toward 
the forest. 


EPILOGUE 


Frost glittered on leafless branches as Firestar 
bounded down the ravine. He felt full of energy, 
completely recovered from the long journey back from 
SkyClan three moons before. Brambleclaw and 
Mousefur followed him: the dawn patrol was returning 
to the ThunderClan camp, cold and hungry, but with fur 
unruffled. The borders were peaceful, and leaf-bare 
would soon give way to the fresh growth of newleaf. 

Firestar pushed his way through the gorse tunnel 
and turned to wait for his Clanmates. “Better get 
something to eat, and then rest,’ he meowed. “I want 
you both to come with me to the Gathering tonight.” 

“Great!” Brambleclaw’s fur bristled with 
excitement, while Mousefur simply flicked her ears 
and headed for the fresh-kill pile. 

Firestar headed across the clearing toward the 
nursery, spotting Sorrelpaw, Sootpaw, and Rainpaw 
wrestling together beside the apprentice’s den among 
the ferns. While he watched, Thornclaw emerged from 
the warriors’ den and called to Sootpaw; mentor and 


apprentice disappeared through the gorse tunnel. 

As he approached the nursery Cinderpelt emerged; 
Firestar bounded up to her. “Is everything all right?” he 
demanded. 

Cinderpelt’s blue eyes — glimmered with 
understanding. “Everything’s fine, Firestar. I just took 
her some borage to help her milk come.” 

Firestar let out a long breath of relief. “I still can’t 
believe how beautiful they are,” he confessed. 

Cinderpelt gave his ear a gentle flick with her tail. 
“In you go, then, and have another look.” 

Firestar pushed his way through the brambles and 
into the nursery, the warm, milky scents flowing over 
him. Sandstorm lay in a deep nest of moss and 
bracken; huddled close to her belly were two tiny she- 
kits, their eyes still closed. One was tabby with a white 
chest and paws, the other a dark ginger like Firestar 
himself. 

Whitekit, Brightheart and Cloudtail’s daughter, was 
looking down at the two kits with as much pride as if 
they were her own. She was nearly old enough to be 
apprenticed, and Firestar knew how protective she felt 
about the new arrivals. 


Brightheart roused from her nest and stretched out a 
paw. “Be careful,” she warned her kit. “Don’t get too 
close. They won’t be ready to play for a while yet.” 

As Firestar entered, Sandstorm drowsily raised her 
head. “I thought of some names,’ she murmured. 
“How do you like Squirrelkit and Leafkit?” 

“I think they’re wonderful names,” Firestar replied. 
The dark ginger Squirrelkit for her fluffy tail, of course, 
and tabby Leafkit in memory of Leafstar—and 
perhaps of Spottedleaf too. 

Pride surged through him as he looked at the tiny 
scraps of fur. He had so many hopes for them: good 
hunting, happiness, perhaps even leadership of their 
Clan. Though he had been a kittypet, his daughters 
were Clanborn through and through. His blood would 
run through ThunderClan for many seasons to come, 
even when he no longer walked the forest. 

The thought of blood and kinship made 
Skywatcher’s prophecy echo in his ears once more: 
There will be three, kin of your kin, who hold the 
power of the stars in their paws. 

Would these powerful cats be descended from 
Firestar’s two precious daughters? Was the prophecy 


a warning of great good—or great evil? A chill ran 
through him, and he shivered as he wondered where 
the path of his blood would lead. 


Acknowledgments 


Special thanks to 
Cherith Baldry 


About the Author 


Erin Hunter is inspired by a love of cats and a 
fascination with the ferocity of the natural world. As 
well as having a great respect for nature in all its 
forms, Erin enjoys creating rich mythical explanations 
for animal behavior, shaped by her interest in astrology 
and standing stones. 


Visit §=www.AuthorTracker.com for exclusive 
information on your favorite HarperCollins authors. 


Also by Erin Hunter 


WARRIORS 


Book One: Into the Wild 
Book Two: Fire and Ice, 
Book Three: Forest of Secrets 
Book Four: Rising Storm 
Book Five: A Dangerous Path 
Book Six: The Darkest Hour 


WARRIORS: 
THE NEW PROPHECY 


Book One: Midnight 
Book Two: Moonrise 
Book Three: Dawn 
Book Four: Starlight 
Book Five: Twilight 
Book Six: Sunset 


WARRIORS: 
POWER OF THREE 


Book One: The Sight 
WARRIORS FIELD GUIDE: Secrets of the Clans 


WARRIORS (Manga): 
Book One: The Lost Warrior 


Credits 


Cover art © 2007 by Wayne McLoughlin 


Copyright 


WARRIORS SUPER EDITION: FIRESTAR’S QUEST. Copyright © 2007 
by Working Partners Limited. Series created by Working 
Partners Limited. All rights reserved under International and 
Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the 
required fees, you have been granted the nonexclusive, 
nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e- 
book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, 
transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, 
or stored in or introduced into any information storage and 
retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether 
electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented, 
without the express written permission of HarperCollins e- 
books. 


EPub Edition © JANUARY 2009 ISBN: 9780061973680 
Version 06212013 


10987654321 


“= HarperCollins e-books 


About the Publisher 


Australia 

HarperCollins Publishers (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 

Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 
http://www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 

HarperCollins Canada 

2 Bloor Street East - 20th Floor 
Toronto, ON, M4W, 1A8, Canada 
http://www.harpercollins.ca 


New Zealand 

HarperCollins Publishers (New Zealand) Limited 
P.O. Box 1 

Auckland, New Zealand 
http://www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
77-85 Fulham Palace Road 
London, W6 8JB, UK 
http://www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 

HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
10 East 53rd Street 

New York, NY 10022 
http://www.harpercollins.com 


