



PROLOGUE 


— Then — 


Gremlin peered cautiously from the shelter of a holly bush, 
letting her glance flick from side to side. All her senses were 
alert, but she could see nothing beyond the dense 
undergrowth, scent nothing except the lush smell of 
vegetation, and hear nothing but the rush of the nearby 
river. 

With a sigh, she stepped back into the hollow space of 
at the center of the bush. “No sign of him,” she reported. 
“Maybe our spies got it wrong.” 

Her companion, Snake, was crouched down with his 
black-and-white-furred shoulders hunched. He replied with a 
grunt. “Maybe.” 

He took her place, gazing out through the gap between 
the branches. Meanwhile, Gremlin began to groom her own 
patchy black, white, and tortoiseshell fur, grimacing at the 
taste of the chervil she and Snake had rolled in to disguise 
their scent. Her pads tingled with a mixture of excitement and 
apprehension at the thought of what could lie ahead—very 
soon now. 

Snake’s tail lashed once, snapping past Gremlin’s face 
and startling her so that she had to bite back a squeal of 


alarm. Snake spoke in a low growl. “He’s here.” 

Gremlin pressed up beside him so that she too could see 
through the gap. Two ginger cats—a tom with a flame- 
colored pelt and a she-cat with paler fur—were brushing 
through the undergrowth, less than two foxlengths away 
from the bush where Gremlin and Snake were hidden. 

“So the ginger fool is really going,” Snake sneered in a 
whisper. “What is he thinking? He’s leaving his Clan 
leaderless and undefended.” 

“Who is the cat with Firestar?” Gremlin asked, keeping 
her voice equally low. 

“His mate, Sandstorm,” Snake told her. “She’s not 
important, except that now she’s one less warrior for us to 
worry about.” 

Side by side, Gremlin and Snake watched until the two 
ThunderClan cats had disappeared, heading in the direction 
ofthe Twoleg bridge that crossed the river. When even their 
scent had faded, Snake turned to Gremlin, a malignant glint 
in his blue eyes. 

“At last!” he hissed. “This is BloodClan’s chance for 
revenge!” 

The aggressive note in his voice chilled Gremlin. Though 
Snake wore a collar, he was no soft kittypet; the narrow pelt- 
strip was studded with dogs’ teeth, and his torn ear told the 
stories of the many battles he had fought. His claws were 
flexing in and out, as if he were already imagining the 


moment when he would sink them into ThunderClan throats. 

“Come on,” he urged her. “We need to tell Fury.” 

He plunged out of the shelter of the holly bush and 
made off downstream toward the Twolegplace, choosing a 
route that would take him and Gremlin well clear of the 
ThunderClan camp. Gradually, he picked up the pace, and 
when Gremlin tried to keep up with him, she felt in her belly 
the weight of the kits she was carrying. 

This is a bad time for me to go to war, she sighed 
inwardly. Of course BloodClan still wants revenge on the 
Clans for killing our leader. But I wish we could wait a bit 
longer. What would happen to her kits ifshe had to fight? 


Gremlin and Snake slipped silently through the 
Twolegplace until they found Fury and the rest of BloodClan 
gathered on a stretch of ground beside a row of monster 
dens. Tall buildings on the other three sides cut off the 
sunlight; the ground lay in perpetual shadow, and the only 
things growing there were a few clumps of thin, wilting 
grass. 

Fury was sitting on top of a tumbled pile of reddish, 
squared-off stones like the ones Twolegs used to build their 
dens. A long-furred tabby with one eye slashed away, her 
pelt seamed with many scars, she was the latest in a line of 
cats who had taken control of BloodClan since Scourge had 
been killed in the battle with the warriors. Gremlin could well 
believe that she was even more dangerous than the savage 


black tom, who had almost succeeded in making himself 
leader of every cat in the forest. But a moon or so before, 
when Fury and the previous leader, Claw, had gone to the 
Twolegplace to search for food, only Fury had returned, her 
paws still wet with blood. She’d told the rest of BloodClan 
that Claw had gotten on “the wrong side of a dog,” but 
Gremlin doubted that was the whole story. 

Fury’s one remaining eye widened and her tail twitched 
with anticipation as Gremlin and Snake approached. “Well?” 
she rasped. “Report.” 

The other BloodClan cats clustered around them eagerly, 
their eyes gleaming with anticipation as Snake recounted 
how he and Gremlin had seen Firestar and Sandstorm on 
their way out of ThunderClan’s territory. 

“So ThunderClan is vulnerable,’ Fury meowed when 
Snake had finished. Her voice shook with excitement and her 
shoulder fur began to rise. “We must choose the right time 
to strike—but believe me, strike we will!” 

Her BloodClan warriors broke out in yowls of 
acclamation at their leader’s words. 

“Yes! We’ll take their territory!” a skinny yellow tom 
screeched. 

“We’ll drive them out!” 

“We’ll take the rest of the forest, too!” 

Gremlin listened in silence, feeling unease settle deep 
into her chest. Her gaze fell on her brother, Scraps, in a 


huddle with some of the younger BloodClan cats, his eyes 
blazing with fervor. 

“We’ll have our revenge!” he growled. “We’ll shred 
those ThunderClan cats! They will pay for what they did to 
BloodClan!” 

Gremlin couldn’t share her brother’s enthusiasm. She 
found it too hard to believe that they could easily take 
ThunderClan, even with its leader gone. The warriors were 
well trained, and they outnumbered the remaining BloodClan 
cats, since BloodClan had been thinned out by the battle the 
previous leafbare. 

Movement in her belly reminded her of the precious 
burden she was carrying. I wont let anything happen to my 
unborn kits, she mused. That means I have to find a way 
out of participating in this battle. I wish I believed we 
might win, but the truth is... 

This fight could be a bloodbath. 


CHAPTER 1 


Se 


— Now — 


The sun was going down, casting long shadows over the 
stone hollow. Graystripe sat in one of the remaining sunny 
spots, his paws tucked underneath him as he watched his 
Clanmates coming and going across the camp. His heart was 
filled with sadness. Everything seemed peaceful as the day 
drew to an end, but Graystripe was aware of tension 
stretching like cobwebs among all the cats of ThunderClan. 

I’m sure I'm not the only cat who feels the camp is too 
empty, he thought. So many good warriors had been lost in 
the battle with the false Bramblestar. And Squirrelflight was 
doing her best as leader, but the situation the Clan faced 
now was far from easy. 

None of their Clanmates seemed to know what to do—as 
if they were too distracted to keep up the smooth routine of 
hunting and patrols. Even Alderheart, the young medicine 
cat, had just emerged from his den and strode purposefully 
into the middle of the camp, only to halt abruptly with an 
irritated twitch of his tail; he bounded back to his den and 
reemerged a moment later with a leaf wrap of herbs in his 
jaws. 

Its not like Alderheart to forget what hes supposed to 


be doing. 

Glancing aside, Graystripe saw only the empty space 
where his mate Millie should have been sitting. But Millie 
was dead, and for moons Graystripe had been suffering the 
quiet heartbreak of her loss. Now Stemleaf, the son of his 
daughter Blossomfall, had been killed, too. 

That feels even harder than Millies death, Graystripe 
thought sorrowfully. At least with Millie, Ihad halfa moon, 
as she sickened and grew weaker, to come to terms with the 
idea that she would soon be gone, and that I would have to 
get used to being without her. With Millie, he could at least 
comfort himself with the knowledge that she had lived a long 
and full life. But Stemleaf had been so young, and had died 
so sudden!y.... 

In leafbare, StarClan had suddenly stopped 
communicating with the Clans. It was the first time in 
Graystripe’s life that he could remember StarClan going so 
long without sending a single message. At first, the Clan 
cats had guessed that the frozen Moonpool was preventing 
StarClan from communicating with them, but when newleaf 
came and the Moonpoolthawed, stillno visions came. In the 
meantime, a ShadowClan medicine-cat apprentice named 
Shadowpaw had claimed that StarClan had sent him an 
unusual vision, saying that there was a darkness in the 
Clans, and naming certain cats who had broken the warrior 
code. Then, when Bramblestar suffered a terrible illness, 


Shadowpaw told ThunderClan’s medicine cats to leave 
Bramblestar on the frozen moor overnight. Shadowpaw 
claimed this was the advice of StarClan again—and indeed 
Bramblestar died, but returned to life one sunup later, 
stronger than ever. 

ThunderClan had believed that Bramblestar had just 
taken an unusually long time returning to the next of the 
nine lives StarClan had given him. But when Bramblestar’s 
behavior became stranger and more cruel—as he insisted on 
exiling the named codebreakers, and even began naming 
new cats he believed deserved punishment for breaking the 
code—ThunderClan eventually realized that he was an 
impostor. Stemleaf had given his life trying to defeat the 
false Bramblestar, and though Graystripe wished with all his 
heart that the young warrior were still alive, he was proud of 
him. At least Stemleaf had tried, had died fighting for his 
Clanmates. 

Guilt clawed briefly at Graystripe. He wished he had 
done more himself to face down the impostor. Even though 
he had given the false Bramblestar a piece of his mind, 
telling him that not even Firestar had demanded blind 
loyalty, he had never joined the rebels who had been hiding 
out on ShadowClan’s territory, nor taken part in the battle to 
defeat the intruder. 

But I’m not the young cat I used to be, he reflected. Not 
like when Firestar and I would get into all sorts of 


adventures—and trouble!—and be the first to confront any 
danger that threatened the Clan. 

But as Graystripe looked around at his Clanmates, he 
flicked his whiskers in amusement. Silly old tom—you re 
retired now, an elder! Isnt that what elders are supposed to 
do—let the younger, stronger cats fight the battles? He 
sought out his surviving kits, and their kits. Bumblestripe 
was sitting near the entrance to the warriors’ den, discussing 
the warrior code with his sister’s kit Shellfur, who had once 
been his apprentice. Across the clearing, Lionblaze was just 
choosing a piece of prey from the fresh-kill pile; his golden 
tabby pelt reminded Graystripe of Sandstorm, who had given 
her life to help Alderheart on his quest to discover the fate 
of SkyClan. 

Lionblaze carried the prey over to Spotfur, who sat 
hunched in on herself, still grieving for Stemleaf, who had 
been her mate. As Spotfur looked up to speak to Lionblaze, 
an even deeper memory stirred within Graystripe: The shape 
of her muzzle and the angle of her ears were exactly like 
those of Frostfur, her distant kin, who had chosen not to 
make the journey to the lake with the rest of ThunderClan, 
but to stay in the old forest, the Clans’ first territory. 

Remembered images of former Clanmates seemed to 
patrol through Graystripe’s mind. Thinking of Frostfur 
reminded Graystripe of her brother, Ravenpaw, his old friend 
who had left ThunderClan to live with the barn cat Barley. 


Sadness rippled through him as he remembered what the 
SkyClan cats had reported once they’d finally arrived at the 
lake: that Ravenpaw had visited them in their gorge, where 
he had died a hero’s death. 

Surely he must have gone to StarClan, he thought. He 
deserved it, ifany cat did. 

But thinking of StarClan led Graystripe to remember the 
current situation in the Clans. The impostor had been 
overcome in battle, and was being held as a prisoner in 
ShadowClan in the hope that he would reveal something 
that could help the Clans reconnect with StarClan. 
Squirrelflight had taken over as ThunderClan’s interim 
leader. Graystripe could still hardly believe that the impostor 
had fooled everyone for so long, though he didn’t doubt 
what Squirrelflight had declared, or the report of the 
impostor’s own confession. 

Graystripe shook his head, as if that would free it of dark 
memories. Suddenly Squirrelflight bounded down the 
tumbled rocks from her den on the Highledge and crossed to 
a group of younger warriors who were sprawled out near the 
rock wall of the camp. They fell quickly silent as she 
approached. 

“The fresh-kill pile is getting low,” she meowed. “There's 
time for another hunting patrol before dark.” 

The warriors stared at her but did not move, and 
Graystripe’s belly cramped with tension. Would they refuse 


to obey her order? Snaptooth stretched his jaws wide in an 
insolent yawn, while Thriftear simply rolled her eyes and let 
her nose rest on her curled-up tail. 

Graystripe noticed Thornclaw, a senior warrior, watching 
from a short distance away. Graystripe stretched his neck to 
try to catch the tom’s eye, but he sensed that Thornclaw 
was ignoring him. Say something! Graystripe urged in his 
mind. The younger warriors would listen if you reminded 
them to respect their leader: ... 

But Thornclaw wouldn’t meet his eye. Squirrelflight 
stood in front of the younger warriors, her green eyes 
narrowed, her gaze shifting to each of them in tum. 
Graystripe could see her muscles grow taut, as if she was 
finding it hard to restrain herself from leaping at the young 
warriors and clawing them around the ears. After a moment, 
Flywhisker muttered, “Okay, keep your fur on.” The whole 
group rose slowly to their paws and trailed across the camp 
to disappear into the thom tunnel. 

Squirrelflight glared after them, the tip of her tail 
twitching irritably to and fro. Graystripe felt just as angry on 
her behalf. Squirrelflight is our Clan deputy, and our leader 
until we know whether Bramblestar will return. Whats to 
become ofus if our warriors won t accept her authority? 

Once the younger warriors had left, Thornclaw turned 
and padded over toward Graystripe. 

“Why couldn’t you back up Squirrelflight?” Graystripe 


demanded as the tabby warrior approached. “Those young 
cats should know better than to be so disrespectful to their 
Clan leader.” 

Thornclaw halted. “Squirrelflight isn’t our leader,” he 
mewed sourly. “She has no right to lead. Bramblestar was 
made leader by StarClan. But Squirrelflight wasn’t our 
deputy anymore when the truth came out about the 
impostor. She was in exile—she wasn’t even a Clanmate!” 
He huffed out a sigh. “This is all a complete mess!” 

Graystripe’s pelt pricked with irritation. “That’s a load of 
mouse droppings!” he retorted. “She was only in exile 
because of the impostor, and he had no right! Now that 
she’s back where she belongs, we should all respect her, and 
give the same loyalty to her that we did to Bram—” 

“Why?” Thornclaw interrupted swiftly, his own shoulder 
fur bristling. “Just because she was Bramblestar’s mate?” 

“Of course not!” Graystripe was growing even angrier, 
his belly beginning to churn. “Squirrelflight has proven 
she’s a good deputy, time after time. And she’s a good 
leader too.” Memory caught at him again; he shook his head 
as he added, “Don’t forget there’ve been other times when 
ThunderClan was without a StarClan-appointed leader, and 
we’ve always done all right in the end!” 

Thornclaw turned and stalked off without another word, 
his tail lashing. Turning back with a dismissive grunt to his 
contemplation of the camp, Graystripe saw Squirrelflight 


heading toward him. He could see from the bemused glint in 
her eye that she’d witnessed his spat with Thornclaw. At 
least Iwas on the right side, he mused wryly. 

“Graystripe, can I have a word with you?” she asked. 

“Of course,” Graystripe replied. He couldn’t read her 
expression, but he imagined it couldn’t be easy for her to see 
how her Clanmates doubted her. 

“Then come up to my den,” Squirrelflight mewed with a 
swish of her tail. “I'd like to talk in private.” 

Surprised, Graystripe rose to his paws and followed the 
dark ginger she-cat up the tumbled rocks to the Highledge. 

Inside the leader’s den, Squirrelflight let herself drop into 
her nest with a long sigh that told Graystripe how tired she 
must be, even before he peered closer and noticed the strain 
in her green eyes, and the way her whiskers drooped. Out in 
the camp she had kept up the appearance of firm efficiency, 
but here, with only her oldest friend to see, she could let 
herself relax. She beckoned Graystripe with a tilt of her head 
and waited to speak until he had settled down beside her. 

“Graystripe, I know you were once deputy, and Га value 
your advice,” Squirrelflight began. “I believe that we’ll be 
able to get Bramblestar and StarClan back in the end, but as 
you’ve just seen, for now I’m struggling with a seriously 
divided Clan.” 

Graystripe nodded seriously. But I dont know why shes 
asking me, he thought. Firestar was much better at giving 


advice—or at putting his advice into words. I never know 
quite what to say, or how to say it. 

For a few heartbeats, his mind was blank. He couldn’t 
help wishing that Firestar were there, if only in spirit. 
ThunderClan’s previous leader hadn’t always known which 
path to choose, but Graystripe had never felt stronger than 
when he stood at his best friend’s side. 

“Squirrelflight,” he began at last, “I wish more than 
anything that I could tell you what to do, but I can’t. The 
false Bramblestar was so good at tuming Clanmates against 
one another—maybe we all just need time to remember that 
we’re on the same side. Those young warriors are a pain in 
the tail, but they’ve hardly known what the true 
ThunderClan was like, before the trouble started. Besides,” 
he added, “I wasn’t deputy for very long before the Twolegs 
took me away.” 

His time as the Clan’s leader, in Firestar’s absence, had 
been even shorter. And though everything was under 
control when Firestar returned, that wasnt true for all the 
time he was away, Graystripe thought, suppressing a 
shudder. I managed to keep the Clan together, but I knew 
then that Iwas no leader. 

Now, Graystripe wondered what he could offer 
Squirrelflight. What could he possibly say to her that would 
make her impossible job easier? 

“You were a good deputy,’ Squirrelflight meowed, 


though Graystripe found it hard to believe her. 

After a moment, he realized that Squirrelflight was 
staring at him. “What?” he asked. 

She twitched her whiskers. “Where did you go just 
then? I could see in your eyes that your mind was 
somewhere else.” 

Graystripe straightened up in surprise. He’d known 
Squirrelflight for her whole life, but he hadn’t realized she 
could read him so well. “Oh. I suppose I was .. . thinking 
about your father,” he admitted. 

Squirrelflight nodded. “And?” 

“And,” he went on, “well. It was a different job, being a 


deputy back then. In some ways, it felt like .. .” He trailed 
off, suddenly worried that this was the wrong thing to say to 
Squirrelflight. 


But she finished the thought for him. “A different Clan?” 
she asked. 

He let out a breath. “Yes,” he agreed, then blurted, “Not 
better or worse, but...” 

Squirrelflight shook out her pelt. “You can say it, 
Graystripe. In many ways, Firestar’s ThunderClan was 
better... at least, things seemed easier.” She sighed. 

“You have a difficult job,” Graystripe mewed. 

She met his gaze. “You had a difficult job, when my 
father left you to watch the Clan,” she replied. “I wasn’t 
born yet, but I heard stories about the tough choices you 


made.” 

Graystripe took in a breath, remembering. “It was more 
than I expected,” he murmured. “It actually showed me 
that... well, that I never want the job you have now.” 

Squirrelflight’s eyes widened. “Truly? You never wanted 
to be leader?” 

Graystripe shook his head. “Not after that experience. I 
told Firestar as much, when he returned.” 

Squirrelflight narrowed her eyes. “But you stayed on as 
deputy, didn’t you? At least...” 

Graystripe nodded. “I did,” he meowed, remembering. 
“Because I made your father a promise. Even though I would 
never be leader, I would be a loyal deputy. I would never 
leave ThunderClan. I would always put the Clan first.” 

Though Graystripe was looking at Squirrelflight, for a 
moment his memories clouded his vision. He could so clearly 
remember the promise he’d made Firestar. He remembered 
what it had felt like to see his dear friend after so long apart. 
Iwas so relieved. ... 

But he was brought back to the present by 
Squirrelflight’s voice. “So if that’s true—if you’ll always put 
the Clan first—can I count on your help?” 

Graystripe blinked, looking almost startled to see 
Squirrelflight before him. “My help?” he echoed. 

Squirrelflight flicked her ear. “I could use your advice, 
Graystripe,” she said. “Things in ThunderClan feel very 


delicate right now. I could use a warrior to count on.” 

“Of course,” Graystripe declared. But although his voice 
sounded confident, his mind was whirring. How long ago 
that promise seemed! A different lifetime . . . possibly even a 
different Clan. Firestar 5 ThunderClan. He’d left once, to go 
to RiverClan to be with his kits. But since he’d made that 
promise—after he’d kept the Clan together while Firestar 
went on his quest—he’d never questioned his place in 
ThunderClan. He’d never imagined wanting to leave. 

Until now. 

The thought made him shudder. No, surely .. . surely 1 
couldnt leave. But still, he had to admit that, for the first 
time in many seasons, his paws were starting to itch. It 
wasn’t so much that he didn’t want to be in ThunderClan 
anymore. It was the worry ... was the Clan he found himself 
in now the same Clan Firestar had left? And if not, could it 
become that Clan again? 

Graystripe shook his head, trying to force these 
thoughts away. Its absurd. I’m an old cat! Even if I lefi, 
where would I go? 

Squirrelflight needed him. Firestar would have expected 
himto stay, of course. 

“Graystripe,” Squirrelflight said again, her brusque tone 
bringing himout of his thoughts. “Are you still with me?” 

Graystripe shook out his pelt. “You can count on me,” he 
said simply. J know thats what she needs to hear right now. 


“I promise ГЇЇ help you keep the Clan together until we can 
reach StarClan again . . . and receive their guidance.” 

Squirrelflight responded with a grateful purr. 

Graystripe rose to his paws and dipped his head 
respectfully before leaving the den and picking his way 
down the tumbled rocks. He tried to push away the thought 
that kept repeating in his mind: What if we can’t reach 
StarClan again? If there was no StarClan to guide what 
remained of ThunderClan—no Firestar, no other ancestors 
to shape their future—was it still ThunderClan? 

Exhausted by his own doubts, Graystripe stumbled into 
the elders’ den and lay down. He could catch just a tiny hint 
of Millie’s scent still on the bedding . . . but it was fading 
every day. Soon it would be gone. 

Graystripe closed his eyes. Before sleep took him, one 
thought took shape in his mind: 

Ionly hope I just told Squirrelflight the truth. 


CHAPTER 2 


Se 


— Now — 


Graystripe was padding through the forest; the grass was 
soft beneath his paws and lightly tickled his pelt as he 
brushed through it. Sunlight struck down through the trees, 
the patches of light shifting as the branches rustled in a soft 
breeze. The forest air was full of the scents of green growth, 
and the succulent smell of prey nearby. 

But as Graystripe glanced around, he couldn’t be sure 
where he was. Is this ThunderClan territory? Then he 
realized that Firestar was walking along beside him, seeming 
perfectly comfortable in their surroundings. 

Firestar! Glancing over his shoulder, Graystripe 
recognized the barrier of thorns that guarded the current 
ThunderClan camp. So this is now, he thought with some 
surprise. We’re by the lake. Squirrelflight must be leader. 
But that would mean... 

As the two cats padded along in silence, he suddenly 
remembered that Firestar should be dead. Graystripe’s sense 
of relief at seeing his friend again was quickly replaced by a 
restless hope. Graystripe was an elder, a warrior, not a 
medicine cat ora leader... but was it possible that StarClan 
was trying to contact him directly? The cat beside him 


seemed solid and real enough. Maybe Firestar and I were 
close enough for him to send me a vision. I must pay 
attention to what he tells me. 

As soon as Graystripe realized that he was dreaming, the 
forest changed: The sunlight died, and the trees crowded 
together more densely. The lush scents were replaced by the 
tang of crow-food. But Firestar still looked real and alive, his 
flame-colored pelt glowing as if it were still lit up by the 
vanished sun. 

“Fires tar, what's happening?” Graystripe asked. 

His friend didn’t even look at him, heading onward 
through the trees as if he couldn’t hear or see Graystripe. 
The crushing sense of disappointment was like a massive 
paw pressing down on him. Dreaming of Firestar—walking 
alongside him—just made Graystripe miss his friend even 
more acutely. 

So it isnt a StarClan vision, Graystripe thought. The 
real Firestar, the spirit who is with our warrior ancestors, 
would certainly have something to say to me. 

Firestar kept going, and Graystripe followed in his paw 
steps. Even though he knew this was only a dream, he still 
hoped that his friend might have something to show him, 
some final words of wisdom or encouragement before he 
woke up. 

Hope flashed through Graystripe as Firestar finally 
halted. He bounded to catch up with him, but as he did so, 


deep darkness flowed around him, blotting out everything 
except his friend’s glowing figure. And though Firestar still 
didn’t speak, Graystripe felt a strong sense, tingling up 
through his pads and flowing to every part of his body, as 
far as his ears and the tip of his tail, that his friend was 
urging him to do something. 

“Why won’t you tell me what you want?” he meowed. 

For answer, Firestar turned his head, gazing into the 
darkness, and swept his tail around as if he was telling 
Graystripe to look, too. 

But by now it was too dark to make out anything of the 
forest; even the nearest trees were covered by the unnatural 
gloom. When he raised his head, Graystripe realized that a 
black cloud had covered the sun and all the sky that he 
could see. And when he looked back at his friend, Firestar’s 
glowing figure had vanished, too. Though the forest around 
him wasn’t cold, a chill settled around Graystripe’s heart, 
and icy claws of terror sank through his pelt. 

I have to get out of here. This is not a place I should 
be.... 


Graystripe woke, shuddering, to find himself lying in his 
nest in the elders’ den, his paws scrabbling through the 
moss and bracken as if he was trying to flee. The horror at 
the end of his dream still clung to him, like dark tendrils of 
mist seeping through his pelt. 

I have to get out of here, he thought, struggling with 


panic. 

Stumbling to his paws, he ducked under the low-growing 
branches of the hazel bush and emerged into the camp. The 
sun was shining down on the stone hollow, and a warm 
breeze rustled the trees above. Puffs of white cloud scudded 
across the sky. The clearing was almost empty; the patrols 
must be out, Graystripe realized. The only cats that he could 
see were Alderheart, laying out some leafy sprigs on a sun- 
warmed rock beside the medicine cats’ den, and his 
denmates Cloudtail and Brightheart sharing tongues near 
the fresh-kill pile. 

But the sunny, peaceful scene did little to calm 
Graystripe’s fears. His heart thumping as ifhe had blundered 
into a fox’s den, he bounded across the camp to thrust his 
way through the thorn tunnel and out into the forest. 

At first, as he padded through the trees, he couldn’t help 
turning his head from side to side, his glance flicking into 
every shadowed hollow and dense thicket. What am I afraid 
of? he asked himself. Then he realized that he was half 
expecting to see Firestar’s flame-colored spirit leaping into 
the open to confront and challenge him. 

“Are you completely mouse-brained?” he growled softly 
to himself. “There’s no need to be afraid of Firestar. I wish he 
would appear. Га like nothing better than to be able to talk 
things over with him. Then I might understand what it is he 
wants me to do.” 


But no bright spirit appeared. The forest was silent 
except for the rustling of leaves, birdsong, and the tiny 
scutterng of prey in the undergrowth. Gradually 
Graystripe’s racing heartbeat slowed, and he expanded his 
chest to take deep, calming breaths. 

But though the terror of his dream had receded, he 
couldn’t entirely dismiss it from his mind. Л wasn t a vision, 
he thought, but all the same, the dream must have meant 
something. I have to work out what that is. 

“Okay, Firestar wants me to do something,” he murmured 
to himself. “And he showed me the forest, so dark that no 
cat could live there. And I knew in the dream that it wasn’t 
the right place for me.” He blinked slowly for a few 
heartbeats. “Firestar, is that what you were trying to tell me? 
That I should leave the forest—leave ThunderClan?” 

Graystripe’s heart began to pound again at the enormity 
of what he was thinking. Even though he’d begun to toy 
with the idea, the reality of leaving ThunderClan still seemed 
impossible. Squirrelflight had reminded him of the promise 
he had once made to Firestar, that he would never leave their 
Clan. 

Га never break my word, he thought. But if Firestar was 
telling me himself that I dont belong . .. does that mean 
hes releasing me from my promise? But then, why didnt he 
say so? Iwish Ihad a cat to discuss it with. Oh, Millie, I do 
miss you! 


Almost as if his silent cry had summoned her, he was 
conscious of Millie very close to him. In his mind he 
pictured her: the graceful way she walked, her shining silver 
tabby fur, the glow of love in her blue eyes. Graystripe 
almost felt that if he turned his head he would be able to see 
her, though he knew it was all in his imagination. 

“Suppose I tell you all about it, Millie,” he murmured, 
settling himself on a soft cushion of moss and tucking his 
paws underneath him. “It’s so hard for me to make sense of 
everything, now that I don’t have you to talk things over 
with. You could always help me decide the right thing to 
do.” 

Tell me, then, he imagined Millie saying briskly. And for 
StarClan 5 sake, stop dithering! 

Graystripe let the sequence of his dream flow through 
his mind, as if he were describing what he had experienced. 
“Tt almost felt like Firestar was telling me to leave the Clan,” 
he explained. “But how is that possible? Wouldn’t he want 
me to stay here and support his daughter, now that she’s 
acting Clan leader?” 

Hardly had the words left his mouth before Graystripe 
could imagine Millie’s response. Maybe Firestar knows that 
you could serve the Clan better by leaving, she would have 
suggested. Maybe theres an important task you’re meant to 
carry out. 

“But I’m an elder,” Graystripe protested wryly. “We 


don’t do important tasks, not anymore.” 

With that thought, he began to wonder whether the 
promise he had made to Firestar so long ago still bound him 
in the present day. Perhaps that was what Firestar was trying 
to point out to him. He was an elder; he had no warrior 
duties now. And ThunderClan had been very different in 
those far-off days. “Oh, Millie, I wish you could tell me what 
to do!” 

His mate had always been practical. She’d had good 
sense. Why not see what other cats feel about it? she would 
have advised him. Or wait and see if anything else happens 
that might tell you what you re supposed to do? 

“Now you're talking like Pm a medicine cat, looking for 
signs,” Graystripe grumbled. 

He could imagine Millie prodding him in the side with her 
paw, or flicking his ear with her tail. Warriors look for signs 
all the time, she would meow. Signs that theres a rabbit 
down that burrow, or a mouse under that bush. Signs that 
its going to rain before sunhigh, and you'd better get back 
to camp. Not all signs come from StarClan. 

“True,” Graystripe admitted. “But this is a bit more 
complicated than a hunting patrol.” 

Even though he still hadn’t found an answer he could 
trust, Graystripe’s heart felt lighter after his imaginary 
conversation with his mate. When he had left the camp, he 
had felt as if he were struggling through dense forest with 


nothing to guide him. At least now, as he rose to his paws 
and turned back toward the stone hollow, he was able to 
believe that his paws would find a path forward, even 
though he didn’t yet know what that path would be. 

As Graystripe drew closer to the camp, a powerful 
ThunderClan scent wafted over him from a bank of fern, and 
a moment later the fronds parted and another elder emerged. 
Brackenfur was carrying prey in his jaws.. 

Graystripe called a greeting, and added, “It looks as if 
the prey was running well.” 

“Pretty good,” Brackenfur mumbled around the two mice 
he was carrying by their tails. “I felt like a hunt.” 

He was about to go on when Graystripe raised a paw to 
halt him. “Brackenfur, can I have a word?” he asked. 

Brackenfur blinked in surprise. “Sure,” he meowed, 
dropping the two mice. 

“There’s something I wanted to ask you,” Graystripe 
began. Now that he actually had to find the right words, he 
felt awkward, but he knew that Brackenfur was exactly the 
right cat to tell him what he needed to know. He had once 
been Graystripe’s apprentice, and had grown up in the old 
forest. He, too, had known ThunderClan when Bluestar, and 
then Firestar, was Clan leader. “You remember ThunderClan 
in the old days,” he began slowly. “Back when Firestar first 
became leader, and we had all that trouble with Tigerstar.” 

“Yes.” Brackenfur’s voice was mystified. “I remember a 


lot of stuff. Why are you asking me now?” 

“Well, I was wondering . . . Brackenfur, do you feel that 
it’s the same Clan now as it was then?” 

Brackenfur stared at him, looking even more confused. 
“Of course it’s the same Clan,” he replied. “I know what you 
mean, Graystripe. When the Clan’s in the middle of such a 
crisis, and especially when we’ve lost so many of our 
Clanmates from those times .. .” His voice shook a little, and 
Graystripe guessed he was remembering his mate, Sorreltail, 
who had been killed in the Great Battle, or his best friend, 
Dustpelt, who had worked with him on securing the camp 
and weatherproofing the dens. “But their kin still live on,” he 
continued more firmly. “And though Bramblestar is a 
different kind of leader from Firestar, he was still a good 
leader, before the impostor drove him out of his body. You 
mustn’t let these temporary problems get you down,” he 
told Graystripe, resting his tail-tip for a moment on the other 
elder’s shoulder: a gesture that irked Graystripe, even 
though he knew that his Clanmate meant to be reassuring. 
“We’ll sort it out sooner or later. We always do.” 

“Pm not so sure,” Graystripe responded. “There's so 
much arguing now, especially among the younger cats. 
Sometimes I feel like turning my back on the whole lot of 
them and leaving the whole Clan behind.” 

“Leave ThunderClan?” Brackenfur’s neck fur began to 
bristle with shock. “Oh, come on, Graystripe, you would 


never do that! I know I couldn’t,” he continued after a 
moment’s pause. “Not now, when they need us more than 
ever.” 

“T guess you’re right,” Graystripe murmured. Privately he 
wished that he felt the same way, or that he could share his 
Clanmate’s certainty. And if I believe what Brackenfur is 
telling me, what about my dream? How does that fit in? 

“Of course I’m right!” Brackenfur meowed confidently. 
“You'll see.” He picked up his mice and bounded off in the 
direction of the camp. 

Heaving a massive sigh, Graystripe followed in his paw 
steps. 


A loud yowl startled Graystripe as he approached the 
camp. Beyond the barrier of thorns, he could hear snarling 
and hissing from at least two cats. 

Great StarClan, what next? he asked himself. Is the 
impostor back? Or is it badgers... ? 

Graystripe pushed his way through the thorn tunnel and 
emerged into the stone hollow. Near the center of the 
clearing he saw Plumstone and Thriftear standing nose to 
nose, their fur bristling and their ears laid back. They were 
hissing so angrily at each other that Graystripe was sure that 
a fight was about to break out. 

“Hey,” he mewed, bounding across to join them 
“What's the problem here?” 

Both young she-cats turned toward him with identical 


expressions of hostility. “She's a traitor!” Plumstone snarled, 
lashing her tail toward Thriftear “She’s betrayed 
ThunderClan!” 

“No,” Thriftear growled. “She 5 the one who's a disgrace 
to our Clan!” 

The two cats crouched low, ready to leap at each other. 
Graystripe thrust his way between them, forcing them apart. 

“Slow down,” he meowed. “Tell me what happened.” 

“Ask her!” Thriftear hissed. “It's all her fault.” 

“No, it’s not!” Plumstone snapped back, then turned to 
Graystripe. “Get her to tell you what she did.” 

“I don’t care who it is that tells me,” Graystripe said, 
trying not to let his irritation show. “But one of you is going 
to. Or do we have to take this to Squirrelflight?” 

At the mention of the acting Clan leader, both she-cats 
seemed to shrink into themselves, staring down at their 
forepaws as they scrabbled in the earth of the camp floor. 
After a few heartbeats, Thriftear mumbled, “She ate my 
mouse.” 

“Tt wasn’t your mouse!” Plumstone flashed back at her. 
“It was me who picked it off the fresh-kill pile.” 

“Well, I was going to take it,” Thriftear grumbled. “And 
then she pushed her way in and grabbed it, and gobbled it 
up. She didn’t even offer to share!” 

“Thats what all this is about?” Graystripe asked with а 
sigh. “One stupid little mouse, when the fresh-kill pile is as 


full as Гуе ever seen it, in all my many moons? Have you 
both got bees in your brain? What do you suppose Firestar 
would have said if he ever saw two warriors ready to come 
to claws over a mouse?” 

“Oh, sure, that was Firestar,” Thriftear responded. “That 
was when ThunderClan had a veal leader!” 

Instantly, Plumstone’s shoulder fur bushed up. “Take 
that back!” she growled. “Squirrelflight is a real leader. And 
she’s doing the best job any cat could do.” 

“Yeah, and it’s worked out really great so far, hasn’t it?” 
Thriftear retorted with a contemptuous flick of her tail. 

Plumstone slid out her claws and braced her muscles to 
spring at her Clanmate. Once again, Graystripe hastily 
stepped between the two furious she-cats before they had 
the chance to claw each other’s fur off. 

Graystripe couldn’t work out how something so trivial 
had escalated to the point where two Clanmates were 
prepared to tear each other apart, accusing each other of 
treachery. Is this what we уе come to? he asked himself. 

“Its good that you can stand up for yourselves,” he 
continued. “That will be useful to your Clan, but you both 
need to stop looking for enemies everywhere. ThunderClan 
needs to unite behind Squirrelflight, or we could fall apart for 
good.” He thought again of his promise to Squirrelflight, and 
wondered how he could deliver on it. How can Imake them 
understand that the Clan is more important than any one 


leader? His mind flew back to a time at Sunningrocks, when 
a couple of bickering warriors had been too distracted 
arguing over prey to defend their Clan from a RiverClan 
attack. Our younger warriors could learn something from 
that. “When Firestar was leader... ” he began. 

Plumstone looked up, glaring at him and drawing her lips 
back in the beginning of a snarl. “That’s the problem with 
elders,” she sneered. “They’re all stuck in the past! But 
looking backward won’t help ThunderClan now. We don’t 
need advice from some bygone moon. Things worked 
differently then.” 

“Yeah,” Thriftear agreed, fixing Graystripe with an 
identical glare. “Firestar isn’t our leader anymore. And we 
couldn’t even ask him what he thinks if we wanted to! 
StarClan has left us. Our ancestors are gone, and we need to 
work out how we’re going to survive without them.” 

“That’s right,’ Plumstone meowed. “We have to look 
forward. The old solutions won’t work, and if we keep on 
thinking they will, then it’s like our minds will be stuffed full 
of thistle-fluff” 

“Are you saying ... ,” Graystripe began, his tail-tip 
twitching in spite of his efforts to repress his rising anger. 

“She’s saying that your time is over.” Thriftear thrust her 
muzzle toward him. “It’s the warriors who make the decisions 
now, not the elders. Come on, Plumstone. We’ve better 
things to do.” 


The two young cats spun around and stalked off side by 
side, their pelts brushing as they headed back toward the 
fresh-kill pile. 

“Pll find you another good mouse,” Plumstone 
promised. 

Well... at least I did stop their fighting, Graystripe 
thought wryly. But still, his heart ached. Watching them, 
Graystripe felt a bit like a ghost, an ancestor who just hadn’t 
got around to dying yet. They think Firestar’ days are 
gone. And which cat is to say that they’re wrong? 

It was the same thing he himself felt. It was the doubt 
that made him question whether he could help Squirrelflight 
at all. We’re like another Clan now. 

As he let himself sink into a crouch, a cloud passed over 
the sun and the camp darkened, reminding him of the forest 
in his dream. 

Maybe my advice is too outdated for todays 
ThunderClan, he thought with a shudder. Perhaps he’d 
been right about what his dream had been trying to tell him: 
that this really wasn’t the place for him anymore. 

Maybe this really is a sign... a sign that ThunderClan 
would be better off without me. 


That night, Graystripe barely slept, and he was already 
awake again when the dawn light began to seep into the sky. 
But he was so deep in thought, reliving over and over the 
events of the day before, that it took him some time to realize 


that some kind of commotion was going on in the camp. He 
rose to his paws, wincing at the creak of his old bones, and 
shuffled out into the open. 

At first glance, it seemed as though all of ThunderClan 
had gathered in the clearing. As he padded forward, 
Graystripe spotted Lionblaze and Thornclaw, facing each 
other, with Bristlefrost, Sorrelstripe, Flipclaw, Snaptooth, and 
several more of their Clanmates standing around them in a 
ragged circle. The air was heavy with tension, as if a 
thunderstorm were about to break. 

Lionblaze and Thornclaw stood stiff-legged, their tails 
lashing and their shoulder fur bristling. They looked like 
they were about to attack each other. Graystripe’s pelt 
pricked with alarm. Lionblaze and Thornclaw were senior 
warriors; they shouldn’t be scuffling over trivial disputes 
the way Plumstone and Thriftear had. They could really hurt 
each other! 

He glanced up toward Squirrelflight’s den, but there was 
no sign of the Clan leader. She must be out of the camp, 
Graystripe thought. Theres no way she could have missed 
this racket. 

Pricking his ears, Graystripe heard Thomclaw grumbling, 
“We're floundering like fish on a riverbank when we should 
know what to do.” 

“How can we know?” Lionblaze challenged. “No Clan 
has had a leader stranded between life and death before.” 


Thornclaw gave a stiff nod. “Exactly. And no Clan 
should. Our leader should be here, leading us.” 

Lionblaze tilted his head, as if not understanding. 
“How?” 

“A Clan isn’t a Clan without a proper leader,” Thornclaw 
snapped, ignoring the question. 

“We have Squirrelflight,” Lionblaze retorted instantly. 

“She’s our deputy.” 

A deeper fury lit in Lionblaze’s eyes, and he thrust out 
his muzzle so that he and Thornclaw were nose to nose. “I’m 
your deputy for now!” he snarled. 

“Which is why you’re so happy with the way things 
are,” Thornclaw flashed back at him. “You were a warrior a 
moon ago, like the rest of us.” 

Twigbranch was stepping forward, challenging 
Thornclaw, but he was growing too angry to pay any 
attention to her. Graystripe felt his hackles begin to rise. 
Thornclaw might be Stemleafs father, and mate of my 
daughter Blossomfall, but right now it doesnt matter if hes 
grieving—he 5 behaving as ifhe has bees in his brain. 

Forcing his anger down, Graystripe padded into the 
crowd of cats. Thormclaw and Lionblaze had chased off 
Twigbranch, who was now retreating with a frustrated shrug 
of her shoulders. Bumblestripe too had tried to slip between 
the quarreling cats, only to be met with two identical glares. 

“...the only reason you're the one making decisions is 


because you’re Squirrelflight’s kin,” Thornclaw was snarling 
at Lionblaze. 

Uneasiness stirred in Graystripe’s belly at that 
suggestion, and he could see from their ruffled pelts and 
worried glances that most of his Clanmates shared it. 

Lionblaze gave another furious lash of his tail. “Take that 
back!” he demanded. 

“How can I take back the truth?” Thornclaw challenged 
him. “Since Firestar’s time, there’s been no question about 
who ThunderClan’s next leader might be.” 

“ThunderClan’s leadership has always passed from 
leader to deputy,” Lionblaze objected, “as the warrior code 
says it should!” 

“So it’s just a coincidence that Firestar made his 
daughter’s mate deputy,” Thornclaw continued. 

Lionblaze dug his foreclaws into the earth. “Bramblestar 
was the strongest warrior in ThunderClan!” 

“And Bramblestar named his own mate deputy. And now 


” 


“She deserved to be deputy!” 

Thornclaw yowled over him. “And now Firestar’s kin—a 
cat Squirrelflight and Bramblestar raised as their own kit—is 
ThunderClan deputy. Are we supposed to believe that only 
one family in this Clan can raise kits to be leaders? Are the 
rest of us just here for them to order around? Who will you 
name deputy? Sparkpelt? Flamepaw?” 


Graystripe couldn’t help feeling that Thornclaw had a 
point. Perhaps it was strange for one family to have had 
control over a Clan for so long. But he couldn’t sympathize 
with the way Thomclaw was saying it, as if a deliberate 
choice had been made to exclude other cats. 

It was obvious, too, that Thornclaw thought he should 
have been made deputy instead of Lionblaze. Graystripe 
wasn’t surprised: Thornclaw was a strong, experienced 
warrior, and he would have made a good deputy. 

I wish Lionblaze could understand that, and calm 
down. 

But there seemed to be no chance of that. “Why are you 
trying to stir up trouble in the Clan?” Lionblaze demanded, 
glaring at Thornclaw. “Don’t we have enough to worry 
about?” 

“Should we blindly trust you without asking 
questions?” Thornclaw’s voice was a deep growl from 
within his chest. “The way we trusted Bramblestar?” 

“Pmnot asking you to blindly trust any cat—” 

Thornclaw thrust his head forward. “It’s trusting our 
leaders that got us into this trouble in the first place. Our 
faith in Bramblestar allowed the impostor to get away with 
his crimes for moons! It almost destroyed ThunderClan.” 

Lionblaze’s eyes were alight with fury. “The only cats 
who might destroy ThunderClan now are featherbrained 
warriors starting trouble for no reason!” He took a pace 


toward Thornclaw and unsheathed his claws. “Like you!” he 
spat. 

In response, Thornclaw hissed and arched his back. 
Graystripe’s heart ached with sadness to think that such a 
thing could happen in ThunderClan: two Clanmates, 
moments away from attacking each other in the middle of 
camp. No, this isnt the Clan I thought I knew. 

But no sooner had he thought it than his sadness was 
driven out by a burst of anger so unexpected that he had to 
look away, and grit his teeth against the urge to leap into the 
argument himself. 

These cats will tear the Clan apart because they cant 
see they те on the same side, he thought. Its Lionblaze 5 job 
as deputy to settle disagreements, not make them worse! Is 
ThunderClan really coming apart like this? 

When he looked back, he saw that Bristlefrost, 
desperation in her eyes, had put herself between the two 
warriors, while Thornclaw was hissing at her to stay out of 
it. 

Then movement drew his gaze to the end of the thom 
tunnel. Squirrelflight and her patrol had returned. 
Immediately, the Clan leader dropped her prey and bounded 
into the center of the clearing, where Lionblaze and 
Thornclaw still faced each other. 

“What’s going on?” she asked, glancing from Lionblaze 
to Thornclaw and back again. 


Squirrelflight will sort this out, Graystripe thought. But 
almost at once he realized he had been too optimistic. 

“Thornclaw is questioning ThunderClan’s leadership,” 
Lionblaze growled. 

“What does Lionblaze mean?” Squirrelflight turned a 
cold green gaze on Thornclaw. 

“Pmnot ashamed to say it,” Thornclaw retorted. “If we’d 
questioned our leader earlier, we might have avoided a lot of 
trouble,” the tabby tom insisted. 

Graystripe could see Squirrelflight’s irritation rising at 
Thornclaw’s words. She had been Clan deputy when the 
trouble started, and he was clearly holding her responsible 
for having let the impostor take control of the Clan. “It’s 
pointless worrying about what we should have done,” she 
mewed firmly. “It’s what we do next that’s important. And 
right now, ThunderClan must stick together. Until we can 
find a way of getting Bramblestar back, we need to trust one 
another.” 

Thornclaw snorted. “You didn’t seem to think that when 
you abandoned your Clan.” 

“Inever abandoned my Clan,” Squirrelflight snapped. “I 
had no choice but to leave... .” 

Graystripe’s heart sank as Squirrelflight continued to 
plead her case. He could feel tension and anxiety spreading 
throughout the Clan like ripples in a pool. It’ because we уе 
been reminded of our lost leader, he realized. Bramblestar is 


stuck between worlds now—no cat knows when, or if, he'll 
be able to come back! Of course its hard for us to unite 
behind a new leader. He and his Clanmates couldn’t even 
know whether Bramblestar’s spirit was still alive. A young 
SkyClan warrior had seen his ghost prowling around the 
lake, but that had been a while ago. What had happened to 
Bramblestar was so bizarre that Graystripe had trouble 
wrapping his head around it. Allhe knew was that the loss 
oftheir leader was breaking the Clan. 

“If we could just get in touch with StarClan,” 
Twigbranch was suggesting to Jayfeather, who stood with 
Alderheart just outside the medicine cats’ den. “Then maybe 
we would know whether our paws are on the right path. We 
could allrelaxa bit.” 

So far, Jayfeather had taken no part in the commotion. 
Now he gave his whiskers an irritated twitch. “Do you think 
we haven’t been trying?” he demanded. “What do you 
expect me to do? Fly up to the stars and drag themdown by 
their tails?” 

“There’s nothing more we can do until they’re ready to 
share with us,” Alderheart pointed out more calmly. 

“What’s the point of ancestors who only tum up when it 
suits them?” Snaptooth asked irritably, and soon set off 
another argument among his Clanmates. 

“Yeah, can’t you dream yourselves into StarClan or 
something?” 


“What if they never come back?” 

Graystripe closed his eyes as more protests and 
questions swirled around him. Jayfeather’s sarcasm hadn’t 
helped matters. But Graystripe had to admit he shared some 
of his Clanmates’ doubts. He didn’t want to imagine what 
could happen if StarClan didn’t return. 

And yet... 

“If our ancestors have abandoned us,” Flipclaw was 
saying now, “why bother following traditions they 
invented? We don’t even live in the forests they were born 
in. We can make up our own codes to suit our new life 
beside the lake.” 

Lilyheart stared at him with wide eyes. “Do you really 
think the warrior code should change?” 

Flipclaw shrugged. “I don’t know what I think. But isn’t 
StarClan’s absence a perfect opportunity to work out what 
we believe?” 

Even though he too had wondered about a future 
without StarClan, Graystripe was shocked by the young 
warrior’s words. Not only was Flipclaw suggesting that they 
would never again know the guidance of their warrior 
ancestors—he was suggesting that they didn’t need it. 

What stunned Graystripe even more was that some cats 
seemed to agree with Flipclaw. Thats not right, he told 
himself, clinging to the certainty that he had lived by all his 
life. A Clan cant live without its ancestors’ 


guidance ... and its not what I want. Oh, Firestar, what if 1 
never speak to you again... or Silverstream, or all the 
other cats I’ve loved and lost? What would ThunderClan 5 
purpose even be? 

He was reminded of the last time he’d seen Firestar . . . or 
dreamed of him. The unsettling dream came roaring back, 
along with the doubts it had ignited. Perhaps I dont belong 
in the forest anymore. Perhaps that was the last time ГЇЇ 
ever see Firestar. . . . Maybe that’s what he was trying to 
show me. 

“ ..T love being a warrior,” Flipclaw was meowing now. 
“I would die to protect my Clanmates. But after everything 
that’s happened with the false Bramblestar, I need a chance 
to think about what being a warrior really means.” Turning to 
face Squirrelflight, he added, “I think we all do.” 

“I already know what being a warrior means,” 
Squirrelflight growled, her green gaze scorching the young 
tom. 

Flipclaw took a deep breath. “Then perhaps I should go 
for a wander,” he meowed. “Alone. To think things through, 
and decide whether to come back to ThunderClan. Maybe I 
can find better, less dangerous territory where we can live. 
Or maybe it’s time we all stopped living like this, in Clans.” 

Graystripe felt his pelt prickle with shock as gasps of 
disbelief came from some of the assembled cats. Did he just 
say that? And yet he realized that it was the only logical 


conclusion to what Flipclaw had suggested earlier. What 
was the purpose of a Clan if it wasn’t guided by its 
ancestors? Graystripe felt a pain in his chest, as though he’d 
been pricked by a sharp branch. /t wont matter whether 1 
uphold my promise, if ThunderClan is going to fall apart 
with or without me. 

“Flipclaw, you don’t mean that!” Bristlefrost’s voice was 
outraged as she glared at her brother. 

“Maybe he does,” Snaptooth retorted from where he 
stood at the back of the crowd. “And maybe I agree with 
him.” 

“Then maybe you should both go,” Squirrelflight 
responded, the tip of her tail flicking angrily to and fro. 

Thornclaw padded up to Flipclaw’s side. His shoulder 
fur lay flat again; his rage at Lionblaze seemed to have 
vanished, and when he spoke, his voice was quiet but clear, 
carrying to every comer of the camp. “I want to go for a 
wander too.” 

Several cats let out yowls of protest, and Graystripe 
could understand why. It would be easy to disregard the 
younger warriors, whatever they decided. But Thornclaw 
wasn't just a rebellious young cat growing disillusioned 
with Clan life; he was a well-respected senior warrior. 

“Me too,” Flywhisker added, stepping up to join her 
Clanmates. Flipclaw gave her a warm glance and eased 
himself closer to her. 


Snaptooth shouldered his way through the crowd of 
agitated cats and stood beside his littermate. “And me.” 

“Can’t we all take a while to cool down?” Lionblaze 
asked, padding up to Squirrelflight and glancing between 
her and his kits with a pleading look in his amber eyes. “This 
isn’t a decision any warrior should take lightly.” 

Graystripe could guess how disappointed the Clan 
deputy must be to see two of his kits prepared to walk away 
from the Clan he loved so much. But neither Snaptooth nor 
Flywhisker was prepared to listen to his plea. 

“We're not taking it lightly,” Snaptooth retorted. “We're 
taking it very seriously. That’s why we need to go—to have 
the space that we need to think!” 

For a few moments, Graystripe stood still, taking in the 
expressions of his Clanmates and listening to the protests 
from cats trying to persuade Thomclaw and the others to 
stay. Bristlefrost in particular looked horrified at the thought 
that her brother, Flipclaw, had set his paws on a path that led 
away from their Clan. 

Graystripe thought again of his promise to Squirrelflight. 
He felt a certainty gathering within him that this was his time 
to speak. Surely he could find words from his long 
experience of life within his Clan, of times when the world 
had looked just as bleak as it did now: words that would 
change the younger warriors’ minds and revitalize their 
loyalty. Surely he could tum things around for Squirrelflight! 


He raised his head and opened his jaws to speak, but 
before any words could come out, he noticed Thornclaw 
speaking with Blossomfall, who was gazing up at her mate 
with wide, disbelieving eyes. “If I decide to leave,” he 
murmured, “TIl return to say good-bye.” 

Graystripe struggled to find words. As he looked around 
at the confused faces of his Clanmates, he was struck by 
how very young they all seemed. It reminded him of his 
argument with Plumstone and Thriftear the day before, and 
how it had made him question whether he still had any 
useful part to play in the life of his Clan. Just another elder, 
another mouth to feed... young cats dont want to hear 
anything I have to tell them. And maybe I am holding them 
back with my memories of how it used to be. 

I should leave. As he thought the words, he felt as 
though the sun had come out from behind a cloud. Along 
with the shock he shared with the rest of his Clan, he felt a 
strange sense of relief. He could have told his Clanmates 
what he thought he should feel about warriors leaving the 
Clan—that it was wrong, a bad idea—but that wasn’t how 
he truly felt. He had been struggling for a while with his 
place in the Clan, but he had never imagined having the 
courage to get up and leave, after dedicating so much of his 
life to ThunderClan. Now, no matter what he had told 
Squirrelflight earlier, he knew that what he’d felt in his dream 
of Firestar had been right: this wasn’t the place for him now. 


Perhaps it wouldn’t be right to leave permanently—but 
maybe he had to get away to know for sure. This new idea of 
a “wander” could be just what he needed, to give himself 
time to work it all out. 

Slowly he padded forward, his Clanmates drawing aside 
to let him through the crowd, until he stood in front of 
Squirrelflight. “I’m going to leave too,” he mewed quietly. 

He was aware of a ripple of shock passing through the 
assembled Clan. The older warriors, he knew, would 
understand what ThunderClan meant to him, and be startled 
by the idea that he might ever leave it. Of course they 
wouldn’t expect Graystripe to want to go. He could hear 
some of their disbelieving comments. 

“First Thornclaw—not Graystripe too!” 

“TI thought he would be the last cat to leave his Clan.” 

Squirrelflight stared into his eyes, mingled shock and 
grief and betrayal in her green gaze. “You told me you’d 
support me,” she responded, her voice rasping in her throat. 
“You said I could count on you.” 

Graystripe bowed his head. Guilt surged through him. 
He’d never meant to hurt Squirrelflight, but he understood 
something now that he hadn’t when he’d made his vow to 
her. J cant sort this out here, surrounded by cats who 
remind me that things arent the way they used to be—and 
how I wish they still were. “I’m sorry,” he choked out. “I 
can’t keep that promise.” 


Squirrelflight stood frozen like a cat made of ice. “But 
why? You made a promise to my father too, that you’d never 
leave ThunderClan—or have you forgotten that?” 

Graystripe felt another pang of regret. He knew that he 
was failing his Clan at this moment of crisis: failing his 
leader, and the memory of Firestar, by breaking that long-ago 
promise at last. But he knew that it was the right thing for 
him to do. And perhaps Firestar had released him from his 
promise, in the dream that he still didn’t fully understand. 

“Too much has changed,” he told her “I’ve been 
through so much with ThunderClan: the destruction of the 
old forest, being lost and living as a kittypet, then finding 
you again. But the ThunderClan I see today isn’t the same 
one I served under Firestar. I don’t know that I still belong 
here. I need time to think.” 

Squirrelflight stepped back, letting her gaze travel over 
all the cats who had declared that they meant to leave. “If 
this is your decision,” she meowed, “then go with my good 
wishes. You know your own minds, and I won’t try to 
change them” Her voice grew more ominous. “But 
remember, a warrior takes care of their Clan. If you go, you 
are letting down your Clanmates. I will tolerate this for now, 
but if you do not return within a moon, do not come back at 
all.” 

Graystripe dipped his head to her in deepest respect, 
then turned away and headed toward the thorn tunnel. He 


could hear the sound of paw steps as the other four cats 
followed him. Squirrelflight's lament over his broken 
promises to her and to Firestar was still ringing in his ears, 
and something in his heart was wailing like a lost kit at the 
thought of all that he was leaving behind. He took one last 
glance over his shoulder before plunging into the thorn 
tunnel. 

Is this the last time ГЇЇ see my home? Is this really good- 
bye? 

As he emerged into the forest, his thoughts flew like 
homing birds back to the time, so long ago and far away, 
when he had made the promise he’d just broken. 


CHAPTER 3 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe sat at the edge of the camp, his tail wrapped 
neatly around his paws, and gazed unseeingly toward where 
Dustpelt was on guard at the opening of the gorse tunnel. 
He was enjoying the peace of ThunderClan—he was acting 
leader while Firestar was away, and so far, everything 
seemed to be going well. There was plenty of prey in the 
forest, the thom walls of the camp were strong enough to 
keep out marauding foxes and badgers, and so far none of 
the other Clans had decided to cause trouble. 

Even so, Graystripe couldn’t help wishing that his 
mother, Willowpelt, could be here to see how peaceful life 
was now. She had died a noble warrior’s death, fighting a 
badger to protect Graystripe’s half brother Sootpaw. Her 
three youngest kits, all apprentices, were still stunned by her 
loss. 

I think some in the Clan have forgotten that Willowpelt 
was my mother, too, he thought. But in a way, Graystripe was 
grateful for the lack of attention. He could grieve quietly for 
Willowpelt, without having to work through that grief in 
front of the entire Clan. 

The camp was tranquil now; the dawn patrol had 


retumed to report that there was no sign of problems on the 
borders, and most of the warriors had gone out on hunting 
patrols. Graystripe looked forward to seeing a well-stocked 
fresh-kill pile by the time the sun set. 

Gazing around, he saw Cinderpelt slipping in and out of 
her den, laying out some herbs to dry in the sun, while the 
elders Dappletail and One-eye were lazily sharing tongues at 
the edge of their den beside the fallen tree-trunk. They were 
listening to Speckletail, who seemed to be telling them a 
story with much waving of her tail and forepaws. 

Outside the nursery, Ferncloud and the heavily pregnant 
Brightheart were chatting together while they watched 
Ferncloud’s kits. The two energetic little toms were tossing a 
scrap of tree bark to and fro, squealing excitedly as they 
batted at it with their soft paws. 

Graystripe was just close enough to hear the she-cats’ 
voices, and a worm of uneasiness began wriggling in his 
belly as he realized what they were talking about. 

“Firestar’s scent has faded from the camp,” Ferncloud 
mewed sadly. “It’s as ifhe was never here.” 

“I know.” Brightheart tilted her head to one side. “I never 
thought he would just go off and leave us like that.” She 
hesitated, then added, “Do you believe that he’s gone on a 
mission for StarClan?” 

“I don’t know what to believe,” Ferncloud sighed. 
“Dustpelt says he thinks Firestar might have gotten tired of 


leading his Clan, and gone offto be a kittypet again.” 

Graystripe felt his shoulder fur beginning to rise in 
mingled outrage and apprehension; he pricked his ears so as 
not to miss a word of the she-cats’ conversation. Is this 
what every cat is saying behind my back? 

“Do you really think that?” Brightheart asked, her tone 
edged with anxiety. 

“T don’t want to,” Ferncloud responded. “And I don’t 
think Dustpelt really believes it. But I still want to know 
where Firestar has gone, and when he’s going to come 
back.” 

Dont we all, Graystripe thought ruefully. He wondered 
whether, as acting leader, he should go across and put a 
stop to the she-cats’ speculations. But that would only 
cause an argument, he reminded himself. Cinderpelt and 1 
know that Firestar is searching for SkyClan, but we’re not 
meant to tell the others. That means theres nothing that 1 
could tell them that they havent heard already. Maybe in a 
few heartbeats they'll stop worrying about Firestar and 
start talking about the kits or something. Then we can have 
a bit of peace. 

Watching the two she-cats leaning closer together, their 
mews too soft now for him to overhear, Graystripe realized 
how swiftly, with how few words, his peaceful mood of a few 
moments ago had been shattered. Still, he knew that, 
inevitably, peace could not last for long until the real Clan 


leader returned. 

Even as the thought crossed his mind, Cinderpelt 
finished arranging her herbs and bounded up to him, flicking 
her tail over his ears. “Wake up, Graystripe!” she mewed 
cheerfully. “We have a Clan to run.” 

Graystripe rose to his paws and arched his back in a long 
stretch, trying to put what he had heard out of his mind. “I 
wasn’t asleep,” he responded mildly, “and in any case, 
there’s no more to do until the evening patrols go out. 
Look,” he added, angling his ears toward the entrance to the 
camp, “the hunters are coming back, and it seems as if the 
prey is running well.” 

Ashfur was just emerging from the thorn tunnel, carrying 
a plump pigeon. The other members of the patrol, Cloudtail 
and Mousefur, followed him, also laden with their own catch. 
Graystripe padded after them as they headed for the fresh- 
kill pile. 

“Good job,” he meowed. “The Clan will eat well tonight.” 

Ashfur dropped his pigeon on the pile and turned to 
Graystripe with a sneer. “At least we have two fewer mouths 
to feed. I hope Firestar and Sandstorm are enjoying their 
kittypet treats.” 

“Yeah,” Cloudtail agreed, ruffling his fluffy white pelt. 
“After all the fuss he made when / went off for a kittypet 
snack now and again!” 

Graystripe stared at them, appalled. “You should all be 


ashamed of yourselves!” Ashfur and Cloudtail exchanged a 
derisive glance, as if they couldn’t care less what he was 
saying. Graystripe’s eyes then flitted to Brightheart and 
Ferncloud. Realizing just how many cats were openly 
questioning Firestar, he knew he needed to act decisively as 
the Clan’s temporary leader Graystripe tried to force 
authority into his voice, tried to at least sound decisive. “No 
loyal warriors would gossip about their leader while he’s 
away.” 

But even while he was speaking, Graystripe saw his 
Clanmates averting their gazes and flicking their tails 
41511115 sively. He realized that they weren’t willing to listen to 
him in the way they had listened to Firestar. 

“He shouldn’t be away,” Cloudtail pointed out. “Then 
there would be nothing to gossip about.” 

Graystripe opened his jaws for a stinging rebuke, but 
before he could utter a word, Mousefur interrupted. 

“So where is the great Firestar, then?” Mousefur 
demanded. “He must be on a very important mission, since 
he’s definitely not living the kittypet life.” 

“Once a kittypet, always a kittypet,” Ashfur muttered. “If 
he were on an important mission, he wouldn’t have had to 
hide it from the rest of the Clan.” 

Graystripe knew there was nothing more he could say to 
satisfy them. Part of him understood how shocked the Clan 
had been by Firestar’s departure, and he could hardly blame 


them for feeling that their leader had betrayed them. But he 
had promised Firestar that he wouldn’t tell any cat that the 
mission he had left to carry out was a quest to find the lost 
SkyClan, which had once been the fifth Clan, until it was 
driven out of the forest. Only he and Cinderpelt knew that. 

“He has gone on a journey at the request of StarClan. 
Where they have sent him is none of your business,” he 
growled. 

“Well, the safety of the Clan is our business,” Ashfur 
retorted. “And I for one am not sure that you’re up to 
leading it.” 

For a moment all Graystripe could do was stare in 
astonishment at the younger warrior. He couldn’t believe 
that any cat would challenge him like that—or, worse, 
challenge Firestar, who had left him in charge. He felt his 
shoulder fur begin to bristle and forced it to lie flat; he would 
have liked to claw the sneering look off Ashfur’s face, but 
he knew he had to remain calm. 

“That wasn’t your decision to make,” he mewed evenly. 
“Firestar chose me as his deputy, and what other cat—” 

“Yes, and not every cat is happy about that,” Mousefur 
interrupted. “A Clan deputy should always be loyal to their 
Clan. You left ThunderClan and went to RiverClan. You have 
kits in RiverClan, for StarClan’s sake! If there’s trouble with 
RiverClan now, who knows what side you would be on?” 

“But we don’t have trouble with RiverClan,” Graystripe 





declared. 

“That’s not the point,” Ashfur meowed. “We might. And 
in any case, Graystripe, there are plenty of cats in this Clan 
who don’t think you have what it takes to be leader.” 

“Yeah, you haven’t even appointed a deputy,” Cloudtail 
put in. “What if Firestar doesn’t come back? You couldn’t 
lead the Clan on your own.” 

“But Firestar is coming back,” Graystripe insisted, 
though he wondered if he was speaking the whole truth. 
Sure, Firestar intends to come back. But he’ll meet a lot ој 
dangers where he’ gone—dangers we cant even imagine. 

“But what if he doesn’t?” Cloudtail was clearly unwilling 
to let the matter drop. “Honestly, Graystripe, you need a 
deputy.” 

Graystripe fixed his gaze upon the white warrior, more 
puzzled with him than angry. “I’m not Clan leader, only 
acting leader. If Firestar had wanted an acting deputy, he 
would have appointed one before he left.” With an irritated 
riffle of his whiskers, he added, “Why, Cloudtail, do you 
want the job?” 

“T think Dustpelt should be made deputy,” Ashfur 
meowed before Cloudtail could reply. “There are some cats 
who think it would be better if he’d been named deputy in 
the first place, Graystripe.” 

Fury swelled inside Graystripe; it took a massive effort 
for him to stop himself leaping at Ashfur, claws unsheathed. 


He took a deep breath, and when he spoke, his voice was 
dangerously quiet. “Who are these cats, Ashfur, who are 
questioning Firestar’s judgment?” 

Ashfur hesitated, clearly not wanting, or not able, to 
respond. In the breathing space, Graystripe glanced across 
the camp to where Dustpelt still sat on watch at the entrance 
to the gorse tunnel. He wondered whether the brown tabby 
warrior had any idea what his Clanmates were saying about 
him, or could overhear the argument raging around the 
fresh-kill pile. 

Sure, hes a loyal ThunderClan cat, Graystripe thought. 
And a brave and skillful warrior He would make a good 
deputy. Briefly his fur prickled with uneasiness. Better than 
me? Then he gave his pelt a shake, banishing the 
unwelcome thought. Firestar didnt choose him, and thats 
that. 

“Tf Firestar wanted us to respect his judgment, he should 
have stayed here,” Ashfur replied at last. “And I still think 
you should make Dustpelt your deputy. Then we might have 
a bit of order around here.” 

“Order?” Graystripe started at the sound of Cinderpelt’s 
voice; he hadn’t realized that the medicine cat had padded 
silently up to stand at his shoulder “Ashfur, the only 
disorder I see around here is you three questioning the 
decisions of your leader.” 

Glancing at Cinderpelt, Graystripe saw the fire of fury 


blazing in her blue eyes. For such a gentle cat, she doesnt 
stand for any nonsense, he thought appreciatively. 

Ashfur immediately took a step back. Cloudtail couldn’t 
meet that searing gaze, while Mousefur was suddenly 
preoccupied with grooming a tangled tuft of fur on her 
shoulder. 

“Fires tar is a leader appointed by StarClan,” the medicine 
cat continued. Her voice was as chilly as a wind sweeping 
across a snowy hillside. “He appointed Graystripe in the 
proper way. If StarClan disapproved, they’ve had plenty of 
opportunity to make their opinion known.” 

“But I—’ Ashfur began. 

Cinderpelt ignored his attempt to interrupt. “Meanwhile, 
Graystripe hasnt been appointed by StarClan. He cant 
appoint another deputy. And Firestar didn’t seem to see the 
need before he left. So why don’t we all get on with our 
duties and start minding our own business?” 

“Good idea,” Graystripe snarled. Without waiting for a 
response, he turned and stalked away toward the warriors’ 
den. 

Before he reached it, he heard his name being called 
urgently from the direction of the gorse tunnel. “Graystripe! 
Graystripe!” 

He whipped around to see Brackenfur racing across the 
camp toward him, with Thornclaw and Brambleclaw hard on 
his paws. Brambleclaw was the Clan’s newest warrior, having 


received his name from Firestar just before he and 
Sandstorm had left on their quest. This patrol had also gone 
out hunting, but they weren’t carrying any prey. Brackenfur 
held something in his jaws, but it was too small even to be a 
mouse. 

“What’s the matter?” Graystripe asked as the three 
warriors halted in front of him, and stood panting. “You look 
as if you’ve been running all the way across the whole 
territory.” 

“We have,” Thomclaw mewed grimly. 

Brackenfur dropped the thing he was carrying at 
Graystripe’s paws. “Look at that!” he exclaimed. 

“Smell it,” Brambleclaw added. 

Graystripe stared down and saw that Brackenfur had 
fetched him a scrap of rabbit fur clotted with blood. 
Stooping, he took a long sniff, as well as the scent of the 
rabbit itself, the fur was carrying another unmistakable tang. 

“WindClan!” he breathed out. “Please tell me you 
haven’t been hunting on their territory.” 

“We have not!” Brackenfur retorted indignantly, his 
golden-brown fur beginning to bush up. “We would never. 
No, we found this on our territory, not far from Fourtrees, 
along with more bits of the rabbit, with the stink of 
WindClan all over it.” 

“Those miserable rabbit-chasers have been stealing our 
prey,” Thornclaw snarled. 


Graystripe gave the fur another sniff. Thornclaw’s 
conclusion was obvious, and yet he wasn’t entirely happy 
about it. Prey was running well; there was no need for one 
Clan to steal from another. It doesnt make sense for 
WindClan to be crossing our border. 

Meanwhile, Ashfur, Mousefur, and Cloudtail, realizing 
that something was happening, had padded up and crowded 
around the bit of rabbit fur to get a sniff. Brackenfur 
repeated his explanation of how they had found it. 

“What are you going to do?” Ashfur asked, turning 
expectantly to Graystripe, a challenging look in his blue 
eyes. 

“Pm... not sure.” Graystripe would have preferred time 
to think things over, instead of being put on the spot like 
this. It was one of the most difficult things about being the 
acting Clan leader. He knew Firestar would know precisely 
what to say in the moment .. . but he was also convinced 
that Firestar wouldn’t want to start any trouble with 
WindClan unless he was certain that ThunderClan was in 
the right. 

And ifI make the wrong decision, Ashfur and the others 
will say it proves I’m not fit to lead the Clan. 

“Well, make your mind up,” Mousefur snapped. “You’re 
surely not going to let WindClan get away with this!” 

Let WindClan get away with this? The brown she-cat’s 
demand echoed in Graystripe’s mind while he paused to 


think, acutely aware of his warriors gazing at him with a 
mixture of impatience and accusation. “This might not be as 
bad as we think,” he meowed at last. “Maybe this was a 
WindClan rabbit, and one of their warriors chased it over the 
border. Okay, they shouldn’t have done that, but it’s not as 
bad as deliberately coming to our territory to steal.” 

“So you’re going to do nothing?” Cloudtail asked him, 
his white pelt fluffing up in annoyance. 

Graystripe stifled a sigh. Cinderpelt may have stopped 
the argument, but these cats really havent changed their 
minds. How сап I decide what to do when they re 
continually nagging? 

“No,” he responded, forcing himself to remain calm. He 
realized now that patience was one of the most important 
qualities of a good leader. “But I'm not going to stir up 
trouble with WindClan over what might be just one minor 
incident. Instead, we”ll step up the patrols on the WindClan 
border. If we find anything else, we'll discuss this again.” 

Ashfur let out a snort and turned away toward the fresh- 
kill pile, flipping his tail at Graystripe as he went. Cloudtail 
and Mousefur followed. Graystripe heard Cloudtail mutter, 
“Firestar would never have put up with this.” 

Ashfur grunted agreement. “Yeah, he may not be perfect, 
but he’d do something about this.” 

Graystripe felt his pelt getting hot with anger at his 
Clanmates’ disrespect, but he tried not to let it show. “Did 


you catch any prey?” he asked Brackenfur’s patrol. 

Brackenfur nodded. He was clearly unhappy, but at least 
he didn’t try to argue. “Yes, we buried it. We thought it was 
more important to let you know about WindClan right away. 
We’ll go and collect it now.” 

“Good,” Grays tripe meowed. “And you might freshen up 
the scent markers on the WindClan border while you’re at 
it.” 

Brackenfur gave him a brisk nod. “Sure, Graystripe.” He 
led Thomclaw and Brambleclaw across the camp and out 
through the gorse tunnel. 

Graystripe watched them go. Is Brackenfur disappointed 
in me, too? He looked a bit more cheerful when I mentioned 
the scent markers. Then he shook off the worry—/ have to 
be less sensitive if I'm going to be a good leader! He 
finished sending out the evening patrols, then headed for 
his nest in the warriors’ den; he didn’t feel he had the right 
to take over Firestar’s den underneath the Highrock. Curling 
up in his nest, he tried to rest and relax, but the tainted rabbit 
fur, the evidence against WindClan, and his trouble with his 
own Clanmates swirled around in his mind until he felt as if 
he were being sucked down into a dark pool. 

He had no idea whether he had been able to fall asleep. 
All he knew was that it seemed as if no time at all had passed 
before he heard yowling break out somewhere across the 
camp., the sound ofa cat in fear and anguish. 


Graystripe sprang to his paws. Whats going on? 


CHAPTER 4 


Se 


— Now — 


“What about a hunt?” Thornclaw suggested, raising his 
muzzle to sniff the air. “My belly thinks my throat’s torn 
out.” 

Graystripe and the other four cats who had left 
ThunderClan had halted in the shade of a massive oak tree, 
not far from their territory’s border with SkyClan. Tasting the 
air, Graystripe could pick out rich aromas of prey, as well as 
the reek of SkyClan’s scent markers, rising from a clump of 
elder bushes less than three fox-lengths away. 

“What, now?” Flywhisker responded to Thornclaw. “I 
thought we were supposed to be leaving ThunderClan. 
What’s the point of hanging around in our own territory?” 

Thornclaw let out a hiss of annoyance as Flipclaw and 
Snaptooth nodded agreement. “Listen,” he snapped, “and 
think about what leaving means. If you continue on in this 
direction and cross our border, you’ll soon come to the 
Twolegplace. Or you can go that way”—he gestured with 
his tail—““and cross SkyClan and ShadowClan territory. Your 
other option is to go back to the lake and cross WindClan 
territory to leave past the horseplace. Pick one. But good 
luck finding prey that you're allowed to catch.” 


The three younger cats exchanged frustrated glances. 
Flywhisker in particular was looking annoyed, and 
Graystripe stepped in before she could start a quarrel with 
the senior warrior. 

“Thornclaw’s right,” he meowed. “None of us know 
what we’re going to find when we leave the territory. It 
makes sense to be well fed and well rested before we cross 
the border.” 

“Tsuppose so,” Snaptooth muttered. 

“Okay, let’s do it,” Flywhisker agreed. “But I just hope 
we don’t meet any ThunderClan patrols. That would be so 
embarrassing!” 

As if her words had called it up, there was a rustling 
among the elder bushes, but it was a SkyClan patrol, not 
ThunderClan, that emerged. Hawkwing, the SkyClan deputy, 
was in the lead, followed by Tinycloud and Macgyver. 

“Greetings.” Flipclaw, who was standing closest to the 
border, gave a nervous dip of his head. 

Hawkwing responded with a curt nod. “Greetings. Might 
I ask why so many of you are hanging around so close to 
our border?” 

“We're not hanging around!” Flywhisker retorted, her 
neck fur fluffing up with indignation. 

Hawkwing let his yellow gaze travel slowly over the five 
cats. “It looks like it to me.” 

Graystripe saw Macgyver slide out his claws, while 


Tinycloud took a pace forward so that she stood exactly on 
the borderline. 

“It's okay,” he began. “We were just—” 

“Меге leaving Clan territories!” Snaptooth interrupted. 
“We're taking a break from ThunderClan, and we don’t want 
anything to do with SkyClan either, thank you very much!” 

Graystripe gazed in horror at the young golden tabby 
tom’s outspokenness, while Thornclaw snarled, “Mouse- 
brain!” His lips were drawn back to show his teeth as he 
glared at Snaptooth. 

“Really?” Hawkwing mewed coolly. “How interesting. 
Well, far be it from me to stand in your way. Just make sure 
that you don’t set paw over the SkyClan border on 
your... travels.” 

“We won't,” Graystripe assured him. Beckoning with his 
tail, he drew his Clanmates farther away, toward the roots of 
the oak tree. “You didn’t have to tell them that!” he growled 
into Snaptooth’s ear. 

“Sorry,” Snaptooth mumbled. 

““Sorry’ catches no prey,” Thornclaw hissed. 

The SkyClan patrol was moving away. Graystripe heard 
Tinycloud exclaim, “Wow! I never would have expected 
that!” 

“Yeah,” Macgyver agreed. “I knew things were bad in 
ThunderClan, but I didn’t realize they were that bad!” 

“And now every cat will know what we’re doing,” 


Thornclaw continued savagely as the SkyClan cats 
disappeared into the undergrowth. “Snaptooth, what have 
you got between your ears? Thistle-fluff?” 

Snaptooth didn’t respond, only stared at his paws and 
let his tail droop at the senior warrior’s scathing words. 

“Leave him alone,” Graystripe sighed. “The damage is 
done. Let’s hunt.” 

“Okay.” Thornclaw gave his pelt an ill-tempered shake. 
“Flipclaw, come with me.” Skirting the oak trunk, he plunged 
into the bushes; Flipclaw cast a rueful glance at his 
Clanmates, then followed him. 

“Meet back here when you’ve caught enough!” 
Graystripe called after him. 

Flipclaw waved his tail in acknowledgment before he 
disappeared into the undergrowth. 

“We’ll hunt together” Flywhisker declared to her 
brother, then added, “Graystripe, you can come with us if 
you like. Or maybe you’d rather rest, being an elder and all. 
We’ll bring you something tasty.” 

Her tone was so sweetly kind that it made Graystripe 
want to gag. “Yes, I think I might rest,” he responded, 
flopping down among the oak roots with an exaggerated 
sigh of exhaustion. “After all, my old bones soon get tired, 
and my old paws won’t carry me very far.” 

“Er... yeah ... right.” Flywhisker seemed to realize she 
had been less than tactful. 


Snaptooth gave her a shove, and the two young cats 
vanished around a bramble thicket. 

Graystripe had no intention of resting. As soon as the 
scents of his Clanmates had faded, he rose to his paws and 
headed off in a different direction. All his senses were alert 
for prey, though it was so long since he had needed to hunt 
that he was afraid he might have forgotten all his old skills. 

“Please, StarClan,” he murmured, not sure whether the 
spirits of his warrior ancestors would be able to hear his 
prayer, “let me catch something good. Let me show those 
young fluff-brains what’s what.” 

Graystripe was heading for a place where he had often 
hunted successfully in the past. The ground fell away into a 
steep slope covered by mossy boulders, and a small stream 
meandered around the bottom. Several rabbit burrows gaped 
among the rocks. Now, as Graystripe approached the top of 
the slope, he let himself drop so that his belly fur brushed 
the grass, and he crept forward cautiously, paw step by paw 
step. He was surprised at how quickly the long-disused 
movements came back to him. 

Checking that the breeze was blowing toward him, he 
tasted the air and picked up a strong scent of rabbit. 

Yes! 

As soon as he poked his head out of the cover of a large 
boulder on the lip of the slope, Graystripe spotted a rabbit 
down by the stream, drinking and then cleaning its face with 


its forepaws. A good, fat rabbit, with enough flesh on its 
bones to feed two or three cats at least. His jaws began to 
water at the very thought. 

Graystripe scanned the slope carefully, trying to work 
out a route through the boulders, then realized that in the 
time it would take him to reach the bottom, the rabbit could 
be alerted and dive to safety down one of the burrows. If he 
had been hunting with a patrol, he would have sent a couple 
of his Clanmates to circle around and do their best to cut off 
the prey’s retreat. 

Time for action, he told himself. 

Bunching his legs beneath him, Graystripe took off in a 
massive leap. His paws barely touched a boulder halfway 
down the slope before he pushed off again. His second leap 
landed him on top of the rabbit, which let out a startled 
squeal and went limp. 

“Thank you, StarClan, for this prey,” Graystripe meowed. 
Huge satisfaction surged through his body as he picked up 
his catch and headed back toward the meeting place. 

Imay be an elder, but I still know а thing or two. 


By the time Graystripe returned, the sun was going 
down, the slanting light among the trees beginning to turn 
scarlet. At the other side of the tiny clearing, near the 
abandoned Twoleg nest, Thornclaw and Flipclaw were 
giving themselves a thorough wash. Graystripe dropped his 
rabbit onto a meager fresh-kill pile between two gnarled 


roots of the oak tree and let every muscle in his body stretch 
and relax. He expected that Snaptooth and Flywhisker would 
soon be back from their own hunt. 

It was strange, making camp with these few cats instead 
of bedding down in the elders’ den. He knew that going on a 
“wander” was the right choice, and his successful hunt had 
given him extra confidence, but he still felt adrift, unsure of 
what it would take to make this a positive experience for 
himself and his Clan. It didn’t help that he had no idea where 
he meant to go on his wandering. For some reason, his mind 
kept returning to ThunderClan’s old territory in the forest. In 
some ways, that camp brought back painful memories—of 
Firestar, Cinderheart, Dustpelt, and countless other 
Clanmates who had gone to hunt with StarClan. But there 
were good things to recall, too. Perhaps that was where he 
should go—to see the old territory again? 

But thats mouse-brained, he thought. Its only because 
I’m remembering those times. The old territory wasn’t even 
there anymore. The Twolegs had destroyed it to make more 
Thunderpaths and Twoleg dens. At least they couldn’t 
destroy his memories. 

Silverstream . . . my beautiful Silverstream, he thought 
with a sigh. The RiverClan warrior had been his first 
love... something that, at the time, had made him question 
his loyalty to ThunderClan. When he’d lost her, he’d 
regained his devotion to ThunderClan. J hope she and 


Millie have had the chance to meet in StarClan, and that 
they те both happy. 

Thinking of Silverstream drew Graystripe’s memories 
back to Stormfur, his only surviving kit with the RiverClan 
queen. 

At least, I hope hes still alive, but I suppose I cant be 
sure. 

When Silverstream had died, Graystripe had briefly gone 
to RiverClan to raise their kits, Stormkit and Featherkit. He 
remembered how he had played with them in the RiverClan 
camp, always terrified when they ventured too near the 
water. They were so brave, and Iwas so proud of them! 

Now Stormfur had abandoned RiverClan to stay in the 
mountains with his mate, Brook Where Small Fish Swim, and 
the Tribe of Rushing Water. Graystripe hoped that Stormfur 
was far enough away from the Clans’ current crisis to be 
safe, but the more he thought about him, the more certain he 
became that he did know where he had to go next. 

Pll make my way to the Tribe and see my son. 

A tush of energy flooded through Graystripe, as if the 
idea had lit him up. He was sure that seeing his son again 
would help him decide where he wanted to be, and where he 
might belong. He would tell the others when Snaptooth and 
Flywhisker returned. 

Rustling in the undergrowth distracted Graystripe from 
his thoughts, and he looked up to see the two young 


warriors emerging from a clump of ferns. Snaptooth was 
carrying a thrush, and Flywhisker a blackbird. 

“What a feast!” Thornclaw meowed appreciatively. 
“Who caught that rabbit? It’s enormous!” 

Graystripe licked one forepaw and drew it over his ear. 
“That’s mine, actually.” He glanced at Flywhisker as he 
spoke; the young she-cat wouldn’t meet his gaze, ducking 
her head to give her chest fur a couple of embarrassed licks. 

Thornclaw and Flipclaw finished their washing and 
padded over, and the group sat down to eat. With so few of 
them, there was more than enough prey. Watching his 
younger Clanmates gulping down their share, Graystripe felt 
a strange sense of protectiveness. Would they want to visit 
the Tribe with him? Graystripe wasn’t sure, but he knew he 
would feel better if he could keep an eye on them— 
especially the younger warriors. 

I’m older, and StarClan knows I’m more sensible. I need 
to make sure they 're okay. 

“It's easier now that we're only hunting for ourselves,” 
Flywhisker commented, finishing her blackbird and swiping 
at a feather that was sticking to her nose. “In the Clan, we 
have to hunt for all the cats who can’t hunt for themselves, 
the queens and the elders апа...” She trailed off, flashing 
an awkward look at Graystripe, as if she had remembered 
once again that he had been one of those elders. “Well, this 
way is more manageable,” she finished. 


“Only because you’re young cats, and fit, and prey is 
plentiful,’ Graystripe pointed out. “But what if one of you 
were about to have kits, or injured? What about when you 're 
too old to hunt, one day? Or what about during leaf-bare? 
That’s one thing no cat can argue with—there’s strength in 
ThunderClan’s numbers.” 

Flipclaw cast a sidelong glance at Flywhisker. “If you 
were expecting kits,” he murmured, “Га make sure you were 
well fed.” 

Oh, so its like that. Graystripe felt a sinking in his belly 
as he saw Flywhisker’s hackles begin to rise. / never knew 
Flipclaw was padding after Flywhisker! 

Snaptooth prodded Flywhisker in the side. “Would you 
ever want to have kits with Flipclaw?” he asked his 
littermate. “Be honest with him. He’s looking at you like a fox 
looks at a rabbit!” 

Flipclaw hunched his shoulders, clearly uncomfortable. 
“I was just speaking generally,” he mumbled. “Pd help any 
queen who was expecting kits.” 

Flywhisker flicked an ear at her brother. “I don’t want 
kits at all right now—not with everything ThunderClan is 
going through. But even if I did, Pm not interested in you 
that way, Flipclaw. You’re not my type.” She aimed an 
apologetic glance at Flipclaw, then looked away. 

Flipclaw looked utterly crushed. Graystripe caught 
Thornclaw’s eye and could tell that the senior warrior was as 


unpleasantly surprised as he felt. Just what we need on this 
trip—a thwarted romance. Graystripe could imagine how 
Flipclaw must be stinging at the rejection, but worse, he was 
thinking ahead to how these young warriors would get 
along for the remainder of their journey. Would Flipclaw 
accept Flywhisker’s rejection gracefully? Or would he 
dissolve into a puddle of misery? The last thing I want is to 
end up looking after a lovesick young tom! 

“Now that we can go anywhere,” Flipclaw began after a 
moment’s silence, “we should find a new territory all of our 
own. That would be wonderful—we’d be much safer than 
we are now, in ThunderClan, and you’d be so comfortable 
there, Flywhisker. Maybe one day you'd . . . feel differently 
about things?” 

Not gracefully accepting it, then, Graystripe thought, 
feeling sorry for the young warrior. Go on, keep trying to 
push this boulder. Shes going to crush you like a bug! 

Flywhisker twitched her whiskers dismissively. “That 
sounds great, Flipclaw, but unfortunately, we can’t all live 
inside your imagination. Only you can live there.” 

Graystripe ducked his head against the fur of his chest, 
stifling a chuckle. Oof Snaptooth let out a snort of laughter; 
turning on him with an irritable twitch of his tail, Flipclaw 
meowed, “Well, tellus what you think we should do.” 

Clearly at a loss for words, Snaptooth ducked his head 
awkwardly. “We”re traveling, агеп we?” he muttered at last. 


Graystripe bit back a sharp comment. Snaptooth might 
have laughed at Flipclaw, but clearly the golden tabby tom 
had no better idea about where they should go. He was 
about to suggest they travel to visit the Tribe when 
Flywhisker made an announcement. “I’ve often wondered 
what it would be like to be a kittypet.” 

Both young toms tumed shocked gazes on her. 
Graystripe felt mildly surprised that the young she-cat would 
ever think about living with Twolegs, but he had known 
several cats who had made the same decision, and he had 
lived as a kittypet for a time himself. It had been something 
of an accident—he’d gotten captured by Twolegs while 
trying to rescue other cats—and while that kind of life 
hadn’t been for him, it had introduced him to his beloved 
mate Millie. J can understand why some cats prefer the soft 
life of a kittypet. It certainly was an easier life than a Clan 
cat’s, at times. 

“Really?” Snaptooth asked. “You’d give up your 
freedom?” 

“Maybe not,” Flywhisker responded, giving her paw a 
lick and drawing it slowly over her ear. “Not yet, anyway. 
But kittypets always know where their food is coming from, 
and they have somewhere warm to sleep every night. It 
doesn’t sound that bad!” 

“Of course it’s bad!” Snaptooth gave his tail an irritated 
lash. “And only a mouse-brain would think it wasn’t.” 


“Mouse-brain yourself!” Flywhisker retorted. 

As she finished speaking, Thornclaw let out an irritated 
snort. “I didn’t leave the camp to listen to more petty 
squabbles,” he meowed. “I left to think about what I want to 
do next. I left the Clan so that I could be alone.” Rising to his 
paws, he added, “Maybe ГЇЇ see you all again if I decide to 
retum to the Clan. Or maybe we’ll meet in Flipclaw’s 
imaginary territory. But ’mnot going to stay here and waste 
my time arguing. Pm off.” 

“Right now?” Graystripe asked, surprised. He admitted 
to himself that he had taken it for granted that Thornclaw 
would help him deal with the younger, less experienced 
warriors. He didn’t want to be left with the sole 
responsibility for them, negotiating their arguments and 
insults. Thats not what I had in mind for my wander! It 
certainly wouldn’t leave him much time to think. “Thornclaw, 
I—” he began, reluctant to let his Clanmate to leave without 
a proper good-bye. 

“Yes, right now,” Thornclaw interrupted. With a swish of 
his tail he stalked off across the clearing and vanished into 
the undergrowth. 

Well, then. 

Graystripe watched him go, anxiety rising in his belly. He 
was happy to guide the younger cats for the first couple of 
days of their wandering, but he didn’t want to be left in 
charge, as if he were the leader of some new, tiny Clan. The 


young warriors all seemed disconcerted by Thornclaw’s 
abrupt departure, and they were casting hopeful glances at 
Graystripe. 

“T never thought Thornclaw would leave, just like that,” 
Flywhisker complained, blinking in bewilderment as she 
stared at the spot where the golden-brown tabby had 
disappeared. 

Me neither, thought Graystripe. But here we are. 

“What should we do next?” Flipclaw asked. He was 
staring directly at Graystripe. 

Graystripe found it hard to reply. Their trust and reliance 
were familiar to Graystripe, but they weren’t what he needed 
now. Even if I tried to lead them, it wouldnt work out for 
any of us. I already came close to losing the Clan once; 1 
dont want to risk that again. 

They had only one moon to decide whether they wanted 
to come back. And he could so easily get stuck here close to 
the lake, hovering just outside the ThunderClan border and 
mediating the younger cats’ fights, while his paws were 
tugging at him to travel farther away. And he wanted to see 
Stormfur again. 

“Thornclaw made the right decision,” he told the others. 
“For himself, at least. He didn’t leave ThunderClan to start a 
new Clan ofhis own.” 

“Then why did he leave?” Snaptooth asked. “And why 
did you?” 


“I can’t answer for Thornclaw,” Graystripe replied, 
lapsing into a moment’s thoughtful silence. “But I think what 
I need is to revisit my past,” he continued eventually, “so 
that I can make the right decision about my future. I’m going 
to travel into the mountains, to visit the Tribe of Rushing 
Water and see my son Stormfur.” 

“What?” Flipclaw asked, his eyes widening in shock. 

Snaptooth and Flywhisker exchanged a look of 
confusion. “You want to go all that way?” Flywhisker 
meowed. 

While the younger cats were speaking, Graystripe’s 
anxiety was driven out by a sense of cool, clear certainty. “I 
do,” he murmured. And he knew it was right. 

This is what I’m supposed to do. Revisiting my past will 
help me understand where I need to spend my future. 


CHAPTER 5 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe pushed his way through the branches of the 
warriors’ den and out into the clearing. Night had fallen; the 
spirits of StarClan glittered in an indigo sky. A warm breeze 
was wafting across the camp, but Graystripe felt chilled from 
ears to tail-tip at the agonized shrieks that were coming from 
the nursery. 

Thats Brightheart! he thought, struggling to suppress 
panic. She must be kitting. 

He bounded across the camp, but when he reached the 
entrance to the nursery he halted, as though frost had 
suddenly clamped his paws to the ground. Brightheart’s 
cries of distress were more than he could bear. It was utterly 
beyond him to make himself move closer and see her in pain 
and fear. 

Shes going to die—just like Silverstream. . . . 

Graystripe couldn’t stop his mind flashing back to that 
terrible day when he’d lost his mate. He could see 
Silvers tream lying beside the river, fighting to give birth. The 
reek of blood was in his throat, and her cries, like 
Brightheart’s, still pierced his ears. 

And there was nothing I could do to help her... . 


The sight of Cinderpelt’s head, popping out of the 
nursery entrance, dragged Graystripe back to the present. 
Cloudtail, Brightheart’s mate, squeezed past her into the 
open. 

“You want juniper berries, right?” he asked the medicine 
cat. “And chervil?” 

“Yes, chervil root, not the leaves,” Cinderpelt told him. 
“You remember what it looks like?” 

“Sure I do.” Cloudtail tossed the words over his 
shoulder, already racing across the camp toward the 
medicine cat’s den. 

“Graystripe,” Cinderpelt meowed, seeming to notice him 
for the first time. “Are you okay? You’re shaking like an 
aspen leaf.” 

Graystripe couldn’t control his trembling, and fear was 
gripping him so tightly that at first he couldn’t speak. Stop 
this, you stupid furball, he told himself. This is Brightheart, 
not Silverstream. And Brightheart is in the nursery, with the 
whole Clan ready to help her—not giving birth in a hollow 
beside the river. He tried to convince himself that the same 
thing wouldn’t happen, that he needed to step up like a 
leader, just as Firestar would for the cats in his Clan. J need 
to becalm.... 

“Pm fine,” he managed to choke out at last. “Is she all 
right?” 

“She will be,” Cinderpelt assured him. “She’s making 


good progress with her kitting.” 

“Will it take much longer?” Graystripe didn’t know how 
long any she-cat could go on suffering agony and stress like 
Brightheart’s. How can they stand it? Brightheart, 
Silverstream ... all the mother cats. They те all so brave! 

“Гуе no idea,” Cinderpelt replied crisply. “It takes as 
long as it takes. And Га better get back to her, not stand 
here gossiping with you. You can come in if you like.” 

Graystripe hesitated, trying to summon up courage, until 
Cloudtail raced back from Cinderpelt’s den with the herbs 
she had asked for As he slipped inside the nursery, 
Graystripe braced himself and dared to poke his head in 
through the entrance. 

In the dim light from chinks in the nursery roof he could 
make out Brightheart lying on a bed of moss and bracken. 
Ferncloud was sitting beside her head, gently licking her 
ears. Ferncloud’s kits, Spiderkit and Shrewkit, were huddled 
together in a deep nest of moss, watching everything with 
wide, scared eyes. 

Cloudtail dropped the herbs in front of Cinderpelt, his 
white pelt glimmering in the shadows. “What’s happening?” 
he demanded. “Why aren’t the kits coming yet?” 

Whatever Cinderpelt replied was lost as Brightheart let 
out another earsplitting screech. Her body convulsed; all 
four of her legs stretched out stiffly. Graystripe shut his 
eyes, the smell of blood threatening to overwhelm him. His 


heart was pounding as if he had run all the way to Fourtrees 
and back; he wanted to hide himself somewhere far away 
from the wailing of the laboring queen. 

Then silence fell, and in the silence Graystripe could hear 
the soft mewling of a kit. It was followed by Cloudtail’s 
quivering meow, so different from the usual loud voice of the 
wayward warrior. 

“Oh, Brightheart, look! She's so beautiful... .” 

Brightheart murmured something Graystripe couldn't 
make out. 

Daring to open his eyes, Graystripe saw a tiny white kit 
nuzzling into Brightheart’s belly. There was some blood 
staining the moss, but not nearly as much as when 
Silverstream had died. And Brightheart looked nothing like 
Silverstream: Her face showed her pain and exhaustion, but 
her one good eye was glowing with happiness. 

“Well done, Brightheart.” Cinderpelt’s voice was full of 
satisfaction. “You did it! There’s only one kit, so it’s all over, 
and you’re going to be okay.” 

Brightheart curled herself around to lick her kit’s head, 
while Cloudtail looked so proud that he might burst. 

What should I say? Graystripe wondered. He’d been so 
busy panicking that Brightheart would end up like 
Silverstream, he hadn’t planned any sort of “welcome to the 
Clan” speech for the newest ThunderClan member. Firestar 
always seemed to know what to say at these moments. 


Okay, what would Firestar say? Keep it simple! At last 
Graystripe felt his heart settle down to a normal speed. 
“Welcome to ThunderClan, little kit,” he mewed. “And as for 
you, Brightheart, congratulations! Good job!” 

Brightheart dipped her head toward him wearily, then 
went back to licking her kit; Cloudtail settled down beside 
her, stretching his tail protectively over her shoulders. Nice 
job, Graystripe, Graystripe praised himself, withdrawing 
from the nursery to give the little family some space. New 
ThunderClan kit welcomed! 

Shrewkit’s voice, raised in excitement, followed him into 
the open. “Can we play with her?” 

“No, she’s too little,” Ferncloud told him gently. “Wait a 
few days, and then you can all play together.” 

“Aw, that’s like forever!” Spiderkit exclaimed. 

Stifling a mrrow of laughter, Graystripe straightened up 
and tumed around, to see that most of the Clan was 
standing in a loose semicircle a few tail-lengths away. He 
realized that he wasn’t the only cat to have been roused by 
Brightheart’s caterwauling. 

Graystripe stepped forward. “Brightheart has a kit,” he 
announced. “A new member of ThunderClan. And she and 
the kit are doing well.” 

Purrs and murmurs of delight greeted his news, as his 
Clanmates restrained their usual yowls of acclamation so as 
not to disturb the new mother and her kit. A wave of Clan 


pride washed over Graystripe at the thought that, even if 
nothing else happened while he was temporary leader, 
ThunderClan had already gained a future warrior and not 
lost a queen. 

But his pride was immediately followed by a wave of 
self-doubt. Firestar was always ready to help a queen with 
her kitting. But I didnt do anything—I was too lost in my 
own fears to help. Graystripe could only wish that he were 
as capable and competent as Firestar. Or at least as 
competent as he believes Iam. Surely he wouldnt have put 
me in charge if he knew I would become so anxious about 
each decision a leader makes. But this thought didn’t make 
Graystripe feel any better. J get anxious because this doesnt 
come as easily to me as it does to Firestar. Firestar wouldnt 
have panicked. 

Graystripe thought of Silverstream again, and his heart 
ached as if it would crack in two. Gazing up at the glittering 
stars, he hoped that one of them was Silverstream, looking 
down on him from StarClan. 

І hope she can see Brightheart with her new kit, and 1 
hope it makes her happy. 


“Ashfur, I would like you to lead a patrol out toward 
Snakerocks,” Graystripe meowed. “No cat has hunted there 
for a few days.” 

It was the moming after Brightheart’s kitting, and 
Graystripe thought he could feel a new sense of optimism in 


the camp. Most of the warriors had already paid a visit to the 
nursery to greet the new arrival, and Cloudtail was looking 
as proud as ifhe had sprouted an extra tail. 

“Sure, Graystripe,” Ashfur agreed. “Who should I take 
with me?” 

Before Graystripe could reply, movement at the end of 
the gorse tunnel caught his attention. Thornclaw appeared, 
with his apprentice, Sootpaw, following hard on his paws, 
and Brambleclaw a little way behind. Graystripe let his gaze 
travel from Thornclaw to Sootpaw, and then to Brambleclaw, 
noticing that no cat was carrying any prey. 

Uneasiness pricked at Graystripe’s pelt. Theirs was the 
first hunting patrol he had sent out that morning, not long 
before; why had they come back before they had caught 
anything? 

“What happened?” he asked as the three cats bounded 
across the camp to where Graystripe and Ashfur were 
standing outside the warriors’ den. 

“WindClan happened,’ Thomclaw replied grimly. 
“Again.” 

Graystripe felt the fur on his shoulders begin to rise. 
Great—so I’m going to have to deal with this after all. “Tell 
me,” he meowed. 

“We headed up toward Fourtrees, and we were still way 
inside our own territory when we picked up WindClan’s 
scent,” Thornclaw told him. 


“We came across a place where the undergrowth was 
tom up and there was blood spattered all around,” 
Brambleclaw added. The young warrior’s amber eyes were 
worried. “It looked like the work of at least two different cats, 
maybe three. And there was a strong scent of squirrel, and 
some tufts of squirrel fur.” 

Ashfur lashed his tail. “Now will you do something?” he 
challenged Graystripe. 

Pushing down his irritation, Graystripe raced across the 
camp and sprang onto the top of the Highrock. “Let all cats 
old enough to catch their own prey join here beneath the 
Highrock for a Clan meeting!” he yowled. 

He stood waiting while Cinderpelt emerged from the 
medicine cats’ den and padded over to sit beside the 
Highrock. Speckletail and the other elders slipped out of 
their den by the fallen tree and sat just outside it in a cluster. 
Cloudtail appeared, too, to sit at the entrance to the nursery, 
though Brightheart remained inside with her new kit. A 
moment later Ferncloud came to join him, with her two kits, 
Shrewkit and Spiderkit, peering out curiously from behind 
her. Rainpaw and Sorrelpaw, the other two apprentices, 
scrambled out of their den and scurried across to their 
littermate, Sootpaw, to begin questioning him eagerly about 
what had happened. Dustpelt drew up behind Sorrelpaw, 
who was temporarily his apprentice while Sandstorm was 
gone, and lashed his tail. “Quiet, you three, or we won’t be 


able to hear what Graystripe tells us.” 

The apprentices quieted, Sorrelpaw pouting a bit. She 
must miss Sandstorm, Graystripe thought. 

As the Clan assembled, Graystripe realized that the dawn 
patrol hadn’t yet returned, but he decided this was too 
important to delay. “Thornclaw, tell the Clan what you just 
saw,” he meowed. 

Thomclaw stood at the base of the Highrock and faced 
the Clan. “WindClan has been stealing prey again,” he 
announced. He went on to repeat his description of what he 
and his patrol had found. “There’s no excuse this time,” he 
finished. “They were too far inside our territory for the prey 
to have crossed the border from WindClan.” 

Brambleclaw nodded agreement. “Squirrels don’t live on 
WindClan territory. It was ThunderClan prey,” he confirmed. 
“And it clearly wasn’t an accident. It was a WindClan raid.” 

But as Graystripe listened to the story for the second 
time, he still couldn’t shake his suspicion that it wasn’t as 
simple as the evidence might suggest. The weather was still 
good, and prey was running well; WindClan should have 
had no need to steal prey from another Clan. Why instigate 
a conflict when they didn’t have to? 

There has to be some other reason, he thought. [fit were 
ShadowClan, I could believe Blackstar was deliberately 
trying to start trouble, but Tallstar has never been that kind 
of cat. 


“So what are we going to do?” Ashfur asked when 
Thornclaw and Brambleclaw had finished speaking. 

“You have to confront Tallstar,” Cloudtail called from 
across the camp. “Once might have been a mistake, but 
there’s no excuse now.” 

“Everything would be easier if Dustpelt were deputy,” 
Ashfur added. 

Oh, dont start that again! Graystripe thought in 
annoyance. I thought Cinderpelt settled it the other day. 
Then he began to wonder. Will Ashfur still be pushing for 
Dustpelt to take over as deputy, even after Firestar 5 
return? 

Glancing around, he couldn’t see the brown tabby 
warrior in camp, then remembered that he was leading the 
border patrol with Mousefur and Brackenfur. He had taken 
no part in the previous argument, either, because he had 
been on watch. 

Does he even know what Ashfur is saying? Graystripe 
asked himself. J dont particularly like Dustpelt, but I never 
expected him to undermine me like this. Though he and 
Ashfur have always been close. Dustpelt had been Ashfur’s 
mentor. 

“Hmm... ,” he muttered to himself. “Dustpelt and I will 
have to have a talk.” 

But this was not the time, Graystripe realized, as 
Thornclaw began to speak again. Shaking his pelt irritably to 


get rid of the unwelcome thoughts, he tried to concentrate 
on what his Clanmate was saying. 

“Come on, Graystripe! Don’t stand there like a frozen 
rabbit—you have to do something!” 

Yowls of agreement came from the assembled cats. 
Graystripe gazed down at the blazing eyes and lashing tails 
of his Clanmates, their bristling fur and claws ready to sink 
into WindClan pelts. He felt uneasy at the prospect of 
confronting Tallstar, who was a far more experienced and 
capable leader. He would have preferred to go away 
somewhere quiet and think things out, perhaps to discuss 
the problem with Cinderpelt. But there was no time for that 
now: His Clan was clearly hungry for him to take action. 

“Keep your fur on,” he meowed when the yowling had 
died away and he could make himself heard. “I can’t just go 
stomping into WindClan’s camp and tell Tallstar his Clan is a 
bunch of thieves.” 

“Why not?” One-eye snapped from where she sat with 
the other elders. “It’s what they are.” 

“Because that’s a job for a Clan leader,’ Graystripe 
retorted. “IfI do it, Tallstar is going to start wondering where 
Firestar is. It’s hard enough pretending that he’s still here 
without putting myself in a position where Tallstar would 
expect to see Firestar.” 

“But if you dont go,” Brambleclaw mewed hesitantly, as 
if he was nervous about voicing his thoughts in a 


discussion with senior warriors, “they’ll still wonder where 
Firestar is. Because Firestar wouldn’t let this go.” 

Graystripe felt a flicker of frustration at the realization 
that he couldn’t get out of the conflict as easily as that. 
“You’re right, he wouldn’t.” He gave the young warrior a 
nod ofrespect. Thats a bright young cat. He'll go far in the 
Clan. 

But Graystripe still didn’t know what he should do. 
Something about WindClan’s “theft” still didn’t feel right to 
him. And even if he accepted that the other Clan had stolen 
prey, how could he warn WindClan to stay off ThunderClan 
territory without risking giving away that Firestar had gone 
on a journey? 

“Have you thought that maybe WindClan is trying this 
because somehow they’ve already guessed that Firestar 
isn’t here?” Thornclaw asked. 

“Yeah, they think they can get away with it,” Ashfur 
growled in agreement. “And it’s starting to look like they’re 
right.” 

Graystripe ignored the insult. He felt it was quite likely 
that if WindClan had discovered Firestar’s absence, they 
might try to take advantage, but it still didn’t help him decide 
what to do. He glanced down at Cinderpelt, who was looking 
up at him, her blue eyes bright. “Has StarClan shown you 
anything about this?” he asked her, hoping that she might 
be able to show hima way forward. 


The medicine cat shook her head. “Nothing. 
Although . . .” Her eyes clouded a little with anxiety. “The 
signs are hard to read. When I try to look ahead, I see only 
shadows.” 

Thanks, thats a big help, Graystripe thought. J should 
know better than to expect clear answers from StarClan. 

His Clanmates were muttering among themselves now, 
casting unfriendly glances up at him. Graystripe knew that 
within moments he would have to commit himself to some 
course of action, or he would lose their respect and their 
cooperation for good. 

And Icant say I blame them. A Clan leader ought to be 
decisive. 

He was gathering himself to speak, still not sure what 
words would come out of his mouth, when a sharp yowl 
came from the direction of the gorse tunnel. Mousefur, who 
had been part of the border patrol, appeared and raced 
across the camp to the Highrock. The Clan’s grumbling died 
into silence as every cat turned to stare at her. 

“What’s the matter?” Graystripe asked, his pelt prickling 
once more with apprehension. “Is it WindClan?” 

Mousefur paused for a moment, her chest heaving. “No, 
it’s ShadowClan. Russetfur and Rowanclaw came up to us 
while we were patrolling the border,” she explained at last. 
“They want to speak to Firestar.” 

What, now? Graystripe scraped his claws on the hard 


surface of the Highrock as tension rushed through him from 
ears to tail-tip. Is there anything else that can go wrong? 


CHAPTER 6 


Se 


— Now — 


The little group of wandering cats drew close to the 
ThunderClan border and the unclaimed forest that lay 
beyond. The dawn chill was still in the air, and the rising sun 
had not yet bumed the dew from the grass. The younger 
cats still hadn’t decided yet if they would go with Graystripe 
to visit the Tribe in the mountains. He was already 
thoroughly tired of this aimless wandering around the forest. 

“We should hunt again before we leave ThunderClan 
territory,” Flywhisker suggested. 

She sounded nervous, and the two younger toms 
seemed to share her misgivings, casting glances back in the 
direction of the ThunderClan camp. On the day before, full 
of excitement at the step they had taken by announcing that 
they would leave the Clan, they had been eager to cross the 
border. Now, Graystripe guessed, reality was beginning to 
sink in. 

Graystripe bristled a little. He felt that he had wasted 
enough time taking care of these inexperienced cats. / have 
only a moon to make my decision. If I’m leaving, I want to 
be gone. 

But then, looking at his companions’ wide eyes and 


twitching whiskers, his heart softened. He didn’t think that 
any of the others had ever been outside Clan territory 
before. They had all been born beside the lake, and they 
didn’t know that the woods beyond ThunderClan’s border 
markers ran just as richly with prey as the familiar land inside 
their territory. 

Graystripe reflected that when he was Flywhisker and 
Snaptooth’s age, he rarely left ThunderClan’s territory back 
in the old forest. Perhaps he’d make the occasional trip to 
the Twolegplace or to Ravenpaw and Barley’s farm. But he 
wouldn’t have wandered farther if he hadn’t been forced to. 
Certainly not when he was as young as Flipclaw. Even 
though leaving the Clan had been their decision, maybe the 
younger cats needed a little longer before they crossed the 
border into the unknown. 

“Good idea, Flywhisker,” he meowed. “Let’s hunt.” 

The young she-cat visibly relaxed at his agreement, and 
Graystripe felt satisfied that he had made the right decision. 

All four cats spread out into the surrounding 
undergrowth. Graystripe’s spirits lifted as he caught the 
scent of vole. Before he left the camp, he hadn’t hunted in 
quite some time; becoming an elder meant that the 
apprentices brought him his food. Graystripe appreciated 
that, but it felt better to catch his own. Since he had caught 
the rabbit the previous day, the familiar actions had come 
back to himas ifhe still spent every day stalking prey. 


He spotted the vole slipping through the stems of long 
grass and dropped into the hunter’s crouch. Paw step by 
paw step, he crept up on his prey, but just as he was about 
to pounce, a startled yowl came from one of the other cats. 

“Dogs!” 

The vole vanished. 

“Fox dung!” Graystripe hissed, turning to see Snaptooth 
and the others peering through the branches of a nearby 
hazel bush. Hurrying to their side, he picked up the strong 
scent of the nearby dogs. He could hear them snuffling 
around on the other side of the bush. He thrust Snaptooth 
aside to peer through the hazel leaves; his heart lurched as 
he saw the dogs, one wiry and brown, the other bigger, with 
a shaggy white pelt. They were pushing their noses into 
every hole and under every root, but they clearly hadn’t 
scented the cats yet. 

“Back away, really quietly,” he murmured to the others. 

But before they had managed to retreat more than a few 
paw steps, the smaller dog seemed to scent them. Its head 
tilted back, its muzzle twitching and nostrils flaring. With a 
flurry of high-pitched barks, it launched itself at the cats, its 
companion lolloping behind it. 

“Scatter!” Graystripe screeched. “Run!” 

Instantly the younger cats raced off in different 
directions. Graystripe hung back for a moment, letting out a 
defiant yowl to draw the dogs’ attention. When the lead dog 


veered toward him, he spun around and sprinted for the 
nearest tree, hurling himself up the trunk until he could 
scramble onto a branch. 

“Great StarClan!” he gasped. “I’mtoo old for this!” 

Looking down, he saw the two dogs whining and 
sniffing at the bottom of his tree. The white dog reared up 
on its hind paws, scrabbling with its forepaws at the tree 
trunk, but for all its efforts it couldn’t climb any higher. 

“Get lost, flea-pelts!” Graystripe snarled. 

Anxiously, he looked around to see what had happened 
to his Clanmates. Flywhisker had climbed, too, and was 
balancing precariously on the lowest branch of an elder 
sapling. Flipclaw was clinging to the ivy growing up a 
nearby oak tree, but his weight was gradually tearing the 
tendrils away from the trunk, so that the ivy slowly sagged 
closer and closer to the ground. At first Graystripe couldn’t 
see Snaptooth at all, until he spotted his head poking out of 
a bramble thicket a few tail-lengths away. None of the young 
cats were in a secure enough position to be safe if the dogs 
spotted them, and all three of them looked frozen with terror. 

The dogs didn’t seem likely to go away anytime soon, 
either. Graystripe watched as the white dog sat down and 
started scratching at its pelt, while its brown companion 
stood staring up at Graystripe, its tongue lolling and its jaws 
open to show a mouthful of gleaming teeth. 

How do we get out of this mess? Graystripe wondered. 


Looking around him, through the trees, he couldn’t see 
any obvious way of escape. He wondered if he could leap 
down and lead the dogs farther into the forest, away from 
his Clanmates, but he knew he wouldn’t have much of a 
head start. And he worried that he’d tire before he could 
climb another tree to safety. 

Then they'd catch me, he added to himself, imagining the 
dogs leaping on him, bringing him down. He shuddered at 
the thought of those teeth slicing through his flesh. 

“Graystripe, what can we do?” Flywhisker called to him. 
She looked as if she was about to lose her balance. The thin 
branch where she crouched was bouncing under her weight, 
and Graystripe worried she would pitch down into the 
bracken at any moment. 

“Just hang on!” he called out to her. 

He would have to run for it. He was bracing himself to 
jump when he heard paw steps approaching through the 
trees: the heavy, clumping noise of Twolegs. Pricking his 
ears, he made out two different voices, and a moment later a 
pair of Twolegs, a male and a female, appeared from behind 
the bramble thicket. 

As soon as he spotted the dogs, the male Twoleg called 
out; Graystripe thought he sounded annoyed. The dogs 
hesitated, then padded toward the Twolegs with obvious 
reluctance, casting glances back at Graystripe as they went. 

The Twolegs took out vines and fastened them to the 


dogs’ collars, then led the dogs away. The dogs were still 
whining and tugging, but eventually the whole group 
vanished and their scents began to fade. Graystripe huffed 
out a long breath of relief. 

He jumped down and beckoned to his Clanmates with a 
swish of his tail. Flywhisker and Flipclaw let themselves 
drop to the ground and joined him, while Snaptooth dragged 
himself out of the bramble thicket, hissing in annoyance as 
the thorns caught in his fur. 

“Are you all okay?” Graystripe asked. Part of him took in 
the young warriors’ wide eyes and quivering limbs and felt 
that they’d better toughen up if they were going to make it 
as loners. But another part—the part that had mentored 
countless apprentices—wanted to soothe their fears, help 
them learn to be smarter next time. That was how Clanmates 
looked out for one another. 

When all three nodded, he continued, “Good. Then we’d 
better finish our hunt.” 


Sunhigh was just past by the time the cats had hunted 
and filled their bellies with prey. All three younger warriors 
seemed inclined to curl up and go to sleep on a warm stretch 
of moss, but every hair on Graystripe’s pelt was telling him 
that the time had come to go. 

But can I really leave my Clanmates? he asked himself, 
the terrifying encounter with the dogs still vivid in his mind. 
The young cats seemed to have forgotten that he had 


announced his intention to visit the Tribe. He took a deep 
breath, bracing himself. 

“This is where I leave you,” he announced, rising to his 
paws. “I’m sorry, but if I go now, I can make a good start 
toward the mountains before it gets dark.” 

Flywhisker and Snaptooth exchanged an uncertain 
glance. “But—” Flywhisker began, and broke off. Flipclaw 
was looking doubtful, too. He glanced from Flywhisker and 
Snaptooth back to Graystripe. 

For a moment, Graystripe wavered. Will they be okay? 
Should I leave them like this, when Thornclaw is already 
gone? 

But Flipclaw, Graystripe considered, had been the first 
cat to announce that he was leaving ThunderClan. He had 
been prepared to go out on his own before any cat had 
offered to accompany him. These cats may be young, 
Graystripe told himself, but they’re old enough to make 
their own decisions and live with the consequences. 

And that was a good thing, because Graystripe’s 
yearning to visit the Tribe, and see his son again, was too 
strong to ignore any longer. 

“T told you where I was going,” he reminded the others 
gently. “This is important to me. As I’ve said, you’re 
welcome to come with me if you want to,” he added, when 
no cat responded. “It would be a chance to have an 
adventure. See the mountains. Experience a different way of 





living than we have in the Clans.” 

His suggestion was met with silence. Graystripe wasn’t 
sure what answer he’d expected, but he was disappointed 
when none of his young Clanmates seemed excited by his 
offer. 

“It’s good of you to suggest it,” Snaptooth mewed 
finally, with a polite dip of his head. “But I’m not sure 
Flywhisker and I want to go so far.” 

Flywhisker nodded in agreement. “We haven’t even left 
Clan territory yet and we’ve already almost been killed by 
dogs! And the Tribe is such a long way away... .” 

“But we’ll—” Graystripe began. 

“I'm sure there’ll be more dogs and Twolegs on the way 
there,” Snaptooth continued, ignoring him. “And probably 
other things we don’t even know about, maybe even scarier, 
or harder to fight off. No, Flywhisker and I are going to stick 
close to Clan territory while we decide what to do. It’s just 
safer here.” 

All this while, Flipclaw hadn’t spoken; he just looked 
worried, and uncertain about what he would decide. 
Graystripe thought back to how Flywhisker had rejected him 
the night before, and wondered if the poor lovesick tom was 
going to keep following her, getting his heart broken over 
and over. Its his decision, but that will never make him 


happy. 
Graystripe let his glance flick from one cat to the next. He 


couldn’t help remembering how thrilled Hollyleaf, Lionblaze, 
and Jayfeather had been to travel to the mountains when the 
Tribe cats had come to ask for help. And they had only been 
apprentices at the time. 

I dont know whats come over young cats these 
days... . Then Graystripe stifled a snort of amusement. / 
sound like a grouchy old elder! 

But as he watched Flipclaw think it over, his amusement 
was replaced by sadness. Compared to these young cats, 1 
ат а grouchy old elder. He had lost his mate; he’d been 
exhausted by all the Clan troubles of the last few moons. All 
I can think about is how much I miss the old days—when 
things felt simpler. 

Then Graystripe remembered: He wasn’t the leader of 
these cats, and it was a long time since he had been Clan 
deputy. It was a relief to realize that it didn’t matter whether 
these warriors listened to him or not. It wasn’t his place to 
tell the younger cats what to do; they had the right to make 
up their own minds. And it wasn’t his job to protect them. 
They’d chosen to leave the safety of the Clan, the same as 
he had. What happened now was up to them. Besides, if 
they didn’t like it out on their own, they could always return 
to the Clan. 

“Okay,” he meowed. “It was only an idea. I hope ГЇЇ see 
you again, back in ThunderClan—if we all decide to return. 
If not, be safe, and take care of one another.” 


The three young cats dipped their heads awkwardly, as if 
they were feeling guilty about refusing to travel with him. 
“Good-bye,” Flywhisker responded. “May StarClan light 
your path, Graystripe.” 

At the mention of StarClan, Graystripe started, and he 
glanced back at the younger warriors to see whether the 
familiar parting words had struck them in the same awkward 
way. But it seemed that the reminder of StarClan’s absence 
hadn’t occurred to them. Just as well, he thought sadly. 

“And stay away fromdogs!” Snaptooth was adding. 

“Tl try my best. You too.” Graystripe swept his tail 
around in a gesture of farewell. “And good luck to all of 
you.” 

He tumed away and padded off through the trees, 
heading toward the lake and the border with WindClan. 
While he had a bittersweet feeling at the thought of leaving 
ThunderClan territory, not knowing whether he would 
retum, it was a relief to feel that at last he was really setting 
out on his wander. ГЇЇ go and think about what I really 
want, and when I do return—if I do return—I'll have more 
to offer my Clan. Though he was looking forward to seeing 
Stormfur again, it felt strange to be traveling alone. Even 
when he’d journeyed to find the Clans in their new home 
beside the lake, he and Millie had been together. 

I hope all four cats I started out with will be okay on 
their own, he thought with a sigh. Even if they weren’t his 


responsibility, they were his Clanmates . . . or they had been. 
He couldn’t help caring about them. 

But as he approached the stream that formed the border 
with WindClan, Graystripe heard the patter of paws behind 
him. Turning, he saw Flipclaw racing to catch up to him. 

“I want to come with you!” he panted. “I want to travel 
to the mountains and meet the Tribe. Besides,” he added, 
managing to catch his breath, “you could use some 
company. It’s dangerous outside Clan territory.” 

“It sure is,” Graystripe agreed, although he recoiled a bit 
at the suggestion that he was old or feeble enough to need 
protection. Still, he couldn’t help feeling a curl of affection 
for the younger warrior. He imagined that Flipclaw himself 
could use some company and kind words after Flywhisker 
had been so clear about how she felt about him—and how 
she didnt feel. Graystripe could remember what heartbreak 
felt like. He wouldn’t have wanted to stay with Flywhisker 
and her littermate, either. 

I cant cope with a whole Clans problems, he thought. 
One Clanmate is as much as I want right now. 

Splashing through the border stream, leaving 
ThunderClan’s territory behind them, he and Flipclaw 
padded on side by side. 


CHAPTER 7 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe stood frozen on the Highrock, his glance flicking 
to the end of the tunnel. He was prepared for the two 
ShadowClan cats to appear immediately, to find 
ThunderClan in the middle of a turbulent meeting and 
himself in the position of leader, with Firestar nowhere to be 
seen. 

“Did you bring them with you?” he asked. What will 1 
tell them? How will I explain Firestar 5 absence? 

Mousefur shook her head. “I ran on ahead to warn you. 
Dustpelt and Brackenfur are escorting themto the camp.” 

Thank StarClan! Graystripe felt himself sag with relief. / 
have a few moments to think. ... 

The Clan was silent now, still looking up at Graystripe 
and waiting for his decision. Graystripe tried to put the 
whole WindClan problem out of his mind and concentrate on 
how he should deal with the ShadowClan cats. 

“So what do we do?” Mousefur asked, shaking her 
brown pelt impatiently. 

Graystripe couldn’t see any alternative. He braced 
himself for yet more trouble. “Let them come into camp,” he 
replied. 


He waited until Mousefur had dived back into the gorse 
tunnel before turning back to his Clan. “Continue with your 
duties as usual,” he began. “Ashfur, gather your hunting 
patrol, but don’t leave yet. Apprentices, start cleaning out 
the elders’ den.” 

“About time,” Speckletail put in. 

Graystripe ignored her. “While they’re doing that, some 
of you elders might like to pay a visit to Brightheart. Or sit in 
the sun and share tongues. Cinderpelt, sort some herbs or 
something. This is a happy, busy camp, with nothing on our 
minds except our next piece of fresh-kill. And for StarClan’s 
sake,” he finished, “no cat mention any trouble with 
WindClan.” 

As his Clan hurried to obey his orders, Graystripe leaped 
down from the Highrock and padded forward into the center 
of the camp to wait for the ShadowClan cats. It wasn’t long 
before Mousefur reemerged from the tunnel followed by 
Russetfur, the dark ginger she-cat who was ShadowClan’s 
deputy, and Rowanclaw, a muscular ginger tom. Brackenfur 
and Dustpelt brought up the rear; both of them stayed close 
to the ShadowClan warriors as they headed across the camp 
to meet Graystripe. 

Russetfur gave Graystripe a brief nod as she halted in 
front of him. “Greetings,” she mewed. “We'd like to speak to 
Fires tar.” 

For a heartbeat, Graystripe wasn’t sure what to say. 


When Firestar had left, he had intended to tell the other 
Clans the truth: that StarClan had called Firestar away on a 
mission. But then at the next Gathering, when he’d taken 
Firestar’s place for the first time, it had seemed too 
dangerous to let themknow that the ThunderClan leader had 
left the forest completely, like an invitation for them to 
invade. So Graystripe had told them that his leader was sick. 
He regretted that decision now; how long could a strong cat 
stay sick? And what ifthey ask to visit Firestar in his den? 

“Well?” Russetfur tapped one paw impatiently. 

“Pmsorry,” Graystripe improvised swiftly, doing his best 
to seem cool and unconcerned. “Firestar is out of camp right 
now.” 

“We'll wait.” Rowanclaw sat down and wrapped his tail 
around his paws. “This is important.” 

Graystripe hesitated for a couple of heartbeats. He 
noticed that Cinderpelt had emerged from her den and had 
angled her ears toward the conversation, while pretending to 
be intent on laying out sprigs of marigold in a patch of 
sunlight. Ferncloud still sat at the entrance to the nursery, 
watching Shrewkit and Spiderkit playing with a ball of moss. 
Goldenflower and Frostfur ambled across from the elders’ 
den and paused to admire the kits. Ashfur slipped out of the 
warriors’ den with Brambleclaw and Thornclaw, but crossed 
the camp to stand close to Graystripe instead of leading his 
patrol out. 


Confident that his Clan was backing him up, Graystripe 
took a breath. “I’m ThunderClan’s deputy,” he pointed out. 
“You can tell me anything you want Firestar to know.” 

Russetfur and Rowanclaw exchanged an angry glance, 
their shoulder fur beginning to rise. A silent communication 
seemed to pass between them; then Russetfur gave a tiny 
nod. “Very well,” she meowed, giving her tail an irritated 
twitch. “I guess we can’t sit around the ThunderClan camp 
all day. We thought Firestar might like to know,” she 
continued, “that we’ve scented BloodClan at the edge of the 
Thunderpath not far from the Twolegplace, just opposite 
your territory.” 

Graystripe heard gasps of alarm from the ThunderClan 
warriors behind him. He felt his belly lurch, though he kept 
his gaze fixed steadily on Russetfur. There had been no sign 
of BloodClan for moons, not since Firestar had led the Clans 
to drive them out of the forest. Even so, it feels like we уе 
only just stopped checking over our shoulders. And now 
the vicious rogues have come sneaking back? 

“Of course you ShadowClan cats would be the first to 
scent BloodClan,” Cloudtail muttered, padding forward from 
the nursery. “Are you sure you’re not sheltering them on 
your own territory?” 

“T wouldn’t be at all surprised,” Dustpelt agreed, with a 
hostile stare at Russetfur and Rowanclaw. 

“Yeah, why should we trust you? It was Tigerstar who 


brought BloodClan to the forest,’ Mousefur added, her 
claws flexing as if she was ready to rake them across 
ShadowClan fur. 

Russetfur drew her lips back and let out a furious hiss, 
while Rowanclaw sprang to his paws, his shoulder fur 
bristling, and began to look around as if he was deciding 
which ThunderClan cat to attack first. 

“Why should we put up with this?” Russetfur asked. 
“We came to do you mange-pelts a favor!” 

“I know, and I’m sorry,” Graystripe responded with a 
polite dip of his head. “Our warriors are naturally worried at 
the thought of BloodClan returning, and perhaps that makes 
them too ready with their claws. Of course we’re grateful for 
the warning—aren’t we?” he added, with a stern look at his 
assembled Clanmates. 

A murmur of agreement followed his words, though 
some of the cats didn’t manage to look grateful at all, their 
eyes still wary and their muscles braced to respond if the 
ShadowClan cats showed any signs of attacking. 

“Гі be sure to pass on your message to Firestar when he 
returns,” Graystripe continued, trying to copy the easy way 
Firestar used during awkward encounters with other Clans. 
“And I’m sure I speak for him when I say that you have 
ThunderClan’s thanks. Mousefur, Brackenfur, please escort 
our guests back to the border.” 

“And may StarClan light your path,” Cinderpelt added, 


stepping up to Graystripe’s side. 

Russetfur’s only response was a grunt. Then she turned 
and headed out of the camp with Rowanclaw, closely flanked 
by the two ThunderClan cats. 

“T thought BloodClan was gone for good!” Cloudtail 
exclaimed as soon as the ShadowClan cats’ scent trail had 
begun to fade. 

“I knew something like this would happen with Firestar 
away,” Ashfur growled. “He’s left ThunderClan vulnerable, 
and what for? That’s what Га like to know.” 

“Clan leaders didn’t go wandering off in my day,” 
Speckletail snapped. “They stayed on their Clan’s territory.” 

“I wish Firestar had stayed,” Brambleclaw added, his 
amber eyes blinking anxiously. “If BloodClan has come back, 
we’ll need him.” 

Graystripe exchanged a glance with Cinderpelt. Only he 
and the medicine cat knew that Firestar and Sandstorm were 
searching for the lost SkyClan. They and Firestar had 
decided that the other cats should not be told that once 
there had been a fifth Clan that had been driven out of the 
forest. 

They те resentful about Firestars mysterious absence, 
Graystripe thought. And I cant really blame them. But how 
could he handle that? 

“Keep your fur on,” he meowed to the rest of the Clan. 
“This is only a rumor. We have no proof that BloodClan is 


anywhere near our territory.” 

But his Clanmates were muttering among themselves, 
their ears laid flat and their whiskers twitching with 
apprehension. Graystripe could tell that they weren’t 
listening to him. And for once, he wasn’t too worried. 
Thoughts were flickering through his brain so fast that he 
thought his head might burst; it was as if Firestar had 
somehow been able to lend himhis own quick wits. 

“TI tell you something,” he began at last, as one 
particular thought took shape in his mind, rising above the 
others. “We don’t have a WindClan problem. We have a 
BloodClan problem! Wouldn’t it be just like them to roll in 
WindClan scent, disguise themselves, and then take prey on 
our territory? Trouble with WindClan would keep us nicely 
occupied along that border while BloodClan moved in on us 
from the Twolegplace. And because our two Clans would be 
fighting each other, we’d both be weakened—easy pickings 
for those filthy mange-pelts!” 

For a moment, none of his Clanmates responded, only 
exchanging worried glances. I’m right, Graystripe thought. / 
know it. But that doesnt make things easier for us. 

“You could be right,’ Dustpelt meowed at last, and 
several other cats murmured agreement. 

“They even left us a sign,” Cinderpelt pointed out. 
“Blood—blood on our territory!” 

Graystripe drew a breath of relief. At least he seemed to 


have most of his Clan on his side again. The news about 
BloodClan had given him a good reason not to stir up 
trouble with WindClan; his instincts had been right. He’d 
known that Tallstar wouldn’t encourage his cats to steal 
prey in this plentiful season. 

Now he just had to decide what action to take next. “For 
the moment we’ll leave WindClan alone—until we can get 
proof, one way or another. If any of you see WindClan 
patrols on the border, greet them respectfully, like always. 
Ashfur,” he continued, “you have a hunting patrol to lead. 
Take Thornclaw and Cloudtail. Head for Fourtrees, then 
work your way back along the Thunderpath, and check for 
BloodClan scent there while you’re at it. Dustpelt and 
Brambleclaw, you can come with me.” 

“Where are we going?” Brambleclaw asked, an eager 
light driving out the anxiety in his eyes. 

“To the Thunderpath near the Twolegplace,” Graystripe 
replied, “close to where ShadowClan said they picked up 
BloodClan’s scent. We need to figure out whether they were 
telling the truth.” 

“Cool!” the young warrior exclaimed, his tail straight up 
in the air. 

Dustpelt rolled his eyes. 

As Graystripe had hoped, the promise of action pulled 
the Clan back together. Ashfur’s patrol bounded across the 
camp and through the tunnel, and Graystripe followed with 


Dustpelt and Brambleclaw. 

Heading for the Thunderpath, Graystripe noticed how 
alert Brambleclaw was, padding along as quietly as if he 
were stalking a mouse, his ears pricked for any unusual 
sounds, and his jaws open to taste the air. Graystripe could 
see that the young warrior was trying to prove himself to his 
older Clanmates. 

Hes not just worried about an attack from BloodClan, 
Graystripe guessed, remembering Brambleclaw’s anxiety 
when Tigerstar was mentioned. He must think that if 
BloodClan returns, every cat will remember that hes 
Tigerstar $ son. 

“Can you scent anything, Brambleclaw?” he asked. 

The young warrior shook his head. “I think a fox has 
been through here—maybe yesterday,” he meowed. “But I 
can’t pick up any trace of BloodClan.” 

Graystripe nodded. “Well scented,” he mewed. “Keep it 
up, and let us know if you scent anything else.” 

Brambleclaw’s eyes glowed and he puffed his chest out 
with pride. “I will, Grays tripe!” 

As the patrol drew closer to the Thunderpath, Graystripe 
noticed clouds massing to cover the sun. A chilly breeze 
rustled his pelt, and soon a thin drizzle began to fall. 

“Mouse dung,” Graystripe muttered, knowing the rain 
would dampen all the scents and make it harder to track 
BloodClan. It might erase entirely whatever traces 


ShadowClan had noticed. “That’s all we need!” 

Gradually the acrid scent of the Thunderpath began to 
penetrate the rain, and Graystripe could make out the growls 
of monsters as they rushed along the hard, black surface. In 
front of the cats lay a stretch of open ground; on one side 
was a fence around the first of the Twoleg dens, and straight 
ahead a line of thick bushes marked the edge of the 
Thunderpath. 

“Stay on this side of the bushes,” Graystripe murmured 
to his companions. “We’ll work our way along, and maybe 
meet up with Ashfur’s patrol.” 

But Graystripe had barely taken another paw step before 
an eerie yowl sounded above the hissing of the rain. He 
froze with horror as cat after cat poured out of the bushes 
and sprang toward the three ThunderClan warriors. 

BloodClan really has returned! Graystripe realized that 
until this moment he had been hoping that ShadowClan had 
somehow made a mistake. Am I up to dealing with them? he 
asked himself. BloodClan 5 return would test any leader— 
and I’m not even а real leader! I wonder, did ShadowClan 
have anything to do with setting up this ambush, to weaken 
ThunderClan?. 

The BloodClan cats were all muscular, formidable- 
looking creatures, their eyes glaring a challenge. Their rank 
scent was easy to pick up now as they formed a circle 
around Graystripe and his Clanmates. Graystripe’s stomach 


turned at the sight of them and at the stench that he had 
hoped never to smell again. 

Eight of them, Graystripe thought. Great StarClan, help 
us, or we'll be crow-food! 

For a few moments, the BloodClan cats stood still, their 
shoulder fur bristling and their lips drawn back in identical 
snarls. All of them looked like tough, experienced fighters, 
though Graystripe noticed that one of them, a she-cat with 
patchy black, white, and tortoiseshell fur, was heavily 
pregnant. Even though she was an enemy, he felt sick at the 
thought of fighting a queen so close to kitting. He knew it 
would never happen in ThunderClan; by now she would 
have been safely curled up in the nursery, with the medicine 
cat to take care of her and her unborn kits. 

But maybe that means she wont fight as fiercely as the 
others.... 

Dustpelt was sniffing deeply as he faced the BloodClan 
cats. “I think I can make out a trace of WindClan,” he 
muttered to Graystripe. 

Tasting the air more carefully, Graystripe too could pick 
up a trace of the other Clan, probably from the WindClan 
border markers. 

“So I was right,” he responded. “Thank StarClan I never 
went to confront Tallstar!” 

Then one of the cats, a long-furred tabby she-cat with 
one eye, and scars across her muzzle and her shoulders, 


stepped forward to confront Graystripe. “WindClan, you 
say?” she meowed. “Do you really think any of us would 
roll ourselves in their stink? How disgusting is that!” 

“Yes, I do think that,” Graystripe retorted. “I expect you 
enjoyed seeing us dashing to and fro, wondering if we were 
being invaded. But it didn’t work, did it? As soon as we 
heard about your scent on our borders, we knew exactly 
what was happening. So you won’t weaken us by setting up 
a battle with WindClan.” 

“Pity.” Still not admitting BloodClan’s ruse, the long- 
furred tabby examined her claws. “Your territory is so nice,” 
she purred, her one eye narrowed menacingly. “And the 
prey is running so well.” Her voice grew harsher as she 
added, “Promises were made to us before Scourge was 
killed, and just because he’s dead doesn’t mean we’ve given 
up wanting your territory.” 

Graystripe suppressed a shudder at the thought of being 
so outnumbered, but he made himself speak out boldly, just 
as he knew Firestar would have. “We ran you off before,” he 
pointed out, “when there were far more of you, and Scourge 
was your leader. You might be acting tough, but none of you 
can measure up to that scrawny little tom. And he’s been 
dead for moons, at the claws of our leader.” 

While he was speaking, he maneuvered to keep 
Brambleclaw at his back, and saw that Dustpelt was trying to 
protect the young cat from the other direction. Brambleclaw 


was a full warrior now, but he had been an apprentice not 
much more than a moon ago; he’d be no match for these 
hard-bitten rogues. He was flexing his claws, eager to play 
his part in the fight, but Graystripe vowed silently to keep 
him out of danger ifhe possibly could. 

“Your leader, Firestar, may have killed Scourge,” the 
tabby she-cat went on. “But we’ve been watching, and 
we’ve seen that Firestar is gone. Your precious leader has 
abandoned you.” 

Graystripe and Dustpelt exchanged a look of alarm. 
Thats supposed to be a secret! Graystripe thought, every 
hair on his pelt tingling with dread. 

“There are still far more cats in ThunderClan than there 
are in BloodClan,” he asserted, letting his fur bush out in the 
hope of intimidating their enemies. “I count eight of you. 
How do you think you could possibly fight us?” 

Another of the BloodClan cats—a gray tabby tom—let 
out a purr of laughter. “You stupid flea-brain!” he exclaimed. 
“Why would you think this is all of us?” 

Without further warning, the BloodClan cats leaped into 
an attack. Wherever he looked, Graystripe could see 
extended claws and jaws parted to show gleaming teeth. The 
tabby leader slammed into him and bore him to the ground, 
slashing with both forepaws at Graystripe’s throat. 
Graystripe jerked his head back just in time for the blow to 
swipe harmlessly through his fur. He pounded the she-cat 


with his powerful hind paws until she rolled away with a 
snarl of frustration, a look of fury on her scarred face. 

Graystripe scrambled to his paws. By now the rain was 
pelting in a torrent that soaked his pelt and ran down his 
forehead into his eyes. Shaking his head to get rid of the 
droplets, he spotted Dustpelt battling two ginger she-cats, 
whirling from side to side to land blows on their necks and 
shoulders while they tried to strike at his exposed 
underbelly. Brambleclaw was bravely fighting the tom with 
the patchy pelt, but as Graystripe sprang toward him, the 
tom raked his claws down Brambleclaw’s side. Blood welled 
up where the claws had passed, and Brambleclaw staggered 
from the force of the blow. 

Graystripe reached Brambleclaw and ducked to support 
him with one shoulder. “Get out of this!” he hissed into 
Brambleclaw’s ear. 

“No! I can fight!” the young cat protested. 

“T said, get out!” Graystripe repeated. “Go back to camp 
and fetch help. That’s an order!” 

Though still obviously reluctant, Brambleclaw dived into 
a gap between two BloodClan warriors and raced off into the 
trees. One of the BloodClan cats tried to pursue, but 
Graystripe leaped at him and landed on his back; the 
BloodClan cat thumped hard onto the ground and was slow 
to get up again. 

Taking a moment to catch his breath, Graystripe looked 


around for Dustpelt, only to see that a third rogue, a black- 
and-white tom with a torn ear and a collar studded with 
dogs’ teeth, had joined the two she-cats attacking him. 
Before he could leap to Dustpelt’s aid, the BloodClan leader 
and her three remaining cats crowded around him in a tight 
circle, herding him away from his Clanmate. Graystripe 
noticed that one of them was the pregnant she-cat; her torn 
fur and the blood trickling from her forehead showed that 
she had indeed been fighting as fiercely as any of the 
others. 

Iwas wrong to think we could discount her.... 

The four cats were driving Graystripe toward the 
Twolegplace. Once the tom Graystripe had knocked to the 
ground managed to totter to his paws, he joined them. 
Graystripe looked around uneasily, wondering if he could 
shoulder through the line of rogues without inviting another 
attack. Making a split-second decision, he darted forward, 
but he was just a moment too slow, and the tom he’d 
knocked down earlier swiveled to block him. The other cats 
closed in, and blows rained down on Graystripe from all 
sides. Even the pregnant queen was pummeling him, though 
she was clumsy because of the weight of her belly. 

He fought back, striking out with claws and teeth, but he 
was hopelessly outnumbered, and he didn’t have enough 
space to use the best of his ThunderClan battle techniques. 
His sodden pelt weighed himdown, and his paws slipped on 


the wet grass as he tried to maneuver. 

“Don’t hold back!” the long-furred leader snarled, her 
glittering gaze fixed on the pregnant she-cat. “Don’t think 
you can take it easy, just because you’re about to have 
kits!” 

Thats BloodClan for you, Graystripe thought hazily. In 
real Clans, we work to protect one another. In BloodClan, 
its every cat for herself. 

He knew that he was weakening, his strength drained by 
pain and loss of blood. A hard blow to the side of his head 
knocked him off his paws, and when he tried to get up, his 
legs wouldn’t obey him. He lay where he had fallen, his 
senses swimming, every muscle in his body throbbing with 
agony. 

Is this where it ends for me? he wondered. What will 
Firestar think of me, when he finds out that not only did 1 
fail to keep the Clan safe, but Iwas defeated so easily? 

“Is he dead?” some cat asked, his voice echoing eerily in 
Graystripe’s ears. 

“Let’s throw him to the dog in the Twolegplace,” the 
BloodClan leader growled. “If he’s not dead now, he soon 
will be.” 

“Great idea!” another cat sniggered. 

Graystripe felt a paw prodding him in the side. “He might 
have thought he could take over as that Clan’s leader,” the 
one-eyed tabby meowed, “but with him gone too, these cats 


will fall apart.” 

Even through his daze, Graystripe realized that the 
BloodClan cats must have been observing ThunderClan 
closely to notice not only that Firestar was missing, but also 
that he himself was in charge. Why did we never notice 
them? Have they been watching us all along, disguising 
their scent? 

He felt an extra stab of pain as claws dug into him and 
then a lurch as he started moving sideways; he realized that 
several of the cats were dragging him toward a hole in the 
bottom of the fence around the Twoleg den. His fur scraped 
along the bottom of the fence, and then he was inside; he 
heard the rogues groaning as they struggled to block the 
hole with what looked like a rock. There was no way out, and 
the stink of dog was all around him. 

Now what? he asked himself. J cant fight a dog in this 
State.... 

At first, Graystripe lay still, partly because his fall had 
driven his breath out of him, and partly because he wanted 
the BloodClan cats to think that he was dead. In spite of his 
pain, he didn’t think he was badly hurt; none of his limbs 
were broken, and his senses were beginning to return. 
Perhaps he hadn’t lost too much blood. 

At last Graystripe realized that the BloodClan cats must 
be leaving. Gradually their voices died away into the 
distance, and their scent too began to fade. When all was 


quiet, Graystripe rose cautiously to his paws. Blinking to 
clear his vision, he saw that he was standing at the edge ofa 
Twoleg garden, with grass stretching up to the walls of a 
Twoleg den. The rain had stopped; Graystripe licked some 
hanging drops from the leaves of a nearby bush and felt 
himself beginning to revive. 

A moment later, he stiffened as fierce barking broke out 
from the direction of the Twoleg den. But when he looked 
around, there was no sign of the dog, and he realized that 
the noise was coming from behind the walls of the den. 

In spite of his wounds, Graystripe let out a short mrrow 
of laughter. “Ha! If those stupid rogues wanted the dog to 
finish me off, they should have made sure it could get to 

Every muscle in his body ached, and he shivered with 
cold, his fur plastered to his body from the rain and the 
blood he had lost. Knowing that he had to get out of the 
garden and back to camp, he scrambled up a tree that grew 
close to the fence, digging in his claws and hauling himself 
painfully upward. 

Once he’d cleared the top of the fence, he crossed into 
the branches of another tree growing on the other side. 
Panting with the effort, he took a moment to rest, and 
scanned the open ground for any sign of Dustpelt. He was 
terrified at the thought of spotting the brown tabby warrior 
stretched out in a pool of his own blood, and drew a sigh of 


relief as he saw that Dustpelt wasn’t there. 

He must have escaped, back to camp. 

But Graystripe’s relief was short-lived. As he swept his 
gaze around the battleground for one last time, he spotted 
the pregnant she-cat, crouched under one of the bushes that 
lined the Thunderpath. Panic sparked beneath his pelt as his 
gaze locked with hers. 

Its over! 

Graystripe froze, waiting for the she-cat to call out to her 
friends. J cant outrun them. I cant fight so many of them on 
my own. StarClan, help me! 

But as the moments crept by, the she-cat did nothing. 
The she-cat said nothing. Hesitantly, Graystripe began to 
climb down the tree, and still she made no sound—just kept 
her clear gaze fixed on him all the while. She remained silent 
as he limped off into the trees, heading back to camp. Just 
before he plunged into the undergrowth, Graystripe glanced 
back over his shoulder and found her still watching him. 

I’msafe... but why did she let me escape? 


CHAPTER 8 


Se 


— Now — 


The sun was beginning to dip toward the horizon, throwing 
long shadows behind Graystripe and Flipclaw as they toiled 
up the slope that led to the Tribe’s mountain. The ground 
underpaw was harsh and gritty, with rocks poking up 
between stretches of sparse grass. Ahead, sheer cliffs rose 
up, bare except for a few cracks here and there where spindly 
thornbushes had rooted themselves. 

A shiver passed through Graystripe as he gazed at what 
lay ahead. J hope I’m right, he thought. I think this is the 
Tribe 5 mountain, but I’ve never been this way before. Millie 
and I followed a different path when we traveled to the 
lake. 

Graystripe had briefly considered going back to the 
ThunderClan camp to get directions from one of the cats 
who had been this way before. But then he would have 
risked being caught up again in the Clan’s troubles, and 
besides, some cat would surely have insisted on coming 
with him. 

I dont want that. And Гуе heard so many stories about 
that journey to the Tribe, when Lionblaze and the others 
went to help them, that I should be able to find my way. 


Graystripe’s paws tingled with anticipation, and a little 
anxiety, at the thought of meeting his son Stormfur again. It 
had been so long since Stormfur and his mate, Brook Where 
Small Fish Swim, had left the Clans, and Graystripe had 
never stopped missing him. But now he wondered how 
Stormfur would react to having his father tum up, 
unannounced, in his territory, among the cats he’d adopted 
in the place of his birth Clan. 

The slope grew steeper, and at last the way forward 
dwindled to a narrow ledge leading upward alongside a 
sheer cliff. On the other side was a precipice falling into a 
deep gully where shadows were already gathering. 

“For StarClan’s sake, keep well away from the edge,” 
Graystripe instructed Flipclaw. “If you slip over, you’ll be 
crow-food, unless you can fly.” 

“Pll be careful, Graystripe,” Flipclaw assured him, 
padding along with his pelt brushing the inner cliff face. 
“Isn’t this great!?” he added excitedly. “I thought the sides 
of the stone hollow were high, but this is just amazing! Wait 
till I tell Bristlefrost and Thriftear—they’ll be so envious, 
their whiskers will fall off!” 

So Flipclaw is thinking about going home to 
ThunderClan, Graystripe thought with a twinge of 
satisfaction. Even though he was unsure about his own 
future, it pleased him somehow that the young warrior was 
feeling the pull of his kin. 


“Keep your voice down,” he wamed him. “We're 
heading into the Tribe’s territory, and Гуе heard there used 
to be rogues living around here, too. Remember we’re 
intruders.” 

His pelt was prickling nervously, and he was almost 
certain there were eyes watching them from the darkness 
among the rocks. But all they could do was go on; 
Graystripe just hoped that no cat would be so flea-brained 
as to attack them on this precarious path. 

As the last of the sunlight faded, Graystripe saw that the 
ledge came to an abrupt end a couple of fox-lengths ahead. 
He halted, staggering as Flipclaw bumped into his 
hindquarters. 

“What’s the matter?” the young warrior asked, peering 
around Graystripe. “Why have we stopped?” 

Graystripe’s belly cramped at the thought of tuming 
around and heading all the way back in what would soon be 
darkness. Then he noticed that up ahead the ledge began 
again, after a gap of about three tail-lengths. 

“We’ll have to jump,” he mewed. 

A voice came out of the shadows ahead. “Not unless we 
say you can.” 

Flipclaw let out a startled squeak and pressed closer to 
Graystripe, while a chill spread through Graystripe from ears 
to tail-tip. Two cats had appeared on the path at the far side 
of the gap. One was a brown tabby tom, the other a pale 


gray she-cat. Between the shadows and the colors of their 
pelts, they almost blended into the rocks behind them. 
Looking closer, he saw that they had streaked their pelts 
with mud, too, making it even easier to hide. Only their eyes 
—one pair of glowing amber, the other glittering green— 
stood out in the twilight. 

The she-cat paced forward until she stood at the very 
edge of the gap. “Who are you, and what do you want?” 
she demanded brusquely. 

Graystripe also stepped forward and gave a respectful 
nod of his head. “My name is Graystripe,” he replied. “I’m 
looking for my kin.” 

The gray she-cat exchanged a wary glance with the 
tabby tom. “You have kin here?” she asked, sounding as if 
she didn’t believe Graystripe at all. 

“Yes, my son Stormfur,” Graystripe replied. 

“Stormfur!” the tabby tom exclaimed, sounding relieved 
and suddenly much more friendly. “Then you must be one of 
the Clan cats who live by the lake.” 

“Stormfur has told us lots of stories about you,” the she- 
cat added, much less grudgingly. “Welcome to the territory 
of the Tribe of Rushing Water. My name is Moon Shining on 
Water, and this is Thorn That Grows in Cleft.” 

“We're cave-guards,” Thom mewed; he puffed out his 
chest proudly, showing Graystripe how seriously he took his 
responsibilities. 


“And Pm Flipclaw.” The young warrior had crowded 
close to gaze over Graystripe’s shoulder, his eyes gleaming 
with interest at the sight of the strangers. “Pm a 
ThunderClan cat, like Graystripe.” 

Thorn and Moon both stepped backward to leave a clear 
space on the other side of the gap. 

“Come over,” Moon invited them. “We’ll take you to the 
cave.” 

Eagerly Flipclaw slipped past Graystripe and took a run 
up to the gap, bunching his muscles and pushing off into a 
soaring leap. He landed safely on the other side with a tail- 
length to spare. 

Graystripe, aware of his aching muscles after the long 
climb up the rocky path, prepared to follow. The gap seemed 
to yawn wider and wider with every heartbeat that passed. 
More afraid of making a fool of himself than of plummeting 
into the shadowy depths, he sized up the gap with a careful 
gaze, then gathered his hindquarters under him and thrust 
himself forward. To his relief, all four of his paws slammed 
down on the edge of the rock, and he straightened up, 
twitching his whiskers to show the others how unconcerned 
he was. 

“Lead on,” he meowed. 

Moon took the lead as they continued along the ledge, 
with Graystripe and Flipclaw following, and Thorn bringing 
up the rear. Soon the path veered away into a narrow cleft 


with rock walls and huge boulders rising up on either side. 
At one point a shallow stream gurgled across the gully; 
Graystripe was grateful for the touch of cool water on his 
tired paws as he splashed through it. 

By this time, the light had almost entirely faded, and 
Graystripe was glad that they had an escort. He was 
following Moon more by scent than by sight, and he was 
sure he would never have found the way in the dark. 

At last they rounded a jutting outcrop, and the 
landscape opened out before them. Graystripe halted, 
staring. In front of them was a sheer wall of rock; a waterfall 
cascaded from the top, thundering down into a pool below. 
Starshine touched the falling water with silver and turned 
the spray above the pool into a shimmering cloud. 

“It's beautiful!” Flipclaw breathed, staring at it in awe. 

Graystripe shared his wonder. He had heard his 
Clanmates describe the home of the Tribe of Rushing Water, 
but he could never have imagined it was as spectacular as 
this. He stood drinking in the sight, hardly aware of the 
spray that was soaking his pelt. 

“This way,” Thorn meowed briskly. 

He took the lead as the four cats scrambled up the rocks 
beside the waterfall and headed along a path behind the 
crashing water. 

“Watch where you’re putting your paws,” Graystripe 
warned Flipclaw; his pelt began to rise with nervousness. 


The rock had grown slippery beneath his pads, and that 
water could easily grab a careless cat and drag him into the 
depths below. 

Imagine having to do this every day, he thought, before 
you can get into your camp! 

“Pm fine,” Flipclaw assured him, though there was a 
quiver in his voice. “But these mountain cats must be really 
good at climbing!” 

Graystripe huffed out a thankful breath once he and 
Flipclaw reached the cave and he was able to gaze around in 
the dim light. The walls soared up into the shadows, where 
long fangs of stone hung downward from the roof. The floor 
stretched in front of Graystripe for countless fox-lengths. 

The scents of many cats flowed over Graystripe, but at 
first he couldn’t see where they were coming from. Then, as 
his eyes adjusted to the darkness, he saw that the cave was 
full of cats, perched on ledges or resting in dips on the cave 
floor, or beginning to approach him and Flipclaw, their eyes 
full of curiosity. 

And in the middle of the cave was one cat in particular, a 
muscular gray tom who halted, staring, for a moment, then 
bounded toward Graystripe and skidded to a halt in front of 
him. 

“Graystripe?” he exclaimed, disbelief and joy warring in 
his eyes. “Is it really you?” 

“Stormfur .. .” Graystripe let out a long purr. Stormfur 


looked very different from the last time he’d seen him, and 
yet he was entirely the kit Graystripe remembered. His heart 
flooded with warmth. My son! All the hazards of the journey 
had been worth it for this moment as he touched noses with 
Stormfur and breathed in his scent. 

“I can hardly believe you’re here!” Stormfur continued, 
stepping back a pace. “Brook—come and see. It’s my father, 
Graystripe.” 

He gestured with his tailtoward a pretty tabby she-cat, 
who padded forward with a welcoming gaze and dipped her 
head respectfully to Graystripe. “It’s good to see you 
again,” she mewed. 

Graystripe nodded back. “It’s very good to be here,” he 
replied. 

Four younger cats crowded up beside Brook, staring at 
Graystripe with unconcealed curiosity. “These are our kits,” 
Brook introduced them proudly. “Lark That Sings at Dawn, 
Pine That Clings to Rock—” 

“And we’re Feather of Flying Hawk and Breeze That 
Rustles the Leaves,” a young gray tom interrupted 
cheerfully. “It’s great to meet you, Graystripe. Stormfur has 
told us lots about you.” 

Graystripe stood gazing at the group of cats in front of 
him, bewildered at meeting so many of them. These cats 
were young and healthy, their eyes shining with excitement 
at meeting their long-lost kin. And they те my kin, too; all 





these young cats are my kin. 

It was wonderful. 

It had been a long time since he had seen Stormfur and 
Brook; his son wasn’t a young cat anymore. His lithe figure 
had thickened out, and there was a hint of silver around his 
muzzle, but he still looked strong and vigorous, and there 
was wisdom in his eyes. 

A prodding at Graystripe’s side reminded him that 
Flipclaw was standing there, waiting quietly while Graystripe 
was united with his kin. 

“Pm sorry, Flipclaw,” Graystripe meowed. “Stormfur, 
Brook, this is Flipclaw, another ThunderClan warrior.” 

“Welcome, Flipclaw,” Brook murmured, while Stormfur 
asked, “Is he your kin, Graystripe?” 

For a moment, Graystripe was startled by the question, 
realizing how little Stormfur knew of the present 
ThunderClan, and of the kits he’d had with Millie. He 
wondered briefly what his life would have been like ifhe had 
gone back to RiverClan with Stormfur and Feathertail when 
they first returned there after the battle against BloodClan, 
or if he had been able to convince them to stay in 
ThunderClan. Or he might have left ThunderClan and 
accompanied Stormfur and Brook when they had retumed to 
the Tribe after their time living by the lake. His life could 
have been different in so many ways, if he hadn’t chosen 
loyalty to ThunderClan. 


Maybe it was the wrong choice, he thought. Maybe 1 
should try to stay with the Tribe now, with my oldest 
surviving kit—my only living link to Silverstream. 

It was hard to imagine what else he could have done, 
when ThunderClan had been his life for so long. But he had 
seen it go through so many changes. Things had gotten 
bad, so bad that this ThunderClan was nothing like the Clan 
he’d grown up in and devoted his life to. All his memories of 
the old times had only emphasized the differences. 

Still, Graystripe hadn’t entirely lost his resolve. Even 
though its changed, I want to be there if my Clan needs те. 
But... do they? He had no idea how he could help. J dont 
know how Ican help. I’m not even a warrior anymore. 

Meanwhile, Flipclaw had answered Stormfur’s question, 
not at all intimidated by meeting so many strange cats at 
once. “No, I’m kin to Lionblaze. I think he traveled here 
when he was Lionpaw.” 

“Oh, I remember Lionblaze!” Brook purred. “Come and 
eat with us, and you can tellus all about him.” 

Stormfur and Brook, with their kits following, escorted 
Graystripe and Flipclaw across the cave to the Tribe’s fresh- 
kill pile. As he drew closer to the back of the cave, 
Graystripe noticed the dark openings of two tunnels and 
wondered where they led. He was about to ask Stormfur, but 
his son forestalled him by beginning to speak again. 

“It’s funny you should turn up now,” Stormfur began as 


he padded at Graystripe’s side. “A strange thing happened 
the other day. Some of our prey-hunters met with a rogue on 
the other side of the mountain, closer to your old forest. He 
was asking about you by name.” 

Graystripe halted, blinking in bewilderment. “Asking 
about me?” Who could possibly be asking for him here, so 
close to the Tribe? 

“Yes. But the prey-hunters didn’t know you, so they 
weren’t able to tell the rogue anything.” 

“That’s the weirdest coincidence I’ve heard in a long 
time,” Graystripe murmured as Stormfur urged him on again 
with a whisk of his tail. “I’ve no idea who the cat could be. 
Maybe one of the barn cats I met when I traveled to the lake 
with Millie, or a kittypet from the Twolegplace near the 
forest? I suppose that kittypet friend of Firestar’s would still 
know my name, or one of Firestar’s sister Princess’s kits. 
They’d be grown cats by now.” 

“But why would they come looking for you?” Stormfur 
asked. “And why here?” 

“That’s the question,” Graystripe responded. “Why 
would they?” 

Stormfur just looked back at him with the same blank 
expression Graystripe could feel on his own face. 

As the group reached the fresh-kill pile, a figure 
appeared from one of the openings at the back of the cave: a 
dark gray tom with gleaming amber eyes. The other cats 


drew aside respectfully as he approached, halting in front of 
Graystripe and Flipclaw. 

Stormfur stepped forward and dipped his head to the 
newcomer. “Stoneteller, this is my father, Graystripe,” he 
meowed. “And this is Flipclaw, another ThunderClan cat. 
Graystripe, this is our Tribe’s Healer, the Teller of the Pointed 
Stones.” 

Stoneteller stretched out a paw in a polite gesture of 
greeting. “Cats of ThunderClan.” His voice rumbled in his 
chest. “You’re very welcome here.” 

Graystripe bowed his head, remembering from his 
Clanmates’ stories how powerful this cat was—not only the 
Tribe’s leader, but its medicine cat as well. “I am honored to 
meet you,” he responded. 

Stoneteller fixed him with an amber stare, and Graystripe 
felt an uneasy prickling in his fur, as if this cat could see far 
more of himthan he wanted to reveal. 

Then Stoneteller gave hima tiny nod. “Eat, and rest,” he 
meowed. “But perhaps later we will talk together, 
Graystripe.” With that, he withdrew into the tunnel again. 

Graystripe found himself relaxing as the Healer 
disappeared. The Tribe cats were friendly, and while their 
way of life was strange to him, they were not that different 
from the Clan cats he knew so well. But Stoneteller was 
another matter. 

Maybe its because he has all that power gathered into 


one cat, Graystripe thought. I’m not sure I’m looking 
forward to talking to him again. 

Graystripe pushed his apprehension away as Stormfur 
padded up to him, carrying two pieces of fresh-kill. “Will you 
share prey with me?” he asked. 

“Of course. Thank you,” Graystripe replied, not sure 
what his son meant. His belly cramped with nervousness at 
the thought of getting something wrong and embarrassing 
his son in front ofall these cats. 

Then he spotted two of the Tribe cats a couple of tail- 
lengths away; each one took the first bite from a piece of 
prey, then pushed it over to the other to finish off. Relieved 
that now he knew what to do, Graystripe tore off a mouthful 
from the prey Stormfur set down in front of him, then passed 
the rest across to his son, receiving Stormfur’s second piece 
in exchange. 

“This is eagle,” Stormfur told him. “Do you have eagles 
by the lake?” 

Graystripe shook his head. “This is good, though,” he 
meowed with his mouth full. “Very tasty.” 

Glancing around, he saw that Flipclaw was sharing fresh- 
kill with Stormfur’s son Feather of Flying Hawk. Reassured 
that his young Clanmate was okay, he settled down to enjoy 
his meal and his son’s company. 

Stars were shining through the cave entrance, turning 
the waterfall to flickering silver. Graystripe noticed that his 


son was staring up at them, his eyes dark with memory. Fora 
few moments Graystripe respected his silence, until the 
sound of kits playfully squealing shook Stormfur out of his 
contemplation. 

“I sometimes wonder if Feathertail is up there, watching 
over the Tribe,” he mused. “I’m not sure whether she would 
be in StarClan, or in the Tribe of Endless Hunting, where the 
Tribe’s ancestors go. That seems more likely, since she 
sacrificed her life for them.” 

The realization struck Graystripe with the force of a blow: 
this was where his daughter had died, far from her Clan. He 
remembered the stories of her courage, bringing down one 
ofthe stone fangs fromthe roof to kill the marauding lion-cat 
Sharptooth. 

“Leafpool once told me that she’d been spotted in 
StarClan. But perhaps she visits both, somehow? If she is in 
the Tribe of Endless Hunting,” he responded to Stormfur, 
“then she might be watching over us as we speak.” 

Stormfur let out a sigh. “She was so bright and fierce and 
openhearted,” he murmured. 

“Yes, she always reminded me of Silverstream,” 
Graystripe agreed. “The mother you never knew. The first 
cat I loved. I had another mate later—Millie,” he continued. 
“But she got sick and died too.” 

“Pmsorry.” Stormfur reached out with his tail and drew it 
down Graystripe’s side. “I can’t imagine being without 


Brook, let alone losing two mates.” 

When the two cats had finished eating, Stormfur took 
Graystripe to drink froma pool near the back of the cave, fed 
by a stream that trickled out from among the rocks. Flipclaw 
was there drinking, too, while Feather watched with a 
friendly gleam in his eyes. 

“I think the Tribe is great!” Flipclaw told Graystripe 
enthusiastically, shaking his head so that glittering water 
drops spun away from his whiskers. “They’re just like a 
Clan, except they don’t have to worry about the warrior code 
all the time. And there are no other Tribes to cause trouble.” 

“Well, we have a sort of code of our own,” Feather 
pointed out. “And the rogues who live farther down the 
mountain can be a problem sometimes.” 

“Oh, it’s not the same,” Flipclaw insisted with a sweep of 
his tail. “And you have this great place to live,” he 
continued, gazing around admiringly at the vast cavern. 
“Plenty of room for all of you, and you’re sheltered from the 
wind and rain. You don’t even have to go out to find water.” 

Graystripe remembered how Flipclaw had been talking 
about his Clanmates just recently, on the way up the 
mountain. Now he wondered if the young warrior had 
changed his mind about going back. It was clear that he had 
fallen in love with the Tribe’s way of life. Suppose he 
decided to stay, he thought. It wouldnt be a bad choice, 
though it must be a hard life, up here among the rocks. 


“Feather has invited me to go hunting with him 
tomorrow,” Flipclaw went on. “He says he can show me 
some new techniques.” 

“Yes, Pm a prey-hunter now,” Feather announced. “Pd 
love to take Flipclaw out, if that’s okay with you, 
Graystripe.” 

“Flipclaw is a warrior,” Graystripe responded, proud that 
the lively and yet respectful Feather was his kin. “He 
doesn’t need my permission.” 

“And it won’t hold you up on your journey?” Feather 
asked. 

Graystripe shook his head. “I guess we’ll stay for a day 
or two at least.” 

“Great!” Flipclaw gave an excited little bounce, like the 
apprentice he had been not so long before. “I’m so glad I 
decided to come with you.” 

“Good.” Graystripe touched his nose to the young 
warrior’s ear. 

“Гуе prepared sleeping hollows for you,” Brook 
meowed, padding up to them. “Come this way.” 

She led the ThunderClan cats to a spot near the cave 
wall, where two dips in the stone floor had been lined with 
moss and feathers. Graystripe suddenly realized how very 
tired he was, and how inviting the nests were with their soft 
bedding. 

“Thanks, that looks really comfortable,” Flipclaw mewed, 


with a massive yawn. “Good night, Graystripe. Good night, 
Feather.” 

He immediately curled up in one of the hollows and was 
soon asleep, snoring gently with his tail wrapped over his 
nose. 

Graystripe settled down in the hollow next to him, and 
slipped easily into sleep, too, exhausted by the day’s long 
trek and the emotion of seeing his son again. But his sleep 
was restless; he seemed to be wandering down dark tunnels, 
now and again catching glimpses of a cat who was 
sometimes Silverstream, sometimes Feathertail, sometimes 
Millie, but however hard he tried, he could never catch up 
with her. 

At last he jerked awake, sitting up with every hair on his 
pelt quivering, as if he had heard some yowl warning him of 
danger. It was still night; the flickering starlight still lit up the 
cave. Everything seemed peaceful: Graystripe could see the 
furry backs of cats curled up in their nests and hear the 
sound of their soft breath. 

Then he spotted movement beside the silver screen of 
falling water, and recognized the outline of Stoneteller. His 
first instinct was to lie down again and pretend to he was 
still sleeping, but he knew that, sooner or later, he would 
have to confront the Tribe’s Healer. 

Okay, he thought with a sigh. It might as well be now. 


CHAPTER 9 


Se 


— Now — 


Graystripe hauled himself out of the nest and padded 
across the cave floor to stand in front of Stoneteller. “You 
said we might talk,” he mewed, dipping his head in the 
deepest respect. 

Stoneteller gave a nod of assent and settled himself on 
the ground with his paws stretched out in front of him. “I 
can see how troubled you are,” he told Graystripe. “Why 
have you come to the Tribe? Can I help you find the path 
your paws are destined to tread?” 

“You’re right. I am troubled,” Graystripe replied, sitting 
beside the Healer. His pelt prickled with apprehension that 
this stranger somehow knew him so well. Yet he wondered, 
too, whether Stoneteller could possibly understand his 
worries. The Clans are so different from the Tribe. And 
would it be a betrayal to speak openly of our troubles to a 
Tribe cat? “I came to see my son,” he continued. “But that’s 
not why I left my Clan... .” 

Suddenly, gazing into those patient, receptive amber 
eyes, Graystripe felt a lump in his throat. All the words he 
wanted to say were choked up behind it. He realized that he 
wished he could pour out everything, from the first hints 


that something was wrong with Bramblestar, to the 
disastrous battle when so many Clan cats had died. For a 
moment he hesitated, then nodded to himself. “It all started 
last leaf-bare ...,” he began. 

Stoneteller listened without speaking until Graystripe 
had finished. “I have sensed a shadow in the direction of the 
Clans when I have consulted the pointed stones to direct my 
own Tribe,” he mewed at last. 

Graystripe didn’t understand exactly what the Healer 
meant, but a shiver passed through his pads at the thought 
that Stoneteller had seen that. Our troubles must be really 
bad, to reach so far. 

“The worst thing,” he confessed, “is that the Clans still 
can’t communicate with StarClan anymore. They’ve been 
silent for so long, even to our medicine cats. Have you been 
receiving messages from the Tribe of Endless Hunting?” 

“Of course,” Stoneteller replied. Hesitating for a moment, 
he continued, “Let me try to help you. Come with me.” 

He rose to his paws and led Graystripe across the cave 
and into the tunnel from which he had emerged earlier. The 
passage was dark, and Graystripe could feel his pelt 
brushing the walls on either side. Then he realized that 
moonlight was seeping in from somewhere ahead. 

A moment later he padded forward into an open space, 
and he gasped in wonder at the sight in front of him. This 
was a smaller cave than the one he had left. A jagged hole in 


the roof let in the radiance of moon and stars; the light was 
reflected in pools of water that dappled the floor of the cave. 
It made him think of Mothermouth and the Moonstone near 
the old forest territory; Cinderpelt had described a similar 
shining in the darkness. 

Most awe-inspiring of all were the pointed stones that 
projected from the roof, far more thickly than in the outer 
cavern. More stones grew up from the floor, some of them 
tall enough to join with the ones that hung downward, so 
that Graystripe felt as though he were standing at the edge 
ofa stone forest. 

“Come,” Stoneteller invited him, weaving his way among 
the stone trees until he stood in the center of the cave. 

Graystripe followed, and stood beside Stoneteller as he 
settled beside one of the glimmering pools, tucking his paws 
undemeath him and stretching out his neck until his nose 
almost touched the surface. The sound of softly dripping 
water soothed Graystripe, and he waited patiently while 
Stoneteller gazed into the depths of the pool. 

At last the Tribe’s Healer raised his head to face 
Graystripe. “There is indeed a shadow lying in the direction 
where your Clans live,” he reported. “Perhaps that is what 
stops you from communicating with StarClan.” 

“But what does that mean?” Graystripe asked. “Is there 
anything I can do to help my Clan?” Or am I just a useless 
elder? he added silently to himself. 


“Wait,” Stoneteller responded. “I will look again.” 

Graystripe watched as the Healer bowed his head once 
more over the pool. His own thoughts were whirling. 
Stoneteller was still able to see a shadow that lay over the 
lake, even though StarClan couldn’t communicate with the 
Clans. And he could still reach the Tribe of Endless Hunting. 

He watched Stoneteller, whose eyes were closed as he 
seemed to listen for any message from the Tribe. It was 
exactly as he’d always imagined medicine cats looking as 
they touched their noses to the Moonpool. But whats 
different here, that lets the Tribe still contact their 
ancestors? Why is it that StarClan cant—or won t—reach 
out to us? He wished he could find an answer, but what 
hope did he have, when even the medicine cats didn’t 
know? 

Anticipation tingled in Graystripe’s pads as he wondered 
whether Stoneteller might be able to give him an answer to 
that vital question. 

He lost count of time as he stood in the eerie stone 
forest, listening to the whisper of water drops and watching 
the shifting light on the surface of the pools. He was almost 
startled when the Healer straightened up once more and 
faced him. 

“Does the Tribe of Endless Hunting have any message 
for me?” he asked hoarsely. The Clan hadn’t heard from 
StarClan for so many moons; it made Graystripe hungry now 


for any guidance the Tribe’s Healer could offer. 

Stoneteller inclined his head. “They tell me that you still 
have a part to play,” he replied. “You must leave the Tribe 
and continue your journey. So sleep now. When you leave 
here, you will need all your strength.” 

As Graystripe settled into his sleeping hollow again, he 
was more confused than ever. He felt a massive relief that he 
still had a part to play in the life of his Clan, but he couldn’t 
imagine what that part could be. That knowledge was 
something that the Tribe’s ancestors hadn’t seen fit to share. 

The Tribe of Endless Hunting sounds just like StarClan, 
he thought. Neither of them can give a cat a straight 
answer: 

Stoneteller seemed to be suggesting that he should 
return to ThunderClan. But cold dread soaked through 
Graystripe from ears to tail-tip, as if he had stepped into the 
icy waters of a leaf-bare lake, when he thought of returning 
without any kind of guidance for himself or his Clan. In the 
days since he had left the ThunderClan camp, he had felt 
himself growing again: hunting, traveling, making decisions, 
just as he had when he was younger. 

IfI go back now, ГЇЇ dwindle into an elder again, he 
thought. And maybe that really is all Гат. But Ihave to find 
out what I’m meant to do, before I set one paw on the path 
that leads back to ThunderClan. 

“StarClan, can you hear me?” he murmured, muffling his 


voice with his own tail so as not to disturb any of the cats 
curled up around him. “Or maybe the Tribe of Endless 
Hunting is listening to me. If you are, please send me a sign. 
Show me what I’m supposed to do.” 

The cavern was silent, except for the gentle snores of 
sleeping cats and the endless rush of the waterfall. Nothing 
disturbed the shimmering light that that flooded into the 
cave, showing him that outside, the moon was shining 
through the waterfall. 

“T guess that’s a no, then,” Graystripe muttered to 
himself. 

But a voice inside his head seemed to say, Not yet. 

Heaving a massive sigh, Graystripe closed his eyes. 
Sleep flooded over himas gently as a mother curling herself 
around her kits. 


When Graystripe first woke, he couldn’t remember where 
he was. He opened his eyes expecting to see the interlacing 
branches of the elders’ den, but instead he was surrounded 
by walls of stone, with jagged spikes pointed down toward 
him. A rushing sound filled his ears. 

Blinking, he sat up. A stone floor stretched in front of 
him as far as the glimmering cascade of the waterfall that 
covered the cave opening. At the sight of it all, Graystripe’s 
memories came flooding back: the journey to the mountains, 
his reunion with his son Stormfur, and the unsettling 
encounter with Stoneteller. He sprang to his paws, shaking 


his pelt to dislodge the scraps of moss and feathers that 
clung to it. 

Now I have to find some answers! 

Graystripe stepped out of his sleeping hollow and sat 
down to give himself a quick grooming. Here and there he 
could see Tribe cats padding purposefully to and fro; some 
kits were batting a pebble across the floor, while an older cat 
was demonstrating a hunting move to a group of 
apprentices—to-bes, they were called in the Tribe, he 
remembered. Graystripe’s pelt prickled with embarrassment 
as he realized that he had slept late, and the day was well 
advanced. 

Before he had finished his grooming, he spotted Brook 
Where Small Fish Swim trotting across the cave floor toward 
him. Graystripe rose to his paws and dipped his head 
politely to her as she halted beside him. 

“Greetings, Graystripe,” she meowed. “You slept well?” 

“Too well, I think,” Graystripe responded ruefully. “I’m 


sorry 


се 


” 


о need to apologize,” Brook told him. “You must have 
been exhausted after your journey. Are you hungry?” she 
continued briskly. “The hunting patrols aren’t back yet, but I 
can probably find you something.” 

Graystripe’s belly had produced a small warning growl at 
the thought of food, but he shook his head. “I’m fine, 
thanks. I can wait.” 


Brook sat down beside him, licked one forepaw, and 
began to wash her ears. “Stormfur is leading a border 
patrol,” she mewed. “And Feather took Flipclaw out with 
Pine and some of the other prey-hunters. I hope that’s 
okay.” 

“I told Feather last night, Flipclaw doesn’t need to ask 
for my permission,” Graystripe replied. But all the same, ГЇЇ 
be glad when hes back. We need to discuss what we re 
going to do next. 

“I think ГЇЇ go out for a breath of air,” he went on, rising 
to his paws. “And to stretch my legs.” 

“Be careful on the path behind the falls,” Brook warned 
him. “It’s easy to slip.” 

“Thanks, I will.” 

Graystripe dipped his head once more to Brook, then 
bounded across the cavern and headed along the ledge until 
he emerged on the mountainside. An easy scramble took him 
up onto a flat rock from where he could look around. The air 
was cold and clear, and he drew it deep into his lungs. 

In every direction, as far as he could see, peaks 
stretched away, row upon row of them, until the most distant 
were lost in a misty blur. Close by he could see the gray rock 
walls seamed with cracks, where scrawny thombushes had 
rooted themselves. Here and there were taller trees, dark 
pines like the ones that grew on ShadowClan territory. 

The only other vegetation he could see was around the 


edges of the poolat the foot of the waterfall. 

How can cats possibly live here? he asked himself. 
Always to feel hard rock underpaw, never to taste the green 
scents of the forest... 

Movement down below alerted Graystripe, and he 
spotted four cats emerging from a deep gully and skirting 
the pool as they headed for the end of the path. Three of 
them were carrying the body ofan enormous bird: Its brown 
wings dangled limply, almost tripping the cats who carried it, 
while its cruel talons stuck out at odd angles. 

I suppose thats an eagle, Graystripe thought. Great 
StarClan, it must have taken some catching! 

The fourth cat—Graystripe recognized him as Thom, 
one of the cave-guards who had escorted him and Flipclaw 
the night before—brought up the rear, scanning his 
surroundings carefully and keeping watch on the sky. 
Graystripe had a vision of another vast bird swooping down 
on the patrol and carrying offa cat in its massive claws. 

The prey-hunters climbed up to the path and 
disappeared behind the waterfall. Thorn paused for a 
moment, with a nod of greeting for Graystripe. 

“You had a good hunt,” Grays tripe remarked. 

“The best!” Thom responded cheerfully. “The Tribe 
should eat well tonight.” He went on and vanished after the 
rest of the patrol. 

A chilly breeze had arisen, ruffling Graystripe’s fur. The 


sun was already beginning to dip down behind the mountain 
peaks, casting long shadows into the clefts and gullies lower 
down. He realized that he had slept almost the whole day 
away. 

Graystripe rose, preparing to leap down from his rock 
and return to the cave, when once again he spotted 
movement on the mountainside. This time it was a single 
she-cat, racing along a ledge so narrow that Graystripe 
thought she would lose her balance at any moment and 
plummet into the depths. 

The cat slipped and scrambled down the last rocky slope 
to the edge of the pool, then began to climb up to the end of 
the path. Now that she was close to him, Graystripe could 
see her staring eyes and bristling fur; something had 
obviously terrified her. 

“What’s the matter?” he called. 

The she-cat ignored him; Graystripe guessed that she 
hadn’t even realized that he was there. She disappeared up 
the path; Graystripe jumped down from his rock and 
followed her, his heart beginning to thump with foreboding. 

By the time he reached the cavern, the she-cat was the 
center of an anxious huddle, every cat demanding to know 
what had happened. 

“Fetch Stoneteller!” the she-cat gasped. “There’s been 
an accident.” 

A horrible premonition gathered in Graystripe’s chest, 


and he felt his shoulder fur beginning to rise. Flipclaw .. . 
He pressed forward, weaving his way through the group of 
cats until he reached the she-cat’s side. 

Brook was standing close to her, resting her tail on the 
younger cat's shoulder to calm her. “Take it easy, Crest,” she 
mewed. “Tell us what happened.” 

The she-cat, Crest, took a couple of breaths, her chest 
heaving, before she replied. “We were hunting. . . . There 
was a rockslide. Feather and that ThunderClan cat were 
buried!” 

“No!” Brook let out the single word as an anguished 
wail, then clamped her jaws shut, clearly fighting for self- 
control. 

Graystripe took a pace that brought him to her side. “We 
have to rescue them.” 

Brook nodded. “We will. Of course we will. But 
Stoneteller—” 

She broke off as the crowd of cats parted, and Graystripe 
realized that some cat had alerted the Tribe’s Healer; he 
emerged from his tunnel and paced forward to join them. 

“Crest of Snowy Mountain,” he meowed, dipping his 
head. “Report.” 

Crest began her story again, more calmly this time and 
with more detail. Pine had been scrambling up a slope in 
pursuit ofa rabbit when his weight had dislodged a rock and 
brought down an avalanche of soil, grit, and pebbles. 


Feather had seen it coming, and had yowled a waming to 
Flipclaw, who was standing directly underneath the 
cascading stones. 

“Feather leaped toward him to thrust him out of the way. 
But it was too late,” Crest finished, her voice shaking. “They 
were both buried.” 

Stoneteller’s response was swift. “Then we’ll go and get 
them out.” 

Graystripe remembered that some cat had told him the 
Tribe’s Healer never left the cave, but obviously, for an 
emergency like this, he was prepared to break the Tribe’s 
custom. “I’mcoming with you,” he announced. 

For a moment Stoneteller looked as if he might argue, 
then gave Graystripe a curt nod. “You too, Brook,” he 
meowed, and beckoned with his tail to Thorn and another 
sturdy, muscular tom. “Crest, lead the way.” 

Resolute now that the rescue mission was underway, 
Crest led Graystripe and the others out onto the 
mountainside. At the bottom of the rocks beside the pool 
Graystripe spotted more cats: Stormfur, retuming at the head 
of his patrol. In a few tense words, Brook told him what had 
happened. 

“ГИ come,” Stormfur responded, ordering his cats back 
to the cave, then bringing up the rear of the rescue patrol as 
it headed deeper into the mountains. 

As the last sunlight disappeared and the shadows 


gathered more thickly, Graystripe was afraid that one 
careless paw step would send him crashing into the depths. 
But he forced himself to continue, grimly determined to keep 
up with the experienced Tribe cats, and do what he could to 
help his Clanmate. 

If Flipclaw is even alive, he thought, with cold claws 
gripping his heart. Oh, StarClan, please dont let him be 
dead! 

Finally Crest led the way onto a small grass-covered 
plateau. At the far side, a steep, rocky slope stretched 
upward for many fox-lengths. Graystripe could see a raw 
scar where earth and stones had fallen away to form a 
massive heap at the foot of the slope. Two cats were digging 
frantically at the debris. 

“Feather!” Brook sprang forward. “Crest said you were 
buried!” 

“I was.” The young gray tom was shaking, and his eyes 
were distraught as he turned toward his mother and the rest 
of the cats. Graystripe could see that his pelt was clotted 
with soil and grit, and blood trickled from a cut on his 
forehead. “But only at the edge. Flipclaw is still under 
there.” 

“Stay back now, and rest.” Stoneteller took over, 
authority in his voice. “You too, Pine,’ he added to 
Feather’s brother, who was still clawing at the heap of 
debris. “Stay with Feather, and keep watch for hawks. Give 


the rest ofus space to work.” 

Reluctantly Feather and Pine withdrew to the edge of the 
plateau, while Stoneteller and the rest of the cats attacked 
the heap. Graystripe found a place between the Healer and 
Stormfur and began scooping at the dirt with his forepaws, 
kicking it out of the way with his powerful back legs. 

The task seemed to go on forever. Graystripe’s muscles 
ached with effort; grit stung his eyes and earth clotted his 
claws, yet he still went on digging. He knew he would never 
forgive himself if he gave up before they had uncovered 
Flipclaw—or Flipclaw’s body. 

How long can a cat survive underneath all this? 

At first the twilight deepened until Graystripe couldn’t 
even see his own working paws. But gradually he became 
aware of the darkness lifting and a silvery light washing over 
the rocks. He knew that the moon must have risen, but he 
was too intent on his task to look up and see it. 

Eventually Stormfur let out a hoarse cry. “Here!” 

Glancing aside, Graystripe blinked the grit from his eyes 
and spotted what looked like a tabby snake emerging from 
the debris. He realized that it was Flipclaw’s tail. He plunged 
forward, poised to dig deeper and uncover the rest of his 
Clanmate, but Stoneteller stopped him with a paw on his 
shoulder. 

“Careful,” he meowed. “Don’t bring down any more on 
top of him.” 


Graystripe nodded understanding. Together he and 
Stormfur scraped cautiously at the dirt, freeing Flipclaw bit 
by bit: his hindquarters and the length of his body, and at 
last his head and his outstretched forepaws. Finally they 
were able to lift himclear and lay him on the grass well away 
from the landslide. 

Flipclaw didn’t move. His pelt was covered with soil and 
grit; his jaws gaped open, clogged with earth, and his eyes 
were closed. Not even his whiskers twitched. 

“He’s dead!” Graystripe choked out. He felt a clutching 
in his chest as panic gripped him. 

This is my fault. I brought him here. IfI hadnt, he would 
still be alive, maybe back in ThunderClan, or exploring 
with Flywhisker and Snaptooth. 

“Let me look.” Stoneteller shouldered Graystripe aside 
and crouched beside the motionless tom. “We won’t give up 
yet.” 

Gently he began to paw at the dirt in Flipclaw’s mouth, 
freeing his airway so that he could breathe. Graystripe 
couldn’t bear to watch. Instead he raised his head to gaze at 
the sky. 

The moon floated above the peaks, seeming almost close 
enough to touch. The mountains looked beautiful under the 
flood of silver light, but Graystripe’s heart ached at the 
thought of the deadly hazards beneath the beauty. 

His gaze was drawn to one rock in particular, a narrow 


pinnacle stretching upward like a cat’s raised paw. Under the 
moonlight it seemed to glow, dazzling and ice-cold. 

That must be what the Moonstone looks like, Graystripe 
thought, blinking against the blaze. 

A cough distracted him, along with a quivering cry from 
Brook. “He’s alive!” 

Looking down again, Graystripe saw Flipclaw’s body 
convulsing as he coughed up mouthfuls of grit and earth. 
His eyes fluttered open and gazed up in blank confusion. 

“What happened?” he rasped. 

“There was a landslide, and you were buried,” Stormfur 
explained, resting a calming paw on Flipclaw’s shoulder. 
“Just take it easy, and you’ll be fine.” 

“Can you stand up?” Stoneteller asked. 

Flipclaw tried to scramble to his paws, only to let out a 
gasp of pain and collapse again as one of his hind legs 
refused to support him. “My leg ... I think it’s broken.” 

Stoneteller bent over the hind leg that had given way 
and felt along its length, his gaze fixed in concentration. 
Graystripe watched him, sick with anxiety. What will happen 
to Flipclaw now? Will his leg heal properly? How will he 
ever get home to ThunderClan? 

Finally Stoneteller sat up. “The leg isn’t broken,” he 
announced. “Just dislocated. I can put it back into its 
socket.” Glancing around, he continued, “Stormfur, hold his 
shoulders down. Graystripe, keep his other hind leg still.” 


“Will it hurt?” Flipclaw asked nervously. 

“Yes, but it will be over quickly,” the Healer replied. 
Placing one forepaw on Flipclaw’s hindquarter, he grasped 
his leg with his other forepaw and gave a swift, firm thrust. 
Flipclaw let out an earsplitting screech, but Graystripe, 
bending close, could still hear the soft click as the leg slid 
back into place. 

Stoneteller gave a satisfied nod. “Now try to get up.” 

Trembling with the reaction, Flipclaw struggled to his 
paws and tentatively put weight on the injured leg. “Hey, 
that’s much better!” he exclaimed. He took a few paw steps 
to and fro, and though he was limping, he obviously wasn’t 
in much pain. “Thanks, Stoneteller!” 

“My pleasure,” the Healer murmured. More briskly, he 
added, “Even so, you’d better not try walking back to the 
cave. Climb up on my back.” As Flipclaw hung back, clearly 
reluctant, Stoneteller gave an impatient flick of his tail. 
“Come on. We haven’t got all night.” 

Flipclaw scrambled up onto Stoneteller’s back, digging 
his claws deep into the older cat’s fur. Stormfur steadied him 
as the Healer moved off, and the rest of the cats followed. 

Graystripe was preparing to bring up the rear when he 
thought he heard a distant voice calling his name from 
somewhere behind him. Glancing over his shoulder, he gazed 
once more at the tall, shining rock. This time a cat was 
poised at the very top; though she was far away, he could 


make out every hair on her pelt and her soft, plumy tail, and 
see the glow of love in her blue eyes. 

“Feathertail!” he gasped. 

He wanted to spring up, to twine tails with his lost, 
beloved daughter and drink in her sweet scent. But the rock 
was too far away; trying to climb up there would be too 
hazardous. It was as inaccessible as the distant 
Moonstone. ... 

Feathertail stared at him for a long moment, her silver 
pelt shimmering brightly. Then her unblinking blue gaze fell 
to the rock beneath her paws. She looked up at Graystripe 
again, narrowing her eyes and pushing her head forward. 

As if shes trying to make me understand something, he 
thought. But what? 

He opened his mouth to call out a question, but 
hesitated. A sudden image of Firestar flickered through his 
mind. As Feathertail again stared pointedly down at the rock 
on which she stood, Graystripe felt like whatever she was 
trying to tell him was a piece of prey in his mind, one he was 
so close to catching. 

Stoneteller 5 cave reminded me of the Moonstone, and 
now Feathertail has appeared on this rock, which looks 
just the way Firestar described it to me. . . . Were the 
ancestral spirits trying to make him remember the 
Moonstone? Why? 

Graystripe’s paws tingled with excitement as he began to 


realize what was happening. When he looked back to 
Feathertail, he saw a teasing light in her eyes, her muzzle 
pursed in amusement. 

He nodded at her. “I’m a stupid furball,” he muttered to 
himself. “I asked for a sign, and when it came, I almost 
ignored it!” 

Thoughts were flickering through his mind like minnows 
in a pool. Is it possible that the reason we cant 
communicate with StarClan is the Moonpool, not StarClan 
itself? After all, the Tribe can still contact their ancestors. 
And our medicine cats never had trouble contacting our 
ancestors at the Moonstone. 

But that was back in the old territories. Graystripe’s 
excitement grew as he wondered whether he was being 
guided back there—or back to whatever was left of it—to 
find the Moonstone. Could I find StarClan for the Clans? 
Certainty began to swell inside him as he realized that there 
might be a purpose to his leaving his Clan, beyond what was 
happening in his own head. Perhaps he could carry out an 
important service for ThunderClan! Then I wouldnt have to 
feel guilty about leaving Squirrelflight. Maybe I'll return to 
her with vital news! 

“Graystripe!” That was Brook’s voice, close by and with 
an edge of impatience. “Don’t get left behind. You’ll never 
find your way back by yourself.” 

Tuming, Graystripe saw that the tabby she-cat was 


waiting for him at the edge of the plateau. Stoneteller and the 
other cats had already vanished. 

“Sorry. Pm coming,” he meowed. 

As he followed Brook, he cast a final glance back at the 
rock. Feathertail had disappeared, and the unnatural glow 
had faded, its work done. “Good-bye, Feathertail,” he 
whispered. Glimpsing her again had reopened the wound of 
her loss, and yet, as he quickened his pace to catch up with 
the others, he felt grateful for the reassurance that she still 
lived on among the stars. 

Shes shown me a way that I can solve the Clans’ 
problems, he thought. I know now what I have to do—1 
must see if StarClan will send me a message through the 
Moonstone. Tomorrow Iwill set out for our old territory. 


CHAPTER 10 


Se 


— Then — 


As Graystripe limped painfully back to camp following 
BloodClan's attack, he heard rustling in the undergrowth 
ahead of him. Stiffening, still afraid that BloodClan might still 
be lurking around, he crouched down behind a gnarled oak 
root and tasted the air, only to relax as strong ThunderClan 
scent wafted over him. A moment later, Ashfur, Thornclaw, 
and Cloudtail emerged from a clump of ferns. 

Graystripe rose to meet them. “Thank StarClan it's you!” 
he exclaimed. “Have you seen Brambleclaw and Dustpelt?” 

“Yes, they're both back in camp,” Thornclaw replied, 
“and they sent us to find you. Dustpelt was afraid that you 
were dead.” 

“Not yet,” Graystripe responded grimly. “But that might 
change if we don’t do something about BloodClan. We have 
to drive them off before they get any more of a claw into our 
territory.” 

Escorted by his Clanmates, Graystripe returned to the 
camp and headed toward the medicine cat’s den. As he 
approached, Dustpelt appeared from the fern tunnel; he was 
moving stiffly, and he had a poultice plastered to one 
shoulder with cobwebs to keep it in place. 


“Are you okay?” Graystripe asked. 

“PI live,” Dustpelt replied sourly. “But right now I'm 
going back to my nest, to sleep for a moon!” 

“Before you do,” Graystripe began, thinking this was as 
good a time as any to confront his Clanmate, “what’s this I 
hear about Ashfur pushing for you to be deputy?” 

Dustpelt, who had started to move away, whipped 
around and stared at him, blank astonishment in his amber 
eyes, That look was all the evidence Graystripe needed that 
his Clanmate had known nothing about Ashfur’s demands. 

“What? ” he choked out. 

“Ashfur tells me that I ought to appoint you deputy 
while Firestar is away,” Graystripe explained, his tone even. 
“And maybe after Firestar comes back, too, if I read him 
right.” 

Dustpelt looked appalled. He wasn’t a cat who was 
easily confused, but for a moment he scuffled his claws in 
the earth of the camp floor, seeming as bewildered as a kit 
out of the nursery for the first time. 

“Graystripe, I promise you, I knew nothing about this,” 
he mewed hoarsely. “Or, no—I heard one or two rumors, but 
there are always rumors, especially now that the Clan is 
unsettled, with our leader away. I paid no attention, and 
Ashfur has never spoken to me directly. Is any other cat in 
on this?” 

Graystripe tilted his head, thinking. “Cloudtail . .. maybe 


Mousefur. But it’s Ashfur who is at the bottom of it.” 

Dustpelt was rapidly recovering his composure. “Of 
course Га like to be deputy—what cat wouldn’t?” he 
admitted. His mouth twisted with sardonic amusement. “But 
I know that with Firestar as leader, it’s never going to 
happen. Гт пої his favorite cat—or yours, either. But what I 
am is a loyal ThunderClan warrior. If I think you’re—or 
Firestar is about to do something particularly mouse- 
brained, you can bet your tails Г tell you about it. But when 
it comes to claws, with BloodClan or any other enemy, ГЇЇ 
back you all the way.” He paused, then added in a curiously 
humble tone, “Do you believe me, Graystripe?” 

Graystripe remembered how he and Dustpelt had fought 
back to back against the overwhelming numbers of the 
BloodClan patrol. “Every word, Dustpelt,” he replied. 

“Thank you. As for Ashfur,” Dustpelt continued, “you 
can leave him to me. Pll soon give hima flea in his ear. And if 
I hear one more word of this, ГЇЇ make him wish he’d never 
been kitted. He would always argue, you know,” he went on, 
“even when he was an apprentice. If I wanted to hunt near 
Snakerocks, he would complain that Fourtrees was better. 
Well,” he finished, “it’s about time he learned he can’t 
always have his own way.” 

With a nod to the tabby warrior, Graystripe headed into 
the medicine cat’s den. Thankfulness flooded over him to 
think that on top of all his other problems he didn’t have to 


worry about a rebellion in his own camp, or cats 
undermining him when they ought to be giving him their 
support. 

At the end of the fern tunnel, he found Cinderpelt 
dabbing herb pulp onto Longtail’s eyes. 

“That should help,” she mewed briskly, before turning to 
Graystripe. “Thank StarClan you’re back,” she continued. 
“Dustpelt told me what happened. Where does it hurt?” 

“Everywhere!” Graystripe responded. 

He flopped down and began to clean his fur, while 
Cinderpelt fetched herbs from the cleft in the rock at the far 
side of her den. Then she gave Graystripe a good sniff from 
ears to tail. 

“That doesn’t look too bad,” she meowed. “Mostly just 
scratches, and I guess you'll have bruises later. There are a 
few bites, and we’ll need to keep an eye on those. I think 
you should stay here in my den for a couple of days. For 
now, let’s get you started with marigold.” 

While Graystripe relaxed and let the medicine cat treat 
his wounds, he began to hear voices coming from outside 
the den. 

“It worries me, the way the BloodClan cats thrashed 
Graystripe and an entire patrol just now.” Graystripe 
recognized Ashfur’s voice. “Firestar would have weathered 
the attack better. Maybe Graystripe just isn’t up to leading 


” 


us. 


So Dustpelt hasnt spoken to him yet, Graystripe 
thought. I hope he gets a move on. 

“But there were eight of them!” That was Brambleclaw’s 
voice, raised in protest. “What were three cats supposed to 
do?” 

“Where is Firestar, anyway?” Cloudtail grumbled. 
Clearly, he and the older warriors weren’t taking much notice 
of Brambleclaw. “His Clan is in danger, and he should be 
here. A leader belongs with his Clan.” 

“Maybe Firestar hasn’t gone on a journey for StarClan at 
all” Mousefur suggested. “I said it earlier and ГЇЇ say it 
again— maybe he’s gone back to his kittypet life.” 

Graystripe let out a tiny growl of irritation. 

“Did I hurt you?” Cinderpelt asked, pausing in her 
application of cobwebs to a particularly bloody scratch. 

“No, not at all” Graystripe replied. He glanced outside, 
and Cinderpelt followed his gaze, then gave him a knowing 
look. 

“Perhaps,” she said, returning her attention to the 
cobwebs, “you just need to refocus your attention.” 

Graystripe twitched his whiskers in amusement. / 
suppose shes right—I cant let every little thing I overhear 
get to me. He glanced around the den and saw Longtail 
shifting around in his nest. “I wish I could see,” he 
complained, his whiskers twitching in frustration. “Then I 
might be more help.” 


“It's not your fault, Longtail,” Graystripe reassured him. 
“Rest up, and you’ll feel better soon.” But as the other tom 
settled down, Graystripe leaned close to Cinderpelt. 

“I can’t stay here for long,” he said softly. “Whatever 
the warriors believe about him, Firestar left me in charge. ГІІ 
have to lead ThunderClan against our enemies.” 


The next morning, Graystripe awoke to the sound of rain 
drumming on the roof of interlaced ferns that covered the 
medicine cat’s den. Some drops were getting through, 
trickling into his fur. Shivering with the chill, he rose to his 
paws. Longtail was still curled up asleep in his nest, but 
Cinderpelt raised her head and gave Graystripe a doubtful 
look. 

“Are you sure youre fit for this?” she asked. 

“Т feel absolutely fine,” Graystripe lied. In fact, he felt as 
if every fox in the forest had been tearing at him with claws 
and fangs. “We need to get moving.” 

He dragged himself out into the open, cringing under the 
onslaught of the rain, and splashed his way across the camp 
until he could slip between the branches of the warriors’ 
den. Most of the cats were still asleep; under ordinary 
circumstances, no patrols would go out until the worst of 
the rain eased off. 

“Wake up!” he yowled. “We have to deal with 
BloodClan.” 

The warriors began to stir, letting out groans at the 


thought of leaving their cozy nests. When Cloudtail stuck 
his head up, scraps of moss clung to his white fur. “You’re 
joking, right?” 

Graystripe didn’t bother to reply. He waited, rain 
streaming from his fur, until the Clan woke fully. 

“You all know that BloodClan is back,” Graystripe 
meowed when he confirmed that every cat was listening. 
“Today we need to survey our entire territory and search for 
any sign of them. I want two groups to patrol the border in 
opposite directions. Dustpelt, Brambleclaw, you’re not fit to 
go out after yesterday’s battle, but you can stay here to 
guard the camp.” 

“BloodClan won’t get in here!” Brambleclaw promised 
him. 

“Good.” Graystripe gave his Clanmates a brisk nod. He 
was trying to seem strong and decisive, but he was chilled 
by more than the rain when he thought about what might 
happen if they did find the BloodClan cats today. Still, 1 
have to stay strong for ThunderClan. “Sort yourselves out,” 
he finished. “ГЇЇ lead one patrol; Ashfur, you can lead the 
other.” 

Maybe giving him some responsibility will stop him 
complaining. 


Thick clouds had covered the sky all day, and the 
gradual fading of the light was the only sign that the sun 
was going down. Graystripe shook rain from his fur and 


peered into the forest, scenting the air near the site of the 
previous day’s battle. Throughout the day, his patrols had 
been searching for the BloodClan cats, crossing the forest 
from end to end after the border patrol had been completed, 
and they hadn’t found so much as a whisker. But the rain— 
stopping and starting again ever since the cloudburst of the 
morning—made it hard to pick up scent. It was unsettling, 
how thoroughly the rain had washed away any sign of 
yesterday’s bloodshed. Graystripe felt a worm of uneasiness 
in his belly at the thought of what they might have missed. 

Beside him, Mousefur gave her pelt a shake. “Let’s head 
back to camp,” she suggested. 

“That’s the best idea I’ve heard all day,’ Thornclaw 
agreed. “We’re all tired and hungry.” 

Graystripe was surprised that Thornclaw would admit to 
being tired, but then he spotted the tabby warrior glancing 
at his apprentice, Sootpaw. The small gray tom was 
shivering, and looked utterly worn out and miserable. 

“Come on, Graystripe,” Mousefur urged him. “We're 
doing no good out here.” 

“Yes, we can’t search the forest forever,” Cloudtail 
meowed. “I know that we need to keep a watch for 
BloodClan, but we have to take care of our Clan first. We 
need time to hunt and rest, as well as patrol.” 

“Okay.” Graystripe knew that his Clanmates were right. 
“Let’s go.” 


But as he led the way back to camp, he couldn’t stop 
glancing over his shoulder, his pelt prickling nervously. 
Because there was no way to track BloodClan’s scent in the 
rain, he was acutely aware that the rogue cats could be 
anywhere. He expected at any moment to see eyes in the 
gathering dark, looking back at him. 

You can lurk and spy on us all you want, he thought 
grimly. But I wont let you take ThunderClan. ... 


CHAPTER 11 


Se 


— Now — 


“I have to leave,” Graystripe meowed. “This moring. 
Now.” 

He and Stormfur were standing by the screen of 
perpetually falling water, where morning light dappled the 
floor. Most of the Tribe cats had gone out on patrol, and the 
cave was almost empty. 

“But why?” There was hurt and a trace of anger in 
Stormfur’s eyes as he gazed at his father. “I thought you 
were going to stay for a good long time—maybe forever.” 
He pressed his nose into his father’s shoulder. “You’re our 
kin. You’d be welcome in the Tribe.” 

For a heartbeat, Graystripe ached to accept his offer, 
longed to stay here where he had kin and friends, far away 
from the troubles of ThunderClan. He knew how impossible 
that was, how he would never forgive himself һе didn’t do 
all he could for his Clan. Yet he still wondered what would 
have happened if he had stayed in RiverClan with Stormfur 
and Feathertail, had been more of a presence in their lives. 
Seeing all his kin here was a sweet but painful reminder of a 
part of his life he rarely thought about now... and how 
easily it might all have gone in another direction. 


What would have happened if Silverstream had lived, 
and we could have been a real family? Graystripe’s heart 
ached with the question. Everything would have been so 
different! 

“Thank you, but no,” he mewed regretfully to Stormfur. 
“Т can’t stay. I need to travel to our old territory and see if I 
can help the Clans by visiting the Moonstone.” 

Stormfur blinked at him in surprise. “Why on earth 
would you want to do that?” he asked. 

“I had a... a kind of a sign, last night,” Graystripe 
explained. “I saw a rock out there shining in the moonlight, 
and it looked just the way the Moonstone must look.” 

“Rocks shine in the moonlight all the time,” Stormfur 
pointed out, clearly unconvinced. 

“Т know, but this was . . . different.” Graystripe knew that 
he could never convey to Stormfur or any cat how the sight 
of the glowing rock had made him feel. But there was one 
thing that Stormfur especially wouldn’t be able to ignore. “I 
saw Feathertail,” he added. 

Stormfur’s eyes widened, and he let out a gasp of 
astonishment. “Feathertail? Really? How was she?” 

“Beautiful as always.” Graystripe had known that 
Stormfur wouldn’t be able to dismiss a sign that had come 
from his sister. “It was like she was showing me the rock, 
and telling me to go to the Moonstone.” 

“T see.” For a moment Stormfur blinked thoughtfully. 


“But I still don’t understand what good you think it will do.” 

“Stoneteller can still contact the Tribe of Endless 
Hunting,” Graystripe replied, “so what if what’s keeping 
StarClan from contacting us isn’t StarClan itself, but the 
Moonpool? Maybe something is blocking the contact there, 
or it’s just not the right place anymore.” 

To Graystripe’s disappointment, Stormfur just looked 
confused, eyeing him doubtfully. 

Graystripe tried to explain. “You know that the 
Moonstone is how the medicine cats used to speak with 
StarClan back in the old forest territory. If I travel back there 
and visit the Moonstone, I can try to contact StarClan, and 
maybe even Firestar, that way! And maybe they can tell me 
how to make the connection again by the lake.” 

At last he saw understanding begin to dawn in 
Stormfur’s eyes. “Well, I wish you luck with that,’ he 
murmured. “I have to admit I would like to see our territory 
again. If it weren’t for Brook and my kin here in the Tribe, I 
might come with you. Fish from the pool below the waterfall 
just doesn’t taste the same. And I miss the sound of the 
river, gurgling through the reeds at the edge of the RiverClan 


camp 


“ 


” 


t won’t be like that now,” Graystripe reminded him. “I 
have to keep telling myself that, so I’m prepared. The 
Twolegs did so much damage before we left, so who knows 
what they’ve done to the territories by now? I may not even 


recognize our old hunting grounds. It’s possible the 
Moonstone won’t even be there anymore.” 

His son gave his pelt a shake. “True. Maybe it’s better 
not to know. But, Graystripe,” he went on hesitantly, “no 
matter what happens, you’ll always have a place here... . 
Maybe after you try to contact StarClan, you’ll reconsider 
settling down with us?” 

“TI think about it,” Graystripe promised, though he 
wasn’t ready to predict whether he’d be looking for a new 
place to settle, or returning to ThunderClan. ту journey is 
successful, the answer will be clear. “ГЇЇ certainly come back 
for another visit on my way home.” 

“And what about Flipclaw?” Stormfur continued. “Will 
he want to come with you? I don’t think he’ll be fit to travel 
for a day or two at least.” 

“I don’t think he’ll want to come,” Graystripe responded 
after a moment’s thought. His paws were itching to be on his 
way; he certainly didn’t want to waste time here in the 
Tribe’s territory until Flipclaw’s leg was properly healed. “In 
fact, I think he might like to stay here. He’s really 
enthusiastic about your way of life, and he’s getting along 
very well with Feather.” 

Stormfur nodded agreement. “Yes, Pd noticed that. Well, 
he’d have to get permission from our Healer, but I can’t see 
Stoneteller turning down a trained warrior.” 

“We'd better go and ask Flipclaw,” Graystripe meowed. 


Stormfur led the way across the cavern to where Flipclaw 
was sitting in his sleeping hollow, vigorously grooming his 
fur. He looked up as the two older toms approached. “Hi, 
Graystripe, Stormfur,” he greeted them. 

“How are you feeling, Flipclaw?” Graystripe asked. 

“Fine,” Flipclaw replied. “Except I don’t think ГЇЇ ever get 
all this grit out of my fur. Stoneteller came to see me earlier,” 
he went on. “He says my leg is going to be okay, but I need 
to rest it fora few days.” 

“Good,” Graystripe purred. “And that’s partly what I 
want to talk to you about. I had a sign last night, and I need 
to go back to the old territories, to see if I can speak to 
StarClan through the Moonstone. Maybe even see Firestar 
again.” 

Flipclaw blinked in bewilderment. “The Moonstone?” 

“Where our medicine cats used to make contact with the 
spirits of our warrior ancestors, when we lived in the old 
forest,” Graystripe explained. “Didn’t the elders tell you any 
of those stories when you were a kit?” 

“Oh, sure, now I remember. And you actually want to go 
back there?” Flipclaw asked, sounding as if he felt the whole 
idea was seriously weird, but he was too polite to say so. 

Graystripe couldn’t bear to repeat all the reasons he had 
come to his decision. “The thing is,” he continued, “I feel I 
have to leave right away. It can’t wait until you’re fit to 
travel.” 


“Oh, that’s okay, Graystripe. Actually . . .” Flipclaw 
hesitated for a moment, looking slightly ashamed of himself. 
“Гуе decided to go back to ThunderClan,” he admitted at 
last. 

Graystripe felt as surprised as if one of the pointed 
stones had broken off the roof and landed on his head. “I 
thought you would want to stay here.” 

“Here?” Flipclaw shuddered. “Where the territory falls 
on top of you and buries you? No thanks—it’s far too 
dangerous.” He glanced guiltily at Stormfur, who stood at 
Graystripe’s shoulder. “I think the Tribe is great, especially 
Feather,” he added, “and I’ve loved visiting you here in the 
mountains, but living here just isn’t for me. Sorry.” 

“No need to apologize,” Stormfur assured him. “I quite 
understand.” 

“The Moonstone sounds really cool, and I hope going 
there works,” Flipclaw went on, “but .. . well, I miss my kin, 
and seeing the Tribe together has made me realize that I 
don’t need to travel any farther to know where I belong.” 

“Tf you’re sure...” Graystripe began. 

Flipclaw gave his chest fur a couple of embarrassed 
licks. “If Pm being honest, I had the idea it would be exciting 
to leave the Clan, and it has been, traveling here, 
but ... well, ThunderClan is my home.” 

Graystripe knew he would miss his traveling companion, 
but he was already reconciled to losing him, and he 


understood that Flipclaw was feeling the pull of his own 
Clan. And once Flipclaw had realized he had no chance with 
Flywhisker, Graystripe imagined that his whole adventure 
had fallen apart. Besides, Flipclaw had never lived in the old 
forest. The Moonstone was just a word to him, not a 
memory ora place. He had no reason to want to go there. 

“Firestar” is just a word, too, Graystripe thought sadly. 
Flipclaw never knew ThunderClans great leader... my 
friend. 

“Are you sure you can find your way home?” he asked. 

By this time the hunting patrols were returning to the 
cavern, and Brook padded over, carrying a piece of fresh-kill, 
in time to hear the last part of the conversation. 

“When you’re ready to leave, you can have an escort 
down the mountain, Flipclaw,” she meowed. “Feather and 
Pine will go with you.” 

“Thank you!” Flipclaw’s eyes shone happily. “And after 
that, I can follow our scent trail back,’ he assured 
Graystripe. “Even after a few days, there should be traces 
left, provided there’s no heavy rain.” 

“Just be careful, that's all,” Graystripe warned him. “And 
go easy on that leg.” 

“Sure I will.” Flipclaw’s gleaming gaze was fixed on the 
fresh-kill Brook had set down beside his sleeping hollow. “Is 
that for me?” he asked. “Oh, Brook, thank you. I’m 
starving!” 


Golden light poured through the screen of falling water 
as Graystripe prepared to set out fromthe Tribe’s cavern. 

“It's been great to see you again,” he told Stormfur and 
the rest of his kin; they had gathered to say good-bye near 
the entrance to the path leading behind the waterfall and out 
onto the mountainside. Gazing at the younger cats, he was 
almost overwhelmed by the thought of the legacy he was 
leaving, here in the Tribe, so far away from his home. “Thank 
you for looking after us, especially Flipclaw,” he continued. 
He dipped his head to Stoneteller, who stood a little apart. 
“And thank you for your guidance,” he added. 

Stoneteller nodded. “I was happy to give it.” 

“Lark and Breeze will escort you down the mountain,” 
Stormfur meowed, beckoning the two young cats forward. 
“It's dangerous when you don’t know the way. They can 
take you to where the prey-hunters met the rogue who was 
asking about you. Maybe he/ll still be somewhere in that 
area.” 

Flipclaw’s accident, and the sign he had received from 
Feathertail, had driven the memory of the rogue out of 
Graystripe’s mind. Now he remembered what Stormfur had 
told him; his pelt prickled uneasily as he wondered who this 
mysterious cat could be. J hope he wont cause trouble, 
especially now that Ihave a mission to carry out. 

Graystripe thanked his son and looked around for 
Flipclaw, who had limped across the cavern to touch his 


nose to Graystripe’s. 

“Good-bye, then.” Graystripe mewed, touching his nose 
to the young warrior’s. “May StarClan light your path.” 

“And yours, Graystripe. Good-bye! ГЇЇ see you soon, 
back in ThunderClan’s camp.” 

I hope so, Graystripe thought. He still didn’t know 
whether his plan to visit the Moonstone would work, or 
where it would lead him. But he truly hoped it would set his 
paws on the path back to ThunderClan. 

Suppressing a sigh, he let his gaze travel once more over 
his kin. Then he turned with his escort in the direction that 
would take him, eventually, to the old forest. 

As Graystripe padded away, he glanced back over his 
shoulder and saw that Stormfur had emerged from the end of 
the path and was standing beside the thundering water. He 
raised his tail in farewell. Graystripe was aware of his son 
watching him until he followed his guides around a large 
boulder and his paw steps carried him out of Stormfur’s 
sight. 


This is weird. I’ve never traveled alone before. 

Several sunrises had passed since Graystripe had left the 
Tribe’s mountain, and he was picking his way carefully 
through a patch of thin woodland. He liked the feeling of 
walking under trees again, but he couldn’t get used to being 
on his own. In the past, he had always been with his Clan, or 
with Firestar, and the one time he’d been separated from 


them he had journeyed to find them with Millie by his side. 

Thinking of Millie sent a stab of pain through Graystripe, 
but it soothed him somehow to remember her 
companionship on their travels, when they were young and 
in love. She had been so brave while they were wandering in 
unfamiliar territory, so determined never to give up. He 
wouldn’t even have found his way out of the Twolegplace 
where he had been a kittypet if Millie hadn’t discovered him, 
starving and in despair, and set his paws on the right path. 

Since he had said good-bye to Lark and Breeze at the 
edge of the mountains, Graystripe had kept alert for any 
traces of the rogue who had been asking about him, but 
there had been nothing: no scent, no signs of captured prey, 
not even a paw mark. Graystripe guessed that the cat had 
given up his search and gone home. 

Ahead of him, Graystripe could see the edge of the 
wood, and he paused for a moment, pricking his ears and 
opening his jaws to taste the air. There was more chance of 
coming across prey here amid the undergrowth than in the 
open country beyond. 

After a few heartbeats, he was rewarded with the scent 
of mouse, and he managed to pinpoint the tiny creature 
scuffling about in the debris beneath an ash tree. Graystripe 
dropped into a hunter’s crouch and edged his way forward, 
setting each paw down as lightly as he could and hardly 
daring to breathe. 


Just before he came within pouncing distance, a whisper 
of breeze sprang up, carrying his scent toward the mouse. It 
raised its head in alarm, whiskers quivering. Graystripe 
lunged toward it as it began to scuttle off, and slammed both 
forepaws down on the tiny body. 

Still got it, he thought with satisfaction. As he 
straightened up, he glanced at the sky, questioning. Oh, why 
not. “Thank you, StarClan, for this prey.” 

When he had gulped down his fresh-kill, relishing every 
warm, juicy bite, Graystripe made for the edge of the wood, 
his belly feeling comfortably full. As he padded out of the 
trees, the view ahead of him opened up, and he could see a 
long way into the distance. He caught his breath as his gaze 
snagged on a familiar sight. Three jagged peaks surrounded 
a dark, square opening, impossibly small from this distance. 
There, outlined against the sky, so far away and yet so 
familiar, was Highstones. 

“Almost home!” Even though the old territory wasn’t 
home anymore, Graystripe’s heart lifted with excitement. No 
matter how things had changed, it would be good to see the 
old forest again. Surely some of the places he remembered 
would have survived the marauding Twolegs. Filled with 
new energy, he raced across a broad stretch of grass toward 
a line of bushes beyond. 

Pushing his way through the bushes, Graystripe realized 
that he was on the edge of a wide Thunderpath. Full of 


enthusiasm to reach his old home, he had completely 
ignored the acrid scent that should have alerted him. He 
paused briefly to listen for monsters, but the sight of 
Highstones in the distance pulled him eagerly forward. 

He was halfway across the hard, black surface when a 
sudden growl filled the air and a Twoleg monster came 
whipping around a bend in the Thunderpath. Its acrid 
stench rolled over Graystripe, and for a heartbeat he froze, 
unable to go on or go back. The monster veered, letting out 
a fearsome screech, and at the last moment Graystripe 
dashed out from underneath its round, black paws and flung 
himself into the bushes on the far side. 

Crouching there, his heart pounding as if it might break 
out of his chest, Graystripe tried to catch his breath and stop 
himself from shaking. 

You idiot furball! he scolded himself. Any cat would 
take you for an apprentice out of camp for the first time! 

The monster jerked to a halt, and three Twolegs emerged 
from its belly. Graystripe peered out from his shelter, 
watching themas they rushed around, calling to one another 
and looking around in all directions. 

They те looking for me, Graystripe realized, too terrified 
to do more than hunch his shoulders and try to shrink 
himself smaller than a mouse. What if they find me? I cant 
get taken by Twolegs, not again, especially not now that I’m 
on such an important journey. 


Facing the danger of capture reminded himof Millie once 
more, of his time with her in the Twolegplace, and of their 
escape together. He had found it hard to believe that a 
kittypet could learn how to survive in the forest as quickly 
as Millie had. Remembering her determination helped him 
shake away his fear of recapture. Millie had given him hope 
when they first came upon the old ThunderClan camp, 
wrecked and deserted. She had told him that even though 
his home was gone, his Clan, and the warrior code, still 
survived. No matter what happens, he resolved, ГЇЇ find my 
way back to ThunderClan, just as we did before. 

The Twolegs had turned away, beginning to search 
among the bushes on the other side of the Thunderpath. 
Graystripe waited until they were all looking in the opposite 
direction, then slid silently out ofhis hiding place and fled. 


CHAPTER 12 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe slipped out of the warriors’ den, sat down, 
fluffed out his pelt, and looked around the ThunderClan 
camp. After the torrential rain of the previous day, the sun 
was shining, and wisps of mist were rising from the puddles 
on the camp floor Warriors had been patrolling for 
BloodClan, but no signs of the rogues had been found, and 
prey was running well, leaving the fresh-kill pile well 
stocked. Graystripe could feel some of his Clanmates 
beginning to relax. 

High-pitched squeals caught Graystripe’s attention, and 
he blinked in amusement as he spotted Ferncloud’s kits, 
Spiderkit and Shrewkit, chasing each other around the 
Highrock. But his amusement didn’t last for long. He was 
aware that the thom barrier around the camp wouldn’t keep 
out a determined attacker, and he felt as edgy as if he were 
stepping into a fox’s den. All his senses were alert for the 
first signs of BloodClan. 

Those cats wont give up, he thought. I know they те 
watching, biding their time. 

Brackenfur appeared at the entrance to the gorse tunnel, 
at the head of the returning border patrol. As soon as he 


spotted him, he bounded across to Graystripe. 

“Any sign?” Graystripe asked urgently, rising to his 
paws. 

Brackenfur shook his head. “Not a whisker. I don’t know 
if that’s a good thing or a bad thing. It’s not like we don’t 
know they’re out there. And there was no sign of WindClan, 
except for their border markers,” he added. “I reckon that 
proves it was BloodClan all along.” 

“Tt seems that way,” Graystripe agreed, remembering 
how the BloodClan leader had come close to confessing 
what her cats had done. “They’ve shown themselves now, 
so they don’t need a disguise anymore.” 

As Brackenfur padded off to choose a piece of prey from 
the fresh-kill pile, Graystripe kept puzzling over the threat of 
BloodClan. Jt was good of ShadowClan to warn us, he 
reflected. I think we ought to warn WindClan and 
RiverClan, and find out if they’ve seen any signs on their 
territories. 

Glancing around, Graystripe spotted Cloudtail heading 
for the gorse tunnel, his apprentice Rainpaw trailing along 
behind him. “Cloudtail!” he called, beckoning the white 
warrior with a flick of his tail. “Are you busy?” 

“I was going to take Rainpaw for some battle training in 
the sandy clearing,” Cloudtail replied, padding up to 
Graystripe. “He needs to get back into a routine, after...” 
He let his voice fade away with an expressive twitch of his 


whiskers. 

After his mother died, Graystripe thought. All three 
apprentices had been shattered by Willowpelt’s death at the 
claws of a badger, and it hadn’t been long since they had 
returned to their duties. 

“I think we can do something more exciting than that,” 
Graystripe meowed. “Rainpaw, how would you like to visit 
WindClan and RiverClan?” 

Rainpaw’s ears perked up at the idea. “Га like that. Гуе 
never been to their camps.” 

Pleased that he was showing an interest, Graystripe 
explained their mission to Cloudtail and led the way out of 
camp. As they climbed up the ravine and headed into the 
forest, he stayed alert for any signs of BloodClan, but he 
picked up nothing except tempting prey-scents and the smell 
of lush greenleaf vegetation. 

“Maybe you scared the mange-pelts off,” Cloudtail 
growled. 

“I don’t think so. BloodClan cats have never scared as 
easily as that,” Graystripe responded. 

Cloudtail snorted. “If they come near me, ГЇ rip their 
pelts offto line my nest. Ihave a kit to protect!” 

Graystripe gave hima nod of approval. Convinced as he 
was that BloodClan would return, he was glad that his Clan 
could rely on determined cats like Cloudtail. Even Ashfur, 
who was turning out to be a real pain in the tail, would be a 


brave and fierce fighter in defense of ThunderClan. 

Leading the way across the hollow of Fourtrees, 
Graystripe ordered his patrol to wait on the WindClan 
border. Ahead of them rose a swell of moorland, interrupted 
here and there by rocks poking out of the thin soil. A stiff 
breeze flattened the coarse moorland grass. 

“Т can see why it’s called WindClan,” Cloudtail muttered, 
letting his pelt bush out against the chill. 

Eventually a WindClan patrol appeared at the top of the 
moorland ridge. Spotting the ThunderClan cats, they raced 
down to meet them; as they drew closer, Graystripe 
recognized the tabby warrior Onewhisker in the lead, with 
Runningbrook and Webfoot following him. 

“Hi, Graystripe,” Onewhisker greeted him, hanging back 
on the other side of the border. “What can we do for you?” 

Hearing his cheerful tone, and seeing the friendly nods 
from the other WindClan warriors, Graystripe became even 
more convinced that WindClan hadn’t been stealing prey. 
They would surely have looked guiltier if they had. 

“We need to see Tallstar,” Graystripe told Onewhisker 
confidently. It felt good to be performing a familiar task; 
bringing a message was precisely the sort of thing he did all 
the time as Firestar’s deputy. “We’ve something important 
to discuss with him.” 

Onewhisker looked curious, but he knew better than to 
question another Clan’s deputy. He and the other WindClan 


cats escorted the ThunderClan patrol up the hill and down 
the other side, heading for a tangle of gorse at the bottom. 

“Where’s your camp?” Rainpaw asked, gazing around in 
confusion. 

“You’re looking at it,” Onewhisker replied, with a sweep 
of his tail toward the gorse bushes. 

“Really?” Rainpaw exclaimed. 

“Good, isn’t it?” Runningbrook asked with a smug smile. 
“You’d never know cats were there until you’re right on top 
ofus.” 

Rainpaw didn’t say any more, but his round eyes 
showed how impressed he was. 

Graystripe and his Clanmates followed the WindClan 
cats through the tough gorse stems; Graystripe suppressed 
a hiss of annoyance as the thoms raked deep into his fur, 
while the slender WindClan warriors passed through more 
easily. 

On the other side of the bushes, the ground sloped away 
into a sandy hollow. Onewhisker raced across it, calling out, 
“Tallstar!” and disappeared around a large boulder at the far 
end. Webfoot and Runningbrook stayed with the 
ThunderClan cats. 

After a few moments, Onewhisker reappeared, followed 
by the WindClan leader. Tallstar’s age was clear in his slow, 
deliberate movements and the graying fur around his muzzle, 
but he was still a formidable warrior. He beckoned with his 


tail for Graystripe and his patrol to come forward. 

“Greetings,” he meowed when they stood in front of him. 
“Why have you come to visit my Clan?” 

Graystripe dipped his head respectfully to the WindClan 
leader. “It's bad news, I’m afraid, Tallstar,” he replied. 
“BloodClan has been scented around ShadowClan and 
ThunderClan, and—” 

“What?” Tallstar interrupted, every hair on his pelt 
beginning to bristle. “Those crow-food-eating rogues 
causing trouble again? I thought we dealt with them last 
time.” 

“Not thoroughly enough, I’m sorry to say,” Graystripe 
mewed ruefully. “I take it you haven’t picked up any traces 
of them on your territory?” 

Tallstar shook his head. “If my warriors had scented a 
single BloodClan paw step anywhere near our borders, they 
would have told me,” he replied. Eyeing Graystripe more 
closely, he added, “I take it you’ve met them recently.” 

Graystripe was uncomfortably aware that his wounds 
had scarcely begun to heal. But he didn’t want to tell Tallstar 
how bad the attack had been, because he didn’t want the 
WindClan leader to think that ThunderClan was vulnerable. / 
know our Clans are friendly right now, but no cat knows 
how things might change. 

For the same reason, he said nothing about the way 
BloodClan had used WindClan scent to make ThunderClan 


believe that WindClan had been stealing prey on their 
territory. Tallstar could easily take offense at the idea that 
ThunderClan had suspected them for a single moment. 

“Let’s say they made it clear that they’re still interested 
in our territory,” Graystripe responded. “But I think we 
showed them that ThunderClan won’t give in without a 
fight.” 

Tallstar let out a long sigh. “Always fighting!” he 
complained. “And it’s harder for you in ThunderClan,” he 
went on, “with your leader ill. How is Firestar, by the way?” 

“Much better, thank you,” Graystripe replied, hoping he 
wouldn’t have to go into any more detail. He knew he wasn’t 
much good at lying, but he knew too that he had to keep 
Firestar’s absence a secret, both to conceal the truth about 
Firestar’s mission and to make ThunderClan appear strong. 
At the last Gathering, he had told the other Clans that the 
ThunderClan leader was sick. But how long can I keep up 
that pretense? 

To his relief, Tallstar appeared to accept what Graystripe 
told him. “Please give him my good wishes,” һе mewed. “As 
for BloodClan, we’ll keep a lookout for them. Thank you for 
warning us.” 

“You’re welcome,” Graystripe responded, dipping his 
head once more to the WindClan leader. He was very glad 
that he hadn’t taken his Clanmates’ advice to strike 
WindClan when the first stolen prey was found— what a 


disaster that would have been! Maybe I do have a leaders 
instincts. “And we’llbe sure to let you know if we encounter 
them again.” 

Leaving the WindClan camp, Graystripe and his patrol 
headed back toward Fourtrees. Rainpaw was still gazing 
around him in fascination at the strange territory; Graystripe 
was pleased to see that he was looking brighter than at any 
time since his mother’s death. Maybe hes starting to come 
out ofhis grief. 

The three cats skirted the Gathering hollow, then headed 
through the trees and paused before the Twoleg bridge into 
RiverClan territory. “Go on,” Graystripe encouraged them. 
Normally we'd wait at the border, but I have kin here, he 
reflected. We can bend the rules a bit. The border markers 
were fresh, as if a patrol had recently passed by, but there 
was no sign of any cats. Graystripe decided to head straight 
for the RiverClan camp. 

“Keep close to me, and be careful what you say,” he told 
his Clanmates as they padded alongside the river. 
“Leopardstar isn’t like Tallstar If she gets one whiff of 
weakness in ThunderClan, she’ll use it as a chance to take 
Sunningrocks.” 

Cloudtail slid his claws out. “She can try.” 

“Just do as I’ve suggested.” Graystripe flicked Cloudtail 
over the ear with the tip of his tail. “Haven’t we got enough 
trouble from BloodClan, without looking for it from 


RiverClan as well?” 

The white warrior rolled his eyes. “If you say so.” 

Long before they reached the RiverClan camp, 
Graystripe spotted two RiverClan warriors coming up the 
river to meet them. His pelt tingled with anticipation as he 
recognized the leader of the two as his son, Stormfur. 

He looks well, Graystripe thought at the sight of his 
son’s thick, glossy fur and confident stride. I’m so proud of 
him. 

He had been disappointed when Stormfur and his sister, 
Feathertail, had decided to return to RiverClan after the 
battle against BloodClan. Their mother, Silverstream, had 
been a RiverClan cat, but she was watching them from 
StarClan now. Graystripe had invited them both to join himin 
ThunderClan, because he wasn’t sure that he trusted 
Leopardstar to accept the two half-Clan cats as full members 
of her Clan. But his kits had chosen to help rebuild 
RiverClan after the devastation caused by Scourge and 
Tigerstar. Graystripe had reluctantly respected their choice. 

“Greetings, Graystripe,” Stormfur meowed, padding up 
to touch noses with his father. “We—great StarClan!” he 
exclaimed, his eyes widening at the sight of Graystripe’s 
wounds. “Have you been fighting a fox?” 

“Worse than that, I’m afraid,” Graystripe replied grimly. 
“But Leopardstar had better be the first to hear it, if we can 
speak to her.” 


“Of course,” Stormfur mewed, tuming to escort 
Graystripe downriver toward the RiverClan camp. 

Cloudtail and Rainpaw followed, while the other 
RiverClan warrior, a thickset tabby tom Graystripe 
recognized as Heavystep, brought up the rear. 

It was strange to be back in RiverClan’s camp. The 
RiverClan cats lived on an island close to the riverbank. 
Willow trees grew there, sheltering the Clan with their long, 
trailing branches, and the whole island was surrounded by 
reeds that hissed gently in the breeze. It was a cozy spot, 
but seeing it again only helped convince Graystripe that he 
belonged in ThunderClan. This is where my kits live, but it 
was never home. 

Graystripe paused before he stepped into the water. As 
long as he’d lived in RiverClan, he’d never gotten used to 
the sensation of getting his paws wet. He lifted his front leg, 
trying to convince himself to splash it down into the muck. 
Come on, Graystripe, an acting leader has to be brave 
enough to— 

Splash! Graystripe felt a flood of relief as Heavystep 
sloshed through the reeds with а wave of his tail. “PI fetch 
Leopardstar,” he called back over his shoulder. 

“Thank you!” Graystripe called after him, wondering 
whether Heavystep had noticed his hesitation. 

A few moments later, the reeds parted to reveal the 
spotted pelt of the RiverClan leader, who sprang nimbly onto 


the bank to confront Graystripe. Her deputy, Mistyfoot, 
followed her, and Graystripe was struck all over again by 
how much she resembled her mother, Bluestar, with the same 
thick blue-gray fur and blue eyes. 

“Well?” Leopardstar asked. Her voice was sharp, 
without any of the friendliness Tallstar had shown. “Why 
are you here?” 

Graystripe was aware of Rainpaw easing a little closer to 
his mentor, as ifhe was intimidated by the RiverClan leader’s 
brusque tones. Cloudtail gave his apprentice a reassuring 
touch on the shoulder with the tip of his tail. 

“We have bad news,” Graystripe told Leopardstar, 
describing how ShadowClan had scented BloodClan on their 
border, and how he and two other warriors had fought 
against them. He said nothing about the trick they’d used to 
make ThunderClan believe that WindClan had been stealing 
prey. 

“We’ve seen no sign of BloodClan on our territory,” 
Leopardstar responded when Graystripe had finished. “And 
you can be sure we’ll drive them off if we scent so much as а 
whisker.” 

Mistyfoot blinked worriedly. “I had hoped we’d chased 
off BloodClan once and for all,” she sighed. “I can’t believe 
they would dare to set paw in our forest after the way we 
drove them out. And now you tell us we have to do it all 
again!” 


Leopardstar gave her deputy a sharp look. “If we have to 
fight them again, then that is what we will do,” she meowed. 
“We are warriors!” Turning to Graystripe, she added, “What 
does Firestar think of all this?” 

Graystripe hadn’t been prepared for that question. 
“Не ...er...he said more or less what you just said,” he 
replied awkwardly. “We’re warriors; we can deal with this.” 

“Good.” Leopardstar’s eyes narrowed suspiciously. “We 
missed Firestar at the last Gathering,” she added. “I believe 
you said that he was sick?” 

“That’s right.” Graystripe twitched his tail awkwardly, 
desperately wondering how to escape from this 
conversation. “But he’s getting much better now.” And 1 
really have to be going. ... 

“Pm glad to hear it,” the RiverClan leader purred. “I seem 
to have forgotten. What was the matter with him?” 

You havent forgotten, because no cat told you, 
Graystripe thought, beginning to feel hot under his pelt. 
Was Leopardstar trying to catch him in a lie? He knew from 
his time in RiverClan that it wouldn’t be unlike the wily 
leader. He tried to think fast. “It was ... er... whitecough. 
But then it turned to greencough. He was very sick. He 
almost lost a life.” 

As he spoke, Graystripe caught a glare from Cloudtail’s 
blue eyes, and could almost hear what the white warrior 
wanted to say. Stop babbling! You’re taking the lie too far! 


“Really? Greencough in greenleaf?” Leopardstar licked 
one paw and drew it over her ear. “How unfortunate.” 

Graystripe swallowed hard. It was true—it was rare for a 
cat to develop greencough during the warmth of greenleaf. 
Which meant that not only was he lying to another Clan 
leader, he was lying poorly. He knew how badly he was 
handling this conversation. He was sure that Leopardstar 
didn’t believe him—either that, or she suspected that 
Firestar’s condition was much worse than Graystripe 
pretended, and was wondering how to tum that to 
RiverClan’s advantage. 

“Well, we really should be going,” Graystripe mewed, 
taking a few steps back. “It’s been nice talking to you, 
Leopardstar. We’ll be sure to tell you if we see any more of 
BloodClan.” 

The RiverClan leader didn’t respond, just stood on the 
bank watching Graystripe and his Clanmates with slitted 
eyes. 

It was Mistyfoot who spoke. “We’ll certainly let 
ThunderClan know if BloodClan turns up over here.” Her 
voice was friendly and her blue eyes were warm. 
“Meanwhile, Stormfur will escort you down to the stepping- 
stones. There’s no need for you to go all the way back by 
the Twoleg bridge.” 

“Thank you.” Graystripe dipped his head, pleased at the 
opportunity to spend a little more time with his son. 


Then, to his surprise, Mistyfoot turned back toward the 
camp and called out, “Feathertail!” 

Graystripe felt his heart swell as though it might burst at 
the sight of his beautiful daughter picking her way through 
the reeds and springing onto the riverbank. It had been too 
long since he had seen her! 

“Yes, Mistyfoot, what did you—’” she began, then broke 
off as she spotted Graystripe. Her plumy gray tail curled up 
with joy at the sight of her father, and she bounded forward 
to touch noses with him. She was purring too hard to speak. 

“I want you to escort these ThunderClan cats off our 
territory,’ Mistyfoot ordered. Her affectionate tone 
contradicted the sharp words. “Stormfur will go with you in 
case they give you any trouble.” 

“Oh, thank you, Mistyfoot!” Feathertail exclaimed. She 
flicked a glance at Leopardstar, who still stood silent, only 
waving her tail to indicate that they should all leave. 

With a respectful nod to the RiverClan leader, Graystripe 
turned away and headed downstream with his Clanmates 
and their RiverClan escort. 

“I remember you when you were in ThunderClan,” 
Rainpaw observed to Feathertail and Stormfur as they 
padded along. Graystripe was pleased to see that he looked 
much more cheerful now that they had left the prickly 
Leopardstar behind. “You were apprentices then.” 

“And you were a tiny kit,” Stormfur mewed, bending his 


head to touch Rainpaw’s ear with his nose. “And now look 
at you!Ihope you always listen to your mentor.” 

“No chance!” Cloudtail let out a mrrow of laughter. “But 
then ... he’s an apprentice. What can you expect?” 

“Тао too listen!” Rainpaw exclaimed indignantly. 

“Г sure you do.” Feathertail stroked her tail down the 
apprentice’s side. “Cloudtail was only joking.” 

Rainpaw turned an admiring gaze on her and her brother. 
“Гі be a warrior soon, like you,” he announced. 

Graystripe exchanged a glance with Cloudtail, and 
guessed that the white warrior was sharing his thought. 
Rainpaw and his littermates will make excellent warriors— 
if BloodClan gives them the chance. 

When they arrived at the stepping-stones, Cloudtail 
drew Rainpaw away fromthe others. “Let’s go on ahead,” he 
suggested. “We'll see if we can pick up some prey on the 
way back to camp, and you can try out that new hunting 
move I showed you.” 

“Great!” Rainpaw agreed enthusiastically. Turning, he 
waved his tail at the two RiverClan warriors. “Good-bye! I 
hope I see you at the next Gathering.” 

“I hope so, too,” Feathertail responded, blinking 
affectionately at the apprentice. 

Graystripe watched as Cloudtail sent Rainpaw ahead of 
himacross the stepping-stones. The river was fairly low, and 
the young cat had no trouble leaping from one flat-topped 


stone to the next. And this must be the first time hes crossed 
them, Graystripe thought, admiring the young gray tom’s 
fearlessness. 

When both his Clanmates were safely on the opposite 
bank, Graystripe turned back to Feathertail and Stormfur. 
That was good of Cloudtail, he thought. Giving me a few 
moments with my kits. 

“T just want to tell you how enormously proud of you I 
am,” he meowed. “You’ve grown into such capable 
warriors.” 

“Thank you,” Stormfur purred. “That means a lot to us.” 
Feathertail murmured agreement. 

Graystripe felt a lump in his throat as he forced out the 
next words. “I only wish your mother, Silverstream, could be 
here to see you. She would have loved you so much.” 

“Pm sure she’s watching us from StarClan,” Feathertail 
comforted him, brushing her muzzle against her father’s. 

For a moment the three cats stood close together, 
Graystripe drawing in their mingled scents and thinking that 
no father had ever had such splendid kits. It was hard not to 
wish that they would join him in ThunderClan, so that he 
could enjoy their company every single day. But thats not 
what they want, and they re old enough to make their own 
decisions. At last, regretfully, he had to draw back. 

“I must go,” he mewed. “May StarClan light your path.” 

“And yours,” Stormfur responded. 


“Always,” Feathertail added. 

As he leaped across the stepping-stones, Graystripe’s 
paws and legs felt heavy; sadness weighed him down. The 
thought of being separated from his kits for the rest of his 
life was almost too much to bear. Maybe someday ..., he 
thought, as his paws automatically plotted the way back to 
the ThunderClan camp. 

Maybe someday Feathertail, Stormfur, and I will all be 
together again. 


CHAPTER 13 


Se 


— Now — 


It felt strange to arrive at Highstones without the acrid taste 
of traveling herbs on his tongue. Graystripe was overcome 
with a sudden memory— and a longing for Yellowfang and 
Cinderpelt, the medicine cats of his youth—as he clambered 
up the final slope to the peak of Highstones. He was 
wheezing slightly, struggling to catch his breath. I’m a bit 
older than Iwas the last time I made this climb. But at least 
I havent seen any more Twolegs, he thought thankfully. 
After pausing to breathe, he clawed his way to the highest 
point to look out across what used to be the Clan territories. 

I know it wont be the same, he told himself, trying not to 
let himself hope too much. We had to leave because the 
Twolegs were taking over, so it wont look like Iremember. 

However, when he could finally gaze out over the scene 
and take it in, he felt as stunned as if the Moonstone he was 
seeking had fallen on top of him. He could see the river, the 
gorge and the waterfall, and, separated from him by the 
Thunderpath, tiny at this distance, the rooftops of Barley’s 
farm. 

Barley, he mused, his pelt warming at the memory of the 
kind former BloodClan cat who'd settled at the farm. Га love 


to see him again... but Га better find the Moonstone first. 
He remembered with a tiny pain in his chest that Ravenpaw, 
a former ThunderClan apprentice and Barley’s companion at 
the farm, had died. Barley must miss him terribly. 

Beyond the farm, there were so many Twoleg nests that 
he couldn’t even tell where ThunderClan’s territory used to 
be. Thunderpaths snaked among them, and monsters were 
running along them, looking like glittering beetles from this 
far away. The thick, welcoming woodland was gone, along 
with most of the moorland slopes where WindClan had lived. 
A chill ran through Graystripe at the thought of how quickly 
any trace of the Clans had been wiped out. 

And if we cant reach StarClan anymore, how long will 
it be before no cat remembers our time here? Even the 
memory of the Clans will be lost, washed away like twigs in 
a newleaf flood. 

At least, Graystripe reflected, he should be close to 
Mothermouth and the Moonstone. He reminded himself that 
he hadn’t come all this way just for a reunion with his old 
territory. He needed to visit the Moonstone and discover 
whether it would help him find a way to contact StarClan. 

ГІ do that and then hurry home, he told himself firmly. 
Clearly, theres nothing else I need to see here. And if his 
mission turned out to be successful, he would want to get 
back to the lake as quickly as he could. 

Although he couldn’t see Mothermouth from where he 


stood at the top of the rocks, Graystripe knew that the 
opening must be somewhere on the hillside below him. 
Cautiously he began to make his way down. His paws 
slipped on the steep slope, and sometimes the surface was 
made up of tiny pebbles that gave way when he stepped on 
them, carrying him down so fast that he had to dig in his 
claws hard to keep himself from falling off a cliff. His pads 
were soon sore, and he kept a lookout for dock leaves, but 
not much grew among these bleak rocks. 

All the while, the scarlet light was fading and boulders 
cast deep shadows over his path. Unable to see his way 
ahead clearly, Graystripe had to slow down until he was 
creeping forward, testing each paw hold before he dared put 
his weight on it. 

He had traveled to Mothermouth before, but only from 
his own territory in the forest. And he’d only come to escort 
the medicine cats—he’d never gone inside, or seen the 
Moonstone for himself. Now, approaching from the opposite 
direction, he wasn’t sure whether he was on the right track. 
Even worse, as the last of the daylight died, he heard an 
echoing cry above him and looked up to see an owl, its 
wings spread wide as it circled over him. 

“Fox dung!” he muttered. 

Graystripe wasn’t sure whether an owl could be 
dangerous to a full-grown cat like him, but he didn’t want to 
find out the hard way. When the bird seemed to be following 


him, he began to choose his route so that he could take 
cover beneath overhanging rocks. Soon he had to admit to 
himself that he was hopelessly lost. 

Гуе come too far down, he told himself, peering through 
the darkness. Nothing around him looked familiar; he had 
lost sight of Barley’s farm, and he didn’t recognize anything 
that could tell him where he was. Graystripe couldn’t 
remember the last time he had felt so disoriented, as 
vulnerable as a kit venturing out of camp alone. 

He was still trying to decide which way to go when a 
sudden growling broke out in front of him, and two 
enormous, bright eyes pinned himin their dazzling gaze. 

“A monster!” Graystripe yowled in utter shock. What is a 
monster doing here? 

For a moment, all he could do was flatten himself to the 
ground, terror freezing his limbs. When the monster made no 
movement toward him, but simply crouched there growling, 
he managed to recover himself enough to stagger to his 
paws and dart underneath a nearby bush. 

By the light from the monster’s eyes, Graystripe could 
see that he had blundered into some kind of monster camp. 
Several of them sat there, apparently asleep, and a few 
Twolegs were moving around among them. 

As he watched, another monster woke up; this one 
started forward almost at once and headed for Graystripe, 
where he was still hiding beneath the bush. Terror swept 


over Graystripe at the thought of being crushed under those 
huge black paws. He scrambled through the low-growing 
branches, burst out on the far side, and fled. 

A moment later, he felt the ground beneath his paws 
change to the hard surface of a Thunderpath, but in his 
panic his only thought was to escape from the monster that 
was pursuing him. He hurled himself forward, almost 
colliding with a dark cliff that reared up in front of him 
Clawing his way up, Graystripe realized that he was climbing 
a Twoleg fence, and he half jumped, half fell into the garden 
beyond. 

Light and shadow from the monster swept over 
Graystripe as he hurtled across a stretch of grass and 
undemeath a bush with large, aromatic flowers that made 
him sneeze. He crouched there while the lights and the 
growling died away, until all was dark and silent. 

That was close! he thought, panting. 

While he lay there, shivering and trying to catch his 
breath, Graystripe looked up through the branches and 
spotted the owl, still circling. At least it couldn’t get at him 
while he sheltered under the bush. 

“Go and find yourself a nice mouse,” he muttered, “and 
stop bothering me!” 

Forcing himself to relax, Graystripe decided to stay put 
until he could be sure it was safe to move on. An uneasy 
drowsiness had just begun to set in when he heard a voice 


close by, curious and friendly all at once. “Hello! I haven’t 
seen you before.” 

Graystripe opened his eyes to see a plump tabby-and- 
white kittypet peering at him underneath the branches. 
Embarrassed at being caught hiding like a scared apprentice, 
he dragged himself out into the open and gave the 
newcomer a polite nod. 

“Hi,” he mewed. “It’s okay. I haven’t come to take your 
territory.” 

The kittypet—a she-cat— gave him a puzzled look, as if 
she had no idea what he was meowing about. “Are you 
lost?” she asked him. “Maybe I can help.” 

Graystripe doubted that this kittypet knew much about 
anything beyond her own garden, but he was growing so 
desperate that he felt it had to be worth a try. “I’m just 
passing through,” he explained. “Pm looking for 
Mothermouth.” 

His tiny hope vanished as the kittypet stared at him. 
“Mothermouth?” she murmured, as if the word were a 
strange piece of prey on her tongue. “Is that a different kind 
of housefolk den?” 

“It's the entrance to a huge cave,” he told her. “The 
Moonstone is at the very bottom.” 

The tabby-and-white kittypet blinked in bewilderment. “I 
don’t know what that is,” she mewed. “I’ve lived here with 
my housefolk for many seasons, but I’ve never heard of this 


“moonstone.” 

“Never mind,” Graystripe sighed. He’d known that 
asking a kittypet wouldn’t get him anywhere. “Thanks for 
listening, anyway.” 

“That’s okay,” the she-cat told him. “Well, Га better be 
going. My housefolk usually feed me around this time.” She 
padded off across the garden and disappeared through a 
small gap at the bottomof the Twoleg door. 

The kittypet’s mention of food reminded Graystripe of 
how hungry he was. He had a sudden impulse to follow her 
and ask if he could share, then stopped himself, feeling 
thoroughly ashamed. You’re a warrior! he scolded himself. 
You dont go into Twoleg dens or eat kittypet food. He 
turned away, reflecting that he still had his pride, but he had 
a yawning emptiness in his belly, too. 

Graystripe realized that he had to keep going or he was 
never going to find his way to the Moonstone. Wearily, he 
climbed back over the Twoleg fence and began padding 
alongside the Thunderpath. By this time, lights had begun 
to appear inside the Twoleg dens, and the Thunderpath 
itself was lit up by tiny orange suns on top of thin stone 
trees. To his relief, the owl had disappeared, but monsters 
still snarled their way past him, and Graystripe slunk along in 
the shadow of the fence to stay away from their glaring 
eyes. 

He managed to work out that he must be somewhere on 


what used to be WindClan territory, but there was nothing to 
tell him where to go next. What had been open moorland 
was now entirely filled with Twoleg dens, Thunderpaths, 
and sleeping monsters. He paused, trying to scent the air, 
but the acrid stench of monsters swamped anything else. 
Gagging on the reek, Graystripe wondered whether he ought 
to turn back and head in a different direction, only to realize 
that if he did that, he would risk becoming entirely lost. 

Whatever happens, I have to keep going. 

Graystripe padded on, aware of gnawing hunger, aching 
limbs, and sore paws. He wanted nothing more than to hunt, 
eat, and rest, but there seemed nowhere in this alien place 
where he could do that. Then, as he passed yet another 
sleeping monster, he heard it open up; whipping around, he 
saw a Twoleg emerge from its belly and head straight for 
him. 

Fear, worse than when he’d spotted the owl, gave 
Graystripe strength. He hurled himself at the nearest fence 
and leaped up it, his paws scarcely touching the wooden 
surface. When he reached the top he glanced back to see 
the Twoleg’s pale face upturned toward him; then he let 
himself drop down into the garden and dived for cover into 
the gap between the fence and a tree. He crouched there in 
silence, shivering, until he heard retreating paw steps and 
realized that the Twoleg must have given up and gone away. 

As he gradually calmed down, an idea crept into 


Graystripe’s mind. He closed his eyes, trying to shut out all 
the distractions of Twoleg scents and sounds, to see if the 
memory in his senses might guide him back to 
Mothermouth. But however hard he concentrated, he felt no 
guidance, no sense of a paw pulling him in the right 
direction. Disappointed, he opened his eyes. 

Even my body has forgotten this place. 

Graystripe slipped out of hiding and wriggled through a 
narrow gap in the Twoleg fence to struggle on again beside 
the Thunderpath. Now it took a massive effort to put one 
paw in front of another, and he had lost all idea of where he 
was. But even if he decided to give up and go home, he 
didn’t know which way to go. 

Eventually he came to an open area at the far side of the 
Thunderpath. The line of Twoleg dens ended beside a 
stretch of grass surrounded by bushes and a few trees. 
Faintly encouraged by the sight of a place that—so far—the 
Twolegs hadn’t touched, Graystripe opened his jaws to 
scent the air for prey. Soon he picked up a trace of mouse, 
and tracked it down to a clump of grass beside the roots ofa 
tree. 

His jaws watering, Graystripe crept up on his prey and 
prepared to pounce. But just as he was gathering his 
haunches under him, a flurry of loud barking burst from the 
nearest of the Twoleg dens. A dog! Graystripe thought 
irritably. Thats all I need! The mouse had vanished at the 


first sound. 

Graystripe flopped down, utterly discouraged and 
miserable. He was too exhausted to start looking for more 
prey. Instead he dragged himself to a sheltered spot among 
the tree roots and curled up to sleep, trying to ignore the 
bawling of his belly. Cold, hungry, and lost, he was still 
confused about how he had wandered so far from the 
Moonstone. 

Nothing is like it used to be, Graystripe thought. Its as 
though the Clans never lived here at all. Drifting into an 
uneasy sleep, he asked himself, Was it a mistake to come 
back? 


Graystripe lay in his nest in the elders’ den; he had 
curled himself around Millie, with her head resting on his 
shoulder. He could feel every one of her ribs, and her gray 
fur, which had once been so sleek and shining, was dull 
and sparse now. Graystripe couldnt hide from the 
knowledge that her paws were already set on the path that 
would lead her to StarClan. 

“But you cant leave me yet,” he whispered. “I cant 
bear to lose you. Wait a little while, and it will be my time 
to come with you.” 

Already, long ago, he had endured the pain of losing a 
mate, when Silverstream had died giving birth to their kits. 
Graystripe didnt think he could go through the same 
anguish twice. And yet, day by day, he could feel Millie 


slipping away from him. Jayfeather had given her juniper 
berries for strength, and sorrel to stimulate her appetite, 
but in spite of every effort the medicine cat made, poor 
Millie continued to grow weaker and weaker. 

Paw steps sounded outside the den, and Graystripes 
daughter Blossomfall ducked under the hazel branches. 
She was carrying a vole, and the rich scent of fresh-kill 
spread throughout the den. 

“This is her favorite,” she murmured, setting it down 
beside Millie. “Do you think she could eat a bit now?” 

“We can try,” Graystripe replied. He sat up, gently 
shaking Millie by the shoulder “Look what Blossomfall 
has brought for you.” 

Millies blue eyes blinked open and she looked up at 
Graystripe, then at Blossomfall, who nudged the vole closer 
with one paw. “Oh, is that for me?” Millie mewed, her nose 
twitching. “Thank you, Blossomfall. Its a beautiful one. But 
somehow ...I dont feel like it right now.” 

“You have to try!” Blossomfalls voice was tight with 
anxiety. 

“Well, maybe a mouthful .. .” Millie stretched out her 
neck and tore a scrap from the juicy fresh-kill, then 
swallowed it with difficulty. “That tastes so good! Maybe 
ГИ finish it later.” She laid her head down and closed her 
eyes again. 

“Oh, Millie, dont leave us!” Blossomfall exclaimed. 


“Surely there must be something Jayfeather can do?” 

Graystripe shook his head, unwilling to admit the truth, 
yet unable to lie to his daughter. “I think its her time. You 
should fetch Bumblestripe.” 

Blossomfall met his gaze, her eyes wide and 
disbelieving; then she whipped around and shot out of the 
den. 

Graystripe rested his head beside his beloved mate, 
drinking in her sweet scent for what he knew would be the 
last time. “I need you here with me,” he meowed. “What 
will I do without you?” 

Though Millies hearing had dulled in the last moons о] 
her life, she seemed to hear him now. Her eyes opened 
again, fixed on Graystripe and full of love for him. “We’ve 
had a marvelous life together,” she murmured. “I’ve never 
regretted leaving my Twolegs, not for a single moment. But 
its over now, my dear I have to leave you. And you have to 
find your way forward without me.” 

“Т dont think I can,” Graystripe choked out. 

“But you must,” Millie responded. “You must go on 
being the same brave, loyal ThunderClan cat you have 
always been. Your Clan needs you.” 

“Not anymore. Now Im just a useless elder” 
Graystripe 5 words were forced out past a huge lump in his 
throat. “I havent been necessary to my Clan for 
moons... whole seasons.” 


“You will never be useless.” Millie $ breath was warm in 
Graystripes ear “You are Graystripe! You're a strong 
warrior, and a determined one; you are the most important 
cat in the world to me. You must never give up.” 

As Millie finished speaking, Blossomfall slipped back 
into the den with her brother, Bumblestripe, just behind her. 
And Graystripes eyes widened in wonder as a third cat 
followed them beneath the hazel boughs. 

“Briarlight!” he breathed out. 

His daughter, who had been so badly injured by a 
falling tree, walked gracefully now on all four paws. Her 
fur and her eyes shone, and starlight glittered at her paws 
and around her ears. 

Millie looked up and let out a purr of pure happiness. 
“All my dear kits ...,” she whispered. She touched her 
nose to Graystripes ear and sank back limply into the nest 
with a sigh. Her eyes closed. 

“No!” Blossomfall protested. She crouched beside her 
mother $ body, pushing her nose into Millie’ cooling fur. 
Bumblestripes legs seemed to give way, and he slid down 
beside her: 

But Briarlight stood still, her head raised, as if she was 
waiting, and before Graystripes astonished gaze Millie 
seemed to rise from her body, transformed into a vision of 
the young, vigorous cat she had once been. She looked 
down at Graystripe, all the love they had shared shining 


through her brilliant blue gaze. 

“Good-bye, my dear,” she mewed. “I shall wait for you 
in StarClan, but you have far to go before you meet me 
there. And remember what I told you—you must never give 
up.” 

Then she turned and followed their starry daughter out 
of the den. Darkness folded down over Graystripe like the 
black wing ofan enormous crow. 


Graystripe shuddered as he came back to 
consciousness. He was still curled up among the tree roots 
beside the Twoleg dens, as cold and hungry as he had been 
since climbing down from Highstones. Grief gripped him in 
powerful claws as he remembered Millie’s death. It had been 
hard for him to lose her, and he still dreamed about it often. 

But as he struggled against the fuzziness of sleep, his 
grief was eased by a sense of wonder. Millie hadn’t died in 
exactly the way he had just dreamed. He had certainly never 
seen Briarlight, or the young, revived spirit of Millie leaving 
with her to join StarClan. His heart swelled with joy as he 
remembered how strong and beautiful both his beloved cats 
had been. 

And Millie had never said the last words of advice that 
she had spoken in his dream, either. “You must never give 
up.” lt was almost as if she could see me here, lost and 
miserable, Graystripe thought. Then another idea came to 
him, striking like a bolt of lightning: Maybe she can. 


Was it too much to hope that Millie had come to his 
dream from StarClan, to deliver a message, that she had 
spoken those words to encourage him when everything 
seemed so hopeless? At least, Graystripe thought, he could 
carry on as if it were true. 

“Don’t worry, Millie,” he mewed aloud. “I won’t let you 
down.” 

As Graystripe sat up, his nose twitched; a wisp of 
familiar scent was floating on the breeze. What is that? he 
wondered, his mind still half caught up in the memory of his 
dream. Then, as he shook off the last shreds of sleep, he 
realized that he could smell the river in the distance. 

Invigorated by hope, Graystripe sprang to his paws and 
shook out his pelt. Glancing around, he realized that he had 
been sleeping under the tallest tree in sight. He raced up the 
trunk and leaped from branch to branch until he could look 
out over the tops of the Twoleg dens. 

He’d spotted the Twolegplace from Highstones, but now 
that he was in the middle of it, its sheer size overwhelmed 
him. Why do the stupid creatures need so many separate 
dens? They cant possibly be comfortable living like that! 

Then, in the distance, past all the red-topped nests, he 
saw what he had been seeking. 

The river! Graystripe gazed at the rush and sparkle of the 
surging current, feeling as if he were drinking in great drafts 
of its cool water. J can see the waterfall ... oh, and the old 


Twoleg bridge is still there! And far away—so far that in the 
early morning haze he couldn’t be quite sure—Graystripe 
thought that he could make out Sunningrocks. 

His heart lurched as he remembered fighting there 
alongside Firestar. He could almost hear the screeches of 
battling cats and see their lithe forms outlined against the 
glittering river. More memories followed the first, gushing 
over Graystripe like a flood: training in the sandy hollow, 
stalking prey in the depths of hazel thickets, padding up to 
Fourtrees for Gatherings under the light of the full moon. 

This is where I became a warrior Where I became the 
cat that Iam now, he thought. 

But Graystripe couldn’t dwell on the joy and pain of the 
past. He looked around the changed landscape, and 
suddenly it struck him: Г'т on ThunderClan territory. At 
least, what used to be ThunderClan territory. 

He felt his heart sink as he looked around at the stinking 
Thunderpaths and repeating rows of Twoleg dwellings. / 5 
all gone. He felt the air go out of him. He’d thought he was 
prepared for the reality that Twolegs had likely changed 
everything about the old hunting lands in the forest. But 
seeing Twoleg dwellings where the ThunderClan that had 
formed him had lived was more distressing than he could 
have imagined. 

Take a breath. He closed his eyes, trying to calm himself. 
You knew it would be gone, Graystripe. The past is the past. 


He opened his eyes. He had to stay focused; he needed 
to reach the Moonstone. Now he knew roughly how to get 
to Mothermouth. But he noticed too that the Twoleg nests 
stopped short of the river, and on the other side, on what 
used to be RiverClan territory, lay the same reed beds, 
thickets, and lush grass that he remembered from the Clan’s 
time there. He’d lived there once, among those reed beds 
and thickets. He’d played with Featherkit and Stormkit, and 
had tried to convince himself he could be a RiverClan cat. 

At least their territory hasnt changed. 

As Graystripe climbed down the tree, he knew that he 
ought to head straight for Mothermouth. But his whole 
body was urging him to pay a visit to RiverClan territory, to 
pretend, just for a short time, that his paws could carry him 
back into the past. 

Theres no harm in checking it out, he decided. Just to 
see ifit really is the same. 

Swiftly, Graystripe threaded his way through the last of 
the Twoleg dens. It was so early in the morning that all the 
monsters seemed to be asleep, and none of the Twolegs 
were stirring. Eventually he emerged onto the stretch of 
open ground along the riverbank, then headed downstream 
toward the Twoleg bridge. 

On the way, he caught the powerful scent of rabbit and 
spotted the creature nibbling at a clump of dandelions at the 
very edge of the river His belly aching with hunger, 


Graystripe crept up on it. At the last moment before he 
pounced, something alerted the rabbit; it sat up, ears 
quivering, and began to bound away, only to be faced by 
the swift-flowing current. Scrabbling to keep its balance, the 
rabbit turned around and charged forward almost into 
Graystripe’s paws; he killed it with a swift blow to the throat. 

“Thank you, StarClan, for this prey,’ he mumbled 
automatically, but then cheered up. His dream about Millie 
had left him feeling a bit more hopeful about StarClan and 
the possibility of making contact with them at the 
Moonstone. Encouraged, he tore into the warm flesh. 

A little while later, Graystripe sat back, swiping his 
tongue around his jaws. Nothing was left of the rabbit 
except for fur and bones. Normally, a whole rabbit would 
have been too much for him, but Graystripe had been 
starving from the night before. Now his belly felt full to 
bursting, and energy was flooding back into his muscles. 

Prey tastes different here from how it does beside the 
lake, he reflected as he rose and padded on. It tastes like 
home. 

Heading once more for the Twoleg bridge, Graystripe 
kept all his senses alert in case any RiverClan cats happened 
to be patrolling. Then he huffed out his breath, half laughing 
at himself. What am I thinking? There are no cats here 
anymore—only Twolegs. 

Graystripe bounded across the bridge, eager to see 


RiverClan’s territory once again. For almost the first time on 
his journey, he felt relaxed, unsuspicious of any danger. For 
once Ican explore without any hostile cats or Twolegs. 

But as he stepped off the bridge, the morning air was 
split by a terrifying yowl. Gaping in shock, Graystripe 
glanced around to see a young she-cat, the size of an 
apprentice, leap out of a nearby bush. Before he could raise 
a paw to defend himself, the cat barreled into his side and 
knocked him off his paws. He landed with a thud, the breath 
driven out of him, and looked up to see his attacker sprawled 
on top of him with a gleam of triumph in her green eyes. 

“Do you surrender?” she asked. 


CHAPTER 14 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe gazed doubtfully up at the full moon riding high 
in the sky as he led his Clan toward Fourtrees. He would 
really have preferred it if Firestar had returned before this 
Gathering, but there had been no sign of the ThunderClan 
leader, and once again Graystripe would have to take his 
place. 

Cinderpelt was padding along at Graystripe's shoulder, 
while behind them followed ThunderClan’s strongest 
warriors: Dustpelt, Cloudtail, Mousefur, Brackenfur, and 
Thornclaw. Brambleclaw was with them, too; though he was 
still inexperienced, Graystripe admired his dedication and 
knew he would be an asset if they should run into trouble. 

But even though his Clanmates were padding along with 
heads and tails held high, determination in their eyes, 
Graystripe could detect tension among them, as if they were 
worried about having to keep up the pretense that Firestar 
was still in the forest, somehow ill or indisposed, for another 
Gathering. 

And I cant blame them. I'm tense myself. 

The night was quiet, with only the faintest breeze stirring 
the branches and the long grass as the cats brushed their 


way through it. The air was warm with the scent of prey, but 
every cat knew this wasn’t the time for hunting. Instead 
Graystripe kept all his senses alert for possible traces of 
BloodClan; though he couldn’t hear or scent anything, he 
could imagine eyes staring out at him from the dark moon 
shadows of the undergrowth. His pelt itched uneasily, and 
he kept wanting to glance over his shoulder, though he 
knew that all he would see was his own Clan, following in 
his paw steps. 

“They’re out there somewhere,’ he muttered to 
Cinderpelt. 

The medicine cat twitched her whiskers. “Maybe,” she 
responded. “But there's nothing we can do about them right 
now.” 

“Га like to tear the pelts off the lot of them!” Graystripe 
growled. 

Cinderpelt rested her tail briefly on his shoulder, a 
calming gesture. “Maybe you scared them off when you 
fought,” she meowed. “No other warriors have seen any 
signs of the rogues since then.” 

Graystripe snorted. “They almost made crow-food ofus. 
No way were they scared!” 

“But you were outnumbered,” Cinderpelt pointed out. 
“They may think that if three cats can fight as fiercely as 
that, what chance would BloodClan have against all of us?” 

“Га like to believe that,” Graystripe sighed. But I cant. 


Тлете trouble coming; I can scent it! 

He leaped across the stream and led the way up the final 
slope toward Fourtrees. The mingled scents of many cats 
flowed down to meet him. When he reached the top of the 
hollow, he saw that RiverClan and ShadowClan were already 
there, and WindClan was just arriving, streaming down the 
opposite slope from the direction of the moor. 

The group of ThunderClan cats began to split up as they 
made their way through the ferns that lined the hollow, 
heading to greet friends in other Clans, while Graystripe 
headed straight for the Great Rock and leaped up to take his 
place beside Leopardstar and Blackstar on the top. He 
sensed murmurs of surprise from some of the warriors 
gathered in front of them. They werent expecting to see me 
here—they were expecting to see Firestar. 

“Firestar’s still sick, is he?” Leopardstar asked, eyeing 
Graystripe froma few tail-lengths away. He couldn’t tell what 
she was thinking from her even gaze. 

Graystripe remembered that on his visit to RiverClan he 
had told their leader that Firestar had been suffering from 
greencough. A foolish lie, he mused, but now I’m committed 
to it. “Yes,” Graystripe replied. Keep it simple and they'll 
ask fewer questions, he thought. “He’s still sick, but 
improving.” 

Leopardstar kept her eyes on him, and Graystripe sensed 
that she wanted to ask another question, but they were all 


distracted when Tallstar sprang up to join them a few 
heartbeats later. 

Graystripe heard Leopardstar greet him, and turned 
away. 

Everything about playing “leader” at this Gathering felt 
strange and wrong. His paws felt unsteady on the hard 
surface of the rock, and though this was his second 
Gathering as acting leader, he still wasn’t used to seeing 
Fourtrees from this angle. For a moment he was distracted 
by the view between the massive oaks, opening up into the 
distance, until he spotted Feathertail and Stormfur below 
him, sitting a little apart from the other RiverClan cats. 

A pang of sadness pierced Graystripe’s heart to see his 
kits so close to him and yet so far away. At least they те 
happy in RiverClan ... I suppose. 

While Graystripe was still watching Stormfur and 
Feathertail, Blackstar rose to his paws and let out a yowl, 
signaling for the Gathering to begin. The chatter in the 
hollow died away into silence, and every cat turned to gaze 
up at the leaders. Graystripe suppressed a shiver at the sight 
ofthe mass of eyes, glimmering with reflected moonlight. 

“ShadowClan is growing stronger every day,” Blackstar 
began his report. “Our scars from the time Tigerstar brought 
BloodClan to the forest went very deep. But at last I can say 
that we have rebuilt our Clan.” 

Yowls of support came from the cats all across the 


hollow: from Blackstar’s own Clan, but from the others too. 
We're all stronger when every Clan is strong, Graystripe 
thought. In many ways, he admired Blackstar, whose paws 
had been set on a very difficult path when he became Clan 
leader, after the damage caused by the previous leader, 
Tigerstar. But he still wasn’t convinced that he could trust 
ShadowClan. 

Will they become less secretive? Can the rest of us 
depend on them? Graystripe asked himself. Or will they still 
be troublemakers, like before? 

Blackstar stepped back, and Tallstar rose to speak. “All 
is well in WindClan,” he reported. “We have plenty of prey, 
and our warriors are stronger than ever.” He sat down again. 

Leopardstar was next to rise and step forward to address 
the cats in the hollow, the moonlight gleaming on her 
spotted pelt. “Prey is running well in RiverClan too,” she 
announced. 

“Or swimming,” Blackstar muttered with a flick of his 
ears. 

Graystripe stifled a mrrow of laughter; clearly, Blackstar 
didn’t understand RiverClan’s preference for fish any more 
than Graystripe himself. 

“A fox passed through our territory two days ago,” 
Leopardstar continued, “and Mistyfoot led a patrol to chase 
it off. For the time being we have stepped up our border 
patrols—on both sides of the river,” she finished, with a 


glance at Graystripe. 

Does that mean shes going to have another try at 
taking Sunningrocks? Graystripe wondered. J wouldnt put 
it past her. He resolved that ThunderClan too would step up 
their patrols. I definitely cant lose any territory while 
Firestar is gone! 

His belly cramped as he realized that Leopardstar was 
stepping back, indicating with a swish of her tail that it was 
his turn to speak. Swallowing, he took a deep breath and 
rose to his paws. 

“Life is good in ThunderClan,” he began, trying to make 
his voice ring out across the hollow. “Prey is running well in 
our territory. We had a brief bout of greencough, but our 
medicine cat Cinderpelt was able to cure all the cats who 
suffered from it, and no cat has died.” 

He was aware of some murmuring from the cats in the 
hollow below, and spotted a few of them exchanging 
skeptical looks. 

“And Firestar’s health is improving?” Leopardstar put in 
smoothly. “Even though he’s not here tonight?” 

“Yes,” he responded. “He's ... much better.” 

“Then where is he, exactly?” Blackstar asked. “Russetfur 
told me that he was out of camp when she visited you.” 

Graystripe’s head spun briefly as he tried to remember 
which lies he had told to which cats. He wished once again 
that he had stuck to his first intention of telling every cat 


that Firestar had gone on a mission. It would certainly have 
been simpler. 

But its too late now, he thought. And who knows what 
the other leaders might have done, if they knew that 
Firestar wasn t even here? 

“That’s right,” he told Blackstar. “Firestar went out to 
hunt, despite Cinderpelt’s warning him that it was not a 
good idea. And it appears he overtaxed his strength. 
Cinderpelt thinks it will now be several more days before he 
is fully recovered.” He looked out into the crowd, hoping to 
find Cinderpelt, so that she could somehow confirm this. 
Help me! But all the pelts seemed to blend together in the 
darkness. 

The other three leaders looked unimpressed by 
Graystripe’s explanation; it was all too clear that they knew 
he was hiding something. 

“So is he seriously ill?” Tallstar asked. “He must be, if he 
sent you to this Gathering.” 

“He needs rest, that’s all,’ Graystripe retorted. “Don’t 
worry; he’ll answer all your questions when he’s back on his 
paws.” 

“So you're sure he will be back . . . on his paws?” 
Blackstar probed. 

Graystripe fought to push down panic. Will he be back? 
Does Blackstar know that Firestar isnt even in the forest 
right now? Rapidly pulling himself together, he replied, “Of 


course. Why wouldn’t he?” 

“Firestar was once a kittypet,” Blackstar reminded the 
others with a flick of his tail. “Who knows where he truly is, 
or where his loyalties lie?” 

I’m not getting into this with you, Graystripe thought, 
glaring at the ShadowClan leader from narrowed eyes. 
“Firestar’s loyalty is to ThunderClan,” he growled. “I have 
no doubt of that. And he is a fine, dedicated leader.” / need 
a change of subject! “Have I mentioned?” he added 
suddenly, lightening his tone. “We have more good news in 
ThunderClan. Our warrior Brightheart has given birth to a 
kit, and named her Whitekit. Cloudtail is her father.” 

“Brightheart! Whitekit!” The cats in the clearing 
responded joyfully to Graystripe’s news. 

Glancing down, Graystripe saw Cloudtail gazing proudly 
around him, as if he were ready to take all the credit for 
having brought new life into the Clan. And he had reason to 
be proud, Graystripe reflected; it was mostly due to Cloudtail 
that Brightheart had overcome her terrible injuries and 
become once more a full member of her Clan. I’m more than 
happy to share the attention with any cat right now! 

“Congratulations to the new family,” Tallstar interrupted, 
with an irritated twitch of his ears toward Blackstar. “But we 
have one more important matter to discuss. Graystripe, what 
more can you tell us about BloodClan?” 

Graystripe had hoped that he wouldn’t have to discuss 


BloodClan, but now he felt almost relieved. 111 talk about 
anything, if it distracts the other Clans from wondering 
where Firestar is! 

“Гуе no more news,” he reported. “Except to tell 
ShadowClan, if they don’t know already, that I and some of 
my warriors had a skirmish with some BloodClan cats near 
the Twolegplace. Since then, we have not seen nor smelled 
any of them. We searched the whole territory.” 

“We haven’t seen them, either,” Tallstar meowed. 
“Perhaps you scared them off, Graystripe.” 

“Perhaps,” Graystripe agreed, though, as he had said to 
Cinderpelt earlier, he didn’t believe it. “Leopardstar, have 
you seen anything?” he asked. “Blackstar?” 

Both Clan leaders shook their heads. 

“We should all agree to pass on the news immediately if 
we spot signs of BloodClan on our territories,” Tallstar 
suggested. “It’s too important to wait until the next 
Gathering.” 

No cat objected, and with that, Blackstar drew the 
Gathering to an end. As he leaped off the Great Rock, 
Graystripe felt as uneasy and apprehensive as he had on the 
day when Firestar had first told him he had to leave the Clan. 

He was afraid he had made ThunderClan seem 
vulnerable by discussing the trouble with BloodClan, when 
the marauding rogues hadn’t targeted any of the other 
Clans. He wondered what the others would do if BloodClan 


succeeded in taking ThunderClan’s territory. Graystripe 
worried that they might see it as a good thing, and begin 
fighting to take the rest of his Clan’s territory for themselves. 

I wonder if I can ever really trust the other Clans. Oh, 
Firestar, you always seemed so much better at getting along 
with the others! 

Graystripe was looking around for the rest of his Clan 
when Stormfur and Feathertail bounded up to him. 

“Don’t go yet,” Feathertail mewed, touching noses with 
him. “We haven’t had time to say hello to you.” 

“Yes, you were stuck on top of the Great Rock,” Stormfur 
added. “How long will it be before Firestar is back and we’re 
able to talk to you again?” 

Graystripe wondered why Stormfur should ask him that. 
Does my own son mistrust me now? I suppose I am lying to 
him, like I’m lying to every cat—though I wouldnt have to 
lie to himifhe would just join me in ThunderClan! 

“You’d have to ask our medicine cat that,” he 
responded. “But I’m sure he’ll be back by the next 
Gathering.” 

Stormfur nodded, seeming satisfied by that answer. “I’m 
going to catch up with some of your Clanmates,” he 
announced, and slipped off into the crowd. 

Graystripe was left with Feathertail, regretful that their 
meeting would have to be so short. He thought that he 
could detect sadness in her beautiful blue eyes, and 


remembered how, during the Gathering, she and her brother 
had been sitting slightly apart from the rest of their Clan. 

“Are you happy in RiverClan?” he asked. 

“Yes—yes, of course,” Feathertail answered, her ears 
flicking up in surprise. “Why do you ask?” 

Graystripe wasn’t completely convinced by her answer. 
“No reason,” he meowed. “Just that you and Stormfur are 
my kits, and you have the right to become warriors in 
ThunderClan if you want to do that.” He hesitated, and then 
softened his voice as he added, “It would make me very 
happy to have you in ThunderClan.” 

Feathertail hesitated, and for one wild moment, 
Graystripe thought she would take him up on his offer. “I 
appreciate that,” she responded at last. “But while Stormfur 
is part of RiverClan, I feel I should try to find my place there, 
too.” 

“I understand.” Graystripe touched his nose to her ear, 
drinking in her scent. “Just remember that the offer is open. 
You'll always be welcome in my Clan.” 

Feathertail ducked her head awkwardly, then vanished 
into the crowd of cats, following Stormfur. Graystripe turned 
away, a pit of regret in his belly, and headed up the fern- 
covered slope and out of the hollow. 

But as he padded through the forest, toward the 
ThunderClan camp, a new feeling came over him. He sensed 
once more a nervous prickling in his pelt, and wondered 


about hostile eyes staring at him from the darkness. 
Are you out there, BloodClan? Are you watching me? 


CHAPTER 15 


Se 


— Now — 


“Great StarClan, what are you meowing about?” Graystripe 
demanded testily. He swiped at the young she-cat with one 
paw, his claws sheathed, easily shoving her off him. Rising 
to his paws, he shook debris offhis pelt and looked around. 

Graystripe stood in the center of a circle of young cats: 
six, he realized, counting them. For one wild moment, he 
wondered if somehow a fragment of RiverClan could have 
survived here. No, thats impossible, he thought. Besides, 
these cats didn’t smell like RiverClan; they smelled like 
kittypets. 

The she-cat who had attacked him—a tortoiseshell with 
white chest and paws—stepped forward until she stood 
nose to nose with Graystripe. He had to stifle a mrrow of 
laughter; she was trying so hard to look threatening. 

“You’re trespassing on our territory,’ she accused him. 
“And as we’re fierce warrior cats, we don’t take too kindly to 
that.” 

Graystripe stared at her “Wait . . . warrior cats?” 
Glancing around at this collection of fluffy furballs, it was 
obvious that they were pampered kittypets and not warriors 
at all. Even though they were all snarling and showing him 


their claws. 

“Yes, we're WarriorClan,” the tortoiseshell kittypet 
continued. “Clan cats have lived on this territory for 
seasons. You must either submit to our authority—or face 
our wrath!” 

“Or join us,” a very fluffy orange kittypet added. “That’s 
an option, too, if you’re tough enough.” 

Тлеу уе got a whole swarm of bees in their brain, 
Graystripe thought, bemused. “So, you're .. . ‘warriors,”” he 
murmured. “What do you do?” 

“We fight!” a black-and-white tom yowled. 

“We hang out here on this territory,” the orange kittypet 
explained. “Because it’s ours, and we work together to hunt 
and to fight our enemies. During the day, anyway,” he 
admitted after a pause. “At night we have to go home to our 
housefolk.” 

“Pm Monkeystar,” the tortoiseshell announced. “I’m 
Clan leader, so I mostly decide what we do each day.” 

Monkeystar? What sort of a name is that? “What’s a 
monkey?” Graystripe asked. 

Monkeystar looked faintly embarrassed. “I don’t know,” 
she confessed. “But it’s the name that my housefolk gave 
me, so it must be something fierce, like me.” 

“And what are the rest of you called?” 

“Tm Bugeater,” a tabby she-cat told him. 

“And I’m Fireface.” That was a ginger tom with 


unusually red fur around his face and ears. 

“Pm Bigteeth,” the black-and-white tom mewed. There 
was no need, Graystripe thought with amusement, to ask 
where he got his name. 

“And I’m Clawwhistle,” the fluffy orange tom declared. 
Graystripe gave hima puzzled look, and the kittypet went on 
to explain, “You know, like the whistle a claw makes when it 
flies through the air as you’re about to tear into some cat.” 
He demonstrated by swiping one paw a mouse-length from 
Graystripe’s nose. 

“Er... yeah, I see,” Graystripe responded, managing not 
to duck backward. “Good name.” 

“And l'm Chester,” the sixth cat, a gray tom, announced. 

Chester? Graystripe was puzzled. Monkeystar had at 
least made her kittypet name into a Clan leader’s name by 
adding “star” to the end of it, and the others had all made an 
effort to give themselves fierce warrior names. So whats 
with ... Chester? 

The gray tom seemed to understand what was confusing 
Graystripe. “It seemed too much to keep track of, to have 
one name at home and a different one in WarriorClan,” he 
meowed helpfully. “So I decided to stick with the name my 
housefolk gave me. But I’m still a dedicated warrior,” he 
finished, puffing out his chest proudly. 

I suppose that makes as much sense as the rest of it, 
Graystripe mused. Actually, arent there some strange names 


in SkyClan? I suppose that happens sometimes with their 


cats who used to be “daylight warriors.”’ “So you're all 
kittypets?” he asked. 
“Well, yes .. .” Monkeystar sounded reluctant to admit 


it. “We’re kittypets when we’re with our housefolk, but 
when we get out of our gardens—and that’s most of the day 
—we’re fierce warriors. Except that Fireface’s housefolk feed 
him at midday, so he goes home for that.” 

Graystripe wasn’t sure how to react. He didn’t know if 
these fierce warriors would let him go without a fight, and 
though he was sure he could beat the lot of them with one 
paw—even at his age—he didn’t want to hurt them. 

“How did you learn about the warrior way of life?” he 
asked finally, playing for time. 

“There’s an old kittypet who lives on the other side of 
the river, called Smudge,” Monkeystar explained. “He told us 
that the whole forest used to be filled with warriors. They 
lived in the open, and hunted their own prey, and sometimes 
they would even fight one another. But they were brave and 
loyal, and they defended the forest.” 

“Whatever happened to them?” Graystripe asked, 
curious to know what stories he and his Clanmates had left 
behind them. 

“Its sad, really,” Bugeater replied. “Smudge doesn’t 
know. One day the forest was filled with warriors, and the 
next it was like they just all left at once.” 


“Well, you might like to know,” Graystripe began, 
wondering whether he would regret this later, “that Гут one 
of those warriors. The Clans live far away now, many days’ 
journey, but Гуе come back to check on the old territory.” 

Surprised squeals came from the WarriorClan cats, who 
gazed at Graystripe with round eyes and jaws gaping. 

“You? Really?” Fireface gasped. 

“Really,” Graystripe told him. 

“You must be way old!” Chester exclaimed. 

You re right there, Graystripe thought ruefully. “Not as 
old as all that,” he retorted. 

Monkeystar was twitching her whiskers frantically, her 
eyes stretched wide with curiosity. “But why did you 
leave?” 

Graystripe waved his tail at the rows and rows of Twoleg 
dens across the river. “The Twolegs—housefolk—took our 
territory.” 

“That’s dreadful!” Bigteeth breathed out. “Couldn’t you 
fight them? If you were as fierce as the stories say?” 

Graystripe shook his head. “You can’t fight Twolegs.” 

“Smudge told us stories about an orange cat called 
Fires tar,” Bugeater meowed. “You’re not orange.” 

“Well spotted,” Graystripe murmured, amused. “True, I’m 
not Firestar. My name is Graystripe, and when we lived here 
in the forest, I was Firestar’s deputy. He and I were best 
friends.” 


The young cats’ eyes stretched even wider; clearly, they 
were massively impressed at meeting a friend of the great 
Firestar. Its like I’m one of the heroic warriors out of a 
nursery tale, Graystripe thought. 

“Is Firestar with you?” Clawwhistle asked, glancing 
around as if he expected to see this legendary cat stepping 
out of the bushes. 

“No,” Graystripe answered with a sudden pang of 
sadness. “Firestar is dead. He died bravely, saving his Clan.” 

“You must miss him,” Chester mewed, blinking 
sympathetically. 

“I do.” Graystripe felt a lump in his throat as he thought 
of how much he missed his friend, but he didn’t want to 
dampen the young cats’ enthusiasm by dwelling on past 
grief. He lifted his head and spoke bravely. “But we will 
never forget him, and many of his kin are now noble warriors 
of ThunderClan.” 

“So did you become Clan leader, when Firestar died?” 
Bugeater asked. 

Graystripe shook his head. “No, I—” 

“Enough questions!” Monkeystar interrupted, her 
tortoiseshell fur fluffing out. “If you're a true warrior, you'll 
prove it by fighting me.” 

Graystripe blinked at her. He was reluctant to fight any of 
these young kittypets, but he had to admit that at least 
Monkeystar had courage. “Okay,” he meowed. “You—” 





He broke off as Monkeystar hurled herself at him, 
forepaws flailing. Graystripe dodged aside and aimed a blow 
at her flank, careful to keep his claws sheathed. Monkeystar 
staggered, but managed to keep her balance, and leaped at 
him from behind, scrambling up onto his shoulders and 
lashing at his ears. Graystripe let her get one or two good 
blows in before letting himself go limp and falling to the 
ground, then using the unexpected shift in momentum to roll 
them over. He pinned her down with his forepaws on her 
shoulders. For a few heartbeats, Monkeystar struggled to 
free herself, then relaxed with a sigh of resignation. 

“Well?” Graystripe’s voice was a soft growl. “Am I a true 
warrior?” 

Monkeystar snarled, but then reluctantly agreed, “I 
guess you are.” 

Graystripe got up and stepped back to allow the young 
tortoiseshell to rise to her paws. Meanwhile the other cats of 
WarriorClan began crowding around him, letting out 
admiring meows. 

“That was brilliant!” 

“Can you teach us to do that?” 

“Please!” 

Graystripe had to admit that part of him was enjoying the 
young cats” hero worship, even though he knew he should 
be concentrating on his mission. He detached himself and 
dipped his head respectfully to Monkeystar. He didn’t want 


her to feel ashamed at having been bested by another cat in 
front of her Clanmates. “You fought well, for a young cat,” 
he told her. “You have courage and determination.” 

Monkeystar’s ears flicked up with pleasure at his praise, 
and she gave her shoulder a couple of embarrassed licks. “I 
wish you would train us,” she mewed. 

“Pm sorry,” Graystripe responded. “I don’t have a lot of 
time to hang out. ’mon my way somewhere, to carry out an 
important warrior task.” 

“Maybe we can help you!” Monkeystar suggested with 
an enthusiastic little jump. 

“Yeah,” Clawwhistle added. “Just tell us what to do.” 

Graystripe shook his head. “No, it’s something I have to 
do alone.” He meant to turn away and head back across the 
river, but he found he couldn’t bear the sight of their 
disappointed faces. And he couldn’t deny that he was 
enjoying their admiration. “Okay,” he meowed. “ГЇЇ stay fora 
little while—just for this moming—and show you some 
hunting moves.” 

The WarriorClan cats jumped up and down, letting out 
eager yowls. So loud that they'll scare off all the prey 
between here and Highstones, Graystripe thought ruefully. 
“Okay, settle down and watch me,” he began. “We call this 
the hunter’s crouch... .” 


“Suppose there was a mouse under that bush,” 
Graystripe meowed, waving his tail at a low-growing holly a 


few fox-lengths ahead. “What would you do first?” 

Fireface waved his tail. “Creep up on it!” 

Graystripe shook his head. “No, not first. Clawwhistle, 
do you know?” 

“Check the wind?” the orange kittypet guessed. 

“That’s right. Very good!” Clawwhistle’s orange pelt 
seemed to glow even brighter in his pride at being praised 
by Graystripe. “Okay, if we check the wind, what do we hope 
we’ ll find?” 

Monkeystar was bouncing up and down in her 
eagemess to answer. “It’s blowing toward us, so the mouse 
can’t smell us, so we can catch it!” 

“Right!” Graystripe stifled a purr of amusement. “But it’s 
not quite as easy as that. What you have to remember with a 
mouse is that it’s very sensitive to vibrations in the ground. 
It will feel you coming long before it sees you or scents you. 
So what does that mean? Yes, Bugeater?” 

“We have to creep up really carefully.” 

“You’re right, we do. So let’s see you all practice that. 
Show me your hunter’s crouch, and then creep toward the 
mouse that we’re pretending is under the holly bush over 
there. And don’t forget—tails down!” 

Graystripe stood back as the WarriorClan cats began 
their training exercise. He was surprised at how much he was 
enjoying himself. The kittypets were working hard; their 
hunting techniques were coming along nicely. It reminded 


Graystripe of training apprentices, back when he was still a 
warrior. He’d loved training Brackenfur—and, briefly, 
Stormfur—teaching all the skills he’d learned, and making 
the Clan stronger. It had been so many moons since then. 
Elders dont take apprentices, he told himself with a sigh. 

The kittypets were still stalking carefully up to the holly 
bush, their shadows stretching out beside them on the 
grass. Their shadows ... ! Graystripe looked up at the sun, 
stunned to see how close it was to setting. The whole day 
had slipped away in training the young cats. However did 1 
let that happen? 

“That's very good,” he called out to the kittypets. “I’m 
sorry, but we have to stop now. I really must be going; I 
have an important task to complete for my Clan.” But even 
while he was speaking, he felt as if a claw had lodged itself 
in his heart. It felt strange to act as though ThunderClan had 
sent him on some important mission, when in truth he’d left 
them without any assurance that he was going to retum. 
He’d been feeling that it was likely that he would return, 
depending on what happened at the Moonstone, but the 
mention of his Clan brought it all back: the nightmare of 
Bramblestar’s death, the confusion about StarClan’s long 
silence, and the tension in ThunderClan over Squirrelflight’s 
leadership. Everything felt so much more complicated than it 
had been in the forest, with Firestar leading. Will I ever feel 
as connected to ThunderClan as I did when I lived here? 


“Oh, no! You can’t go yet!” Chester exclaimed. “We’ve 
still got loads more to learn.” 

All six cats abandoned their imaginary mouse and 
crowded around Graystripe, adding their protests to the gray 
tom’s. 

“Where are you going?” Fireface asked. 

“And why is it so important that you can’t stay another 
day or two with us?” Bigteeth added. 

Graystripe paused. He knew these cats wouldn’t 
understand the details, but he did feel that they deserved to 
know a bit more about why he was leaving them so abruptly. 
“Т have to go to the Moonstone,” he admitted. 

“The Moonstone!” Monkeystar yowled, her green eyes 
flaring with excitement. “That’s where the warrior cats talk to 
StarClan!” 

Graystripe’s pelt prickled with surprise that the kittypets 
had even heard ofthe Moonstone. / suppose Firestar must 
have told Smudge about it, but its hardly the sort of thing a 
kittypet would understand. The kittypet I spoke to last 
night certainly didnt! “What do you know about the 
Moonstone?” he asked. 

“It’s a big stone underground,” Clawwhistle replied. 
“And the cats of StarClan make it light up!” 

“They appear in the stone and tell the Clan cats what to 
do,” Monkeystar added. 

Ме... sort of, Graystripe thought, admitting to himself 


that he wasn’t entirely sure how medicine cats and Clan 
leaders communicated with StarClan at the Moonstone. “Do 
you know where it is?” he asked. 

All six kittypets shook their heads. “Do you?” 
Monkeystar asked in her turn. 

“I think I do,” Graystripe replied. “Everything looks so 
different with all these Twoleg dens, but I’ve a pretty good 
idea of the way.” 

“We could come with you.” Monkeystar’s green eyes 
sparkled. “We could help; we’re good at traveling among 
housefolk dens.” 

Every drop of blood inside Graystripe turned to ice at the 
thought of leading six kittypets up Highstones to 
Mothermouth. “Absolutely not,” he responded, making his 
tone as stern as he could. “Besides,” he continued, “it must 
be getting close to the time when you’re fed. Surely your 
Twolegs will be worried?” 

The kittypets exchanged disappointed glances. “Okay,” 
Monkeystar mewed at last. “I guess I am getting hungry. 
Thanks for all the training, anyway.” 

“Yeah, it was great!” Clawwhistle agreed. “I never 
thought we’d ever meet a real warrior cat.” 

Bugeater flexed her claws in and out. “It’s been so 
exciting!” 

“Will you be come back this way?” Bigteeth asked. 

“Pm not sure,” Graystripe replied. “That depends on 


what happens when I reach the Moonstone. But if I do pass 
this way again, I’ll surely look out for you.” 

“And we’ll look out for you,” Monkeystar responded, 
dipping her head respectfully. “And meanwhile, may 
StarClan ... watch your paws?” 

“Nearly right.” Graystripe made a massive effort to hide 
his amusement. “Warriors say, ‘May StarClan light your 
path.’ And may they light yours also, cats of WarriorClan.” 

The six kittypets chorused a farewell, then turned and 
vanished into the bushes, heading for the Twoleg bridge 
and their Twoleg nests on the far side of the river. 

Graystripe stood watching them go, feeling cheered by 
having spent time with them. Then, when he thought he had 
allowed them long enough to disperse to their dens, he 
padded across the bridge in what he hoped was the 
direction of Mothermouth. 

The sun was going down in a blaze of scarlet light, 
though clouds were massing over the hills ahead, and 
Graystripe guessed that the night might bring a storm. Thats 
all I need—to be stuck out on Highstones in the pouring 
rain! He began to regret even more the day he had spent 
training the kittypets. 

The path Graystripe had chosen skirted the Twolegplace, 
and he hoped he might be able to find his way around 
without actually venturing back into the maze of dens and 
Thunderpaths. But still, he didn’t feel that he was on familiar 


territory. There was evidence of Twolegs everywhere: debris 
lying half hidden in the grass, the acrid scent of monsters, 
damaged undergrowth where Twolegs had shoved their 
clumsy way through. 

Its not the way it was when I traveled this way with 
Firestar, Graystripe thought. Everything looked different 
then... bigger somehow... 

Then Graystripe halted at the edge of a wide, circular 
path. It was made of some hard, grayish stuff, and it 
surrounded the top of a hollow lined with smooth grass. A 
mass of broken stone lay at the bottom. Graystripe’s belly 
lurched as he recognized where he was. 

It looked very different now, with the oak trees cut down 
and the Great Rock crushed into rubble. Graystripe had been 
told what had happened, but it knocked all the breath out of 
him to see it in real life. 

This was Fourtrees. 


CHAPTER 16 


Se 


— Then — 


The rabbit was streaking through the trees, heading for the 
ShadowClan border. In a few more heartbeats it would cross, 
and escape the ThunderClan fresh-kill pile. Graystripe put on 
an extra burst of speed and leaped on top of it with less than 
a fox-length to spare. Its squeal of terror was cut offas he bit 
down on its throat. 

“Thank you, StarClan, for this prey,” Graystripe panted, 
flopping down for a few moments to catch his breath. It was 
a good, plump rabbit and would fill the bellies of several 
cats. Maybe the elders would like it.... 

Once he had recovered from the chase, Graystripe rose 
to his paws, ready to return to camp with the rabbit. 
“Brackenfur?” he called, gazing around for his Clanmate, 
who had been hunting with him. 

But there was no reply, and no sign of the golden-brown 
tabby warrior. Graystripe realized that in his frantic chase 
after the rabbit, he had strayed a long way from their original 
hunting ground. 

ГИ probably find him on the way back, he thought, 
picking up his prey and heading in the direction of the camp. 

But before Graystripe had gone more than a few fox- 


lengths, he heard a rustling in a clump of elder bushes just 
ahead of him. “Brackenfur?” he mumbled around his 
mouthful of rabbit fur. 

There was no response; clearly, whatever was in the 
bush, it wasn’t his Clanmate. Instantly alert, Graystripe 
dropped the rabbit and slid out his claws, bracing himself for 
an attack. He thought once more of the eyes he had been 
imagining in the darkness. It had been only a quarter moon 
since the last attack—long enough to begin to relax, but 
certainly not long enough for the threat to be gone. Now 
that he wasn’t carrying the rabbit and his jaws weren’t filled 
with the overwhelming tang of fresh-kill, he could pick up 
BloodClan scent coming from the bush. His heart began to 
pound as he fought to wrestle down his panic. 

Have some of the BloodClan cats caught me alone? 

“Come out, whoever you are!” he commanded. A 
moment later, a single cat emerged into the open. Graystripe 
recognized the pregnant queen with the patchy-colored fur. 
She was the one who had allowed him to escape after the 
ambush, when her Clanmates had left him for dead in the 
Twoleg garden; he didn’t imagine that she would attack him 
now. 

“What do you want?” he asked. 

“Tm not looking for trouble,” the she-cat assured him, 
giving him a respectful dip of her head. “In fact, from what 
I’ve seen, I think we could be helpful to each other. My 


name is Gremlin.” 

“That’s an odd name,” Graystripe muttered. 

Gremlin flicked her ears dismissively. “No odder than 
Graystripe.” 

Graystripe flinched, offended. But the she-cat went on: 
“It's the name my housefolk gave me, back when my brother 
and Ihad housefolk.” 

“You were a kittypet?” Graystripe asked, surprised; she 
did not look, or smell, like any kittypet he had ever met. 

“Once,” Gremlin replied. “A while ago now. But then my 
housefolk had a kit, and as soon as it could move about, it 
started pulling our tails and ears, so my brother and I 
decided to leave. And then we found BloodClan.” 

“T think I would rather have put up with the Twoleg kit!” 
Graystripe meowed. Even being a kittypet would be better 
than joining those crow-food-eating rogues! 

Gremlin snorted. “BloodClan was there for me when I 
needed some cat,” she told him. “For a long time, I trusted 
them with my life. But now I’m expecting kits .. . and Pm 
worried about them.” 

“Why?” Graystripe asked. Tired of standing nose to 
nose with this BloodClan cat, he gestured with his tail for 
her to sit on a patch of moss undemeath a nearby ash tree, 
and settled himself beside her. 

“BloodClan separates parents from kits as soon as the 
kits are old enough to feed themselves,” Gremlin explained. 


“Families are not allowed to live together, and the kits must 
kill BloodClan’s enemies or be killed themselves. I’ve seen 
this happen to many queens, and the fathers, too. They 
can’t protect their own kits, and often lose track of them 
entirely. Now that I’m about to have kits myself, I 
understand how they feel.” Her voice quivered. “These kits 
are a part of те... I love them already, more than I’ve ever 
loved any cat, except maybe my brother. But I know ГЇ have 
to say good-bye to them, and it breaks my heart. I can’t bear 
the thought of it. What if something bad happens to them? 
They’ll be too young to defend themselves.” 

As she was speaking, Graystripe found himself 
becoming more sympathetic toward her, but he was still 
confused about why she was telling him this. What could 
she possibly want from him, or from ThunderClan? “I have 
kits myself, so I understand how you feel,” he told her. “But 
what сап J do to help? You’re my enemy, and I’m yours.” 

“We are now, but... .” Gremlin leaned closer toward him. 
“Гуе been watching the Clans for some time,” she 
confessed in a low voice. “I’ve seen how Clan cats treat 
their queens and kits. The queens get to stay with their kits 
while they nurse, and they get all the help they need from 
the medicine cat and the rest of the Clan. Queens don’t even 
have to hunt for themselves! It’s so different from 
BloodClan, where the queens are really on their own.” 

Now Graystripe was more deeply shocked than ever, 


hardly able to believe what he thought Gremlin was saying. 
“Wait—are you saying you want to join ThunderClan? A 
BloodClan cat?” 

Gremlin nodded. Graystripe could see desperation in her 
green eyes. “I know it’s unusual, but I hope you'll consider 
letting me in, along with my brother, Scraps. No—don’t 
refuse yet!” she added as Graystripe opened his jaws to do 
just that. “I mean, ГЇЇ prove my worthiness first, of course. I 
can contribute a lot to your Clan!” 

Suspicion prickled all along Graystripe’s spine, raising 
the fur there. “How do you plan to do that?” he asked. 

“I can help you keep your Clan safe!” Gremlin declared. 
“Isn’t that the most important thing a leader does? And I 
know that you’re acting as leader right now. I know that 
BloodClan has threatened you. And I have to tell you, 
Scourge was fierce, but our new leader, Fury—she’s more 
bloodthirsty than Scourge ever was! And she’s dead set on 
getting revenge on the Clans. Right now, she thinks 
ThunderClan is vulnerable because your leader is gone. But 
I can find out all the details about when they plan to attack, 
and where and how they’ll do it. I can share those with you, 
so you can easily overcome them—ifyou promise to take me 
into the Clan when the battle is over, so I have a safe place 
to raise my kits.” 

Graystripe held her gaze for several heartbeats. “Why 
should I trust you?” he asked eventually. “You are part of 


BloodClan, after all. Don’t you care about those cats? How 
do I know this isn’t alla trick?” 

“T can’t prove it to you,” Gremlin answered with a sigh, 
“because no cat knows what I’ve been planning. I haven’t 
even told Scraps, and he’s the only BloodClan cat I care 
about. I know he loves me, but . . .” Gremlin ducked her 
head. “I’m afraid he’s still loyal to BloodClan.” 

“Why try to bring him with you, then?” Graystripe 
asked. “How do you know he wants to be a Clan cat?” 

“I can’t be sure... but Гуе seen BloodClan start to turn 
my brother into the worst cat he could possibly be.” Now 
Gremlin’s eyes were deep green pools of sorrow. “He needs 
a way out. There was a BloodClan cat who was like a mentor 
to him... по, not a mentor—a father. But he was killed in 
the battle with the Clans. Now Scraps is so angry, and he 
takes that anger out on other cats, always lashing out at 
them.” She paused, swallowing, and her voice shook as she 
went on. “Fury rewards that behavior, because she wants us 
angry, ready to kill our enemies. I know that, deep down, my 
gentle brother is still inside that cat somewhere. But I’m 
afraid that if we stay in BloodClan, Scraps will lose that part 
of himself forever. Or worse—he’ll die in some stupid fight 
before he ever comes to his senses.” 

Graystripe could understand that. Scraps wouldn't be 
the first to lose his way through grief for a cat he loved. But 
he was still dubious that joining ThunderClan would solve 


Scraps’s problems. “What about your kits’ father?” he 
asked. “Can’t you go to him for help?” 

Gremlin shook her head. “The father of my kits was 
never a BloodClan cat. He’s a kittypet. He did offer to let me 
join him in his housefolk’s den. But . . . well. Гуе tasted 
freedom, and I don’t want to go back to the kittypet life. 
Besides, I know Scraps would never agree to that, and I 
won't leave him.” 

“But you think he would agree to living in a Clan?” 

Gremlin let out a small рип, halfamused, half- 
affectionate. “Yes. It might take some getting used to, but I 
think Clan life is just about wild enough for Scraps, and just 
safe enough for me.” 

Graystripe tucked his paws underneath him and sat 
gazing at Gremlin, blinking in deep thought. His first instinct 
was to try to help her, but natural caution was holding him 
back. She was a BloodClan cat, after all, one of the Clan of 
rogues who’d tried to kill Graystripe. Not to mention, they 
had brought devastation to the forest not all that many 
seasons ago. And I know my Clanmates wont exactly be 
thrilled if I let two of their cats join ThunderClan— 
especially as even she admits that one of them doesnt know 
when to keep his claws sheathed. 

Taking a deep breath, Graystripe began, “Pll think about 


> 


He was interrupted by an indignant yowl, rising from 


behind the elder bushes where Gremlin had been hiding. 
Brackenfur stormed out into the open and stood in front of 
Graystripe with his shoulder fur bristling. 

“What is there to think about?” he demanded. “We can’t 
trust this cat!” 

“Have you been eavesdropping?” Graystripe retorted, 
springing to his paws. “How much did you hear?” 

“Enough,” Brackenfur meowed grimly. “And it’s a good 
thing I did. We searched for BloodClan all over the territory 
and couldn’t find so much as a whisker. Га bet this cat is 
lying about this supposed BloodClan attack, just to get into 
our Clan, and there isn’t any threat at all. That or her pack of 
rogues is still lurking around and this is another of their 
tricks. What if she wants to lead us into a trap, where 
BloodClan is waiting to tear our pelts off?” 

Well, it cant be both, Graystripe reflected, his head 
beginning to spin. Either theres no BloodClan attack 
planned, or there is, but this deal is part of the trap. “Tf 
you’d been involved in that fight the other day, you 
wouldn’t doubt that BloodClan is still strong enough to hurt 
us,” he mewed grimly. 

“Pm not lying, I promise!” Gremlin protested. “It’s up to 
you to decide whether to trust me or not. But remember, if 
you choose wrong, I won't be the cat who dies. Гуе fought 
in many battles and seen many deaths. And with Fury 
leading us, and your leader ропе... I know that BloodClan 


is strong enough to take ThunderClan’s territory.” 

She rose to her paws, then headed off in the direction of 
the Twolegplace, raking Brackenfur with a scorching green 
glare as she passed him. When she reached the elder 
bushes, she stopped and turned back. 

“Graystripe, if you want to discuss this, you can ask for 
me at the red den in the Twolegplace,” she told him. “It’s 
right next to the one where Fury and the others tried to feed 
you to the dog. Smudge, the kittypet who lives there, knows 
where to find me.” 

“Oh, Smudge!” Graystripe exclaimed, recollecting the 
den Gremlin meant. “I know him. He’s a good friend to the 
Clans.” It heartened Graystripe to know that Smudge was on 
good terms with Gremlin. Perhaps she could be trusted after 
all. “ГІ think about what you’ve said, and then get him to 
send you a message.” 

“Don’t think too long,” Gremlin warned him. 

She turned again and stalked off with a lash of her tail. 

Graystripe and Brackenfur were left gazing at each other; 
for a moment, neither cat spoke. “Let’s get back to camp,” 
Graystripe mewed at last, padding across to where he had 
left his rabbit. 

“Just like that?” Brackenfur responded, his shoulder fur 
beginning to rise with indignation. “You’re considering 
making a deal with a cat from BloodClan—the cats who 
almost destroyed the whole forest—and you want us to 


stroll back to camp as ifnothing has happened?” 

“Nothing has happened, not yet,” Graystripe pointed 
out. “And I only told Gremlin I would think about her offer. I 
haven’t promised her anything.” 

Brackenfur let out an angry snort. “You shouldn’t even 
have done that! If I were you, I would have sent her back to 
the Twolegplace with a few scratches to remember me by.” 

Graystripe could feel his own anger beginning to swell at 
the way his Clanmate was questioning his decision. No cat 
ever argued with Firestar like this. But he forced his fur to 
remain flat and his voice even as he replied. “You weren’t 
there when the BloodClan cats attacked me and Dustpelt 
and Brambleclaw, Fury is bloodthirsty, and I don’t like 
knowing that she’s confident she could take our territory. 
Can we afford to ignore something that might give us an 
edge?” 

“Tf that cat is telling the truth.” Brackenfur gave his pelt a 
furious shake. “But she’s a BloodClan cat. How can you 
even think about trusting her?” 

There was something about her... , Graystripe thought. 
But he had more sense than to say that aloud to Brackenfur. 
“What she said about her kits made sense,” he replied. “If 
you were a BloodClan queen, wouldn’t you be worried?” 

“We only have her word for it that BloodClan would take 
her kits away,” Brackenfur retorted. Puffing out his breath, 
he continued, “Graystripe, you were my mentor. I’ve always 


trusted you. I thought Firestar made the right decision when 
he left you in charge of the Clan. But now... I think you 
must have bees in your brain!” 

Pain clawed at Graystripe’s heart as he saw how close he 
was to losing the younger cat’s respect. But I cant make 
decisions for the whole Clan based on what one cat thinks 
about me. All the same, his confidence had taken a hard 
knock. What if l'm wrong, and Brackenfur is right when he 
tells me not to make a deal with Gremlin? 

“I promise ГЇЇ think really carefully about this,” he told 
his Clanmate. “But meanwhile, will you give me your word 
not to spread this around the Clan? I don’t want 
unnecessary trouble.” 

“Unnecessary...” Brackenfur spoke the word under his 
breath, but loud enough for Graystripe to hear. “Okay,” he 
added ungraciously. “But you’ll have to tell them, sooner or 
later.” 

“I will,’ Graystripe responded. “When I’m ready.” 

Brackenfur let out an irritated snort. “So let’s get back to 
camp,” he snapped. 

He whipped around, headed behind the elder bushes, 
and returned with a couple of mice dangling from his jaws. “I 
still think it’s a terrible idea to make a deal with that cat,” he 
muttered around the mouse tails. 

“It would be an even worse one to sit and wait for 
BloodClan to attack us with no idea of when or how the 


attack will come.” Graystripe still hadn’t given up hope of 
persuading the younger tom. “Suppose some cat offered 
you a пісе, juicy rabbit. Wouldn’t you take it?” 

Brackenfur shook his head, setting his two mice 
swinging. He was obviously still unhappy. “If it was a 
BloodClan cat, I wouldn’t touch it with a single claw. But 
you’re acting leader” he growled, “so I guess it’s your 
decision.” 

It is, unfortunately. “Let’s get back,” Graystripe meowed, 
picking up his rabbit. 

As they headed toward the camp, Graystripe let his 
Clanmate walk a few paces ahead, aware of his still-bristling 
fur and the irritated twitching of his tail. J guess hes showing 
me how the rest of the Clan will react if I make a deal with 
Gremlin. He could almost hear the furious yowls that would 
erupt from his Clanmates, and see their glaring eyes. I’m not 
looking forward to that, not one bit. But Imight have to put 
up with it, for the sake of the Clan. He let out a long, 
despairing sigh. Oh, Firestar when are you coming home? 

Then he realized that he wasn’t entirely alone. There was 
one cat whose wisdom he could trust, who would give him 
her advice without blaming him or growing angry. Thank 
StarClan I have Cinderpelt to rely on! 

Back in the camp, Graystripe took his rabbit to the elders, 
then pushed his way through the fern tunnel into the 
medicine cat’s den. Cinderpelt was there, pulling out a thorn 


from Sorrelpaw’s pad. As he waited, Graystripe pondered the 
conversation he’d just had with Brackenfur. Would Firestar 
agree with him that a deal with Gremlin is too risky? What 
would Firestar do? It was hard to imagine. 

“There, give it a good lick,” Cinderpelt meowed as a few 
drops of blood trickled out from where she’d removed the 
thorn. “Go back to your den and rest, then come and see me 
again first thing tomorrow. No more duties until then, and if 
Dustpelt complains, send himto me.” 

“Thank you, Cinderpelt!” Sorrelpaw responded between 
vigorous licks. 

“And stay off that paw,” Cinderpelt added as the young 
apprentice rose to leave. 

“T will!” Sorrelpaw tottered out of the den on three legs, 
dipping her head in a respectful nod to Graystripe as she 
passed him. 

Watching her go, Cinderpelt let out a sigh and carefully 
moved the thorn aside. “When will cats start to watch where 
they’re putting their paws?” Turning to Graystripe, she 
continued, “Hi, Graystripe. What can I do for you?” 

“I need your advice,” Graystripe replied. Settling himself 
beside the medicine cat, he told her about his encounter with 
Gremlin in the forest, the deal she had offered him, and 
Brackenfur’s outraged reaction. “What do you think I 
should do?” 

Cinderpelt had listened to his story without interrupting, 


her expression calm but serious. When he had finished 
speaking, she turned her head away, deep thought 
darkening her blue eyes. Graystripe felt his belly churning as 
he waited for her reaction. 

Eventually, the medicine cat turned back to Graystripe. 
“This is a big decision,’ she murmured. “I don’t feel 
comfortable making it alone. I want to go to the Moonstone 
and seek advice from StarClan there.” 


CHAPTER 17 


% 


— Now — 


Still skirting the outside of the Twolegplace, Graystripe 
headed back toward Highstones and the Moonstone. Now 
he was sure he was on what had once been WindClan 
territory, where the trees and thick undergrowth of the 
remaining forest gave way to moorland with patches of 
gorse and jutting rocks breaking up the sweep of rough 
grass. 

As he padded up the long slope toward the ridge, his 
gaze firmly fixed on his destination, he couldn’t shake off the 
weird feeling that he was being watched. The sensation had 
followed him all the way from Fourtrees; it felt as if ants were 
crawling through his pelt. 

Am I imagining things? 

Graystripe couldn’t imagine who—or what—might have 
been watching him for so long. The only cats around there 
were kittypets, and any predator would have attacked long 
before. 

He paused to taste the air, but he couldn’t distinguish 
anything useful from beneath the mingled scents wafting 
from the Twolegplace. But once he had stopped, he realized 
that he could hear faint sounds coming from behind him: the 


snap ofa twig, the stirring ofa branch in the gorse bushes. 

His suspicions rising, he whirled around. “Who’s 
there?” he demanded. “I’m a ThunderClan warrior, and ГЇЇ 
tear the pelt off any cat who tries to mess with me!” 

For a long moment, nothing happened. Then Graystripe 
spotted movement among a clump of gorse bushes several 
fox-lengths farther down the hillside. He saw the flash of a 
tortoiseshell pelt, and then Monkeystar slid out into the 
open, followed by Clawwhistle, Bigteeth, Bugeater, Chester 
and Fireface. They stood looking up at him, shuffling their 
paws in embarrassment. 

At first, Graystripe was torn between annoyance and 
grudging respect. Гуе taught them too well, he realized. 
They уе been able to stalk me all the way from the river! 

“We're sorry,” Monkeystar mewed, though after her 
initial awkwardness her eyes began to sparkle and she didn’t 
look a bit sorry. “We just really, really want to know where 
the Moonstone is. And our housefolk are used to us 
disappearing for a night or two to have adventures. They 
won’t worry too much.” 

“Staying away for a night or two is the best way to get 
extra treats!” Bugeater added excitedly. “Our housefolk 
always spoil us whenever we’ve been missing for a while.” 

Annoyance finally won. “There’s no reason for you to 
follow me,” Graystripe snapped, “because you cant go 
inside Mothermouth to see the Moonstone. J shouldn’t 


even be going inside—it’s for medicine cats and Clan 
leaders only—but this is an emergency.” 

“What emergency?” Clawwhistle asked. “Maybe we 
could help.” 

“Never mind what emergency,” Graystripe retorted. 

He couldn’t face trying to explain to these kittypets what 
had been happening among the Clans. It was just too 
depressing. And he had no idea what WarriorClan would 
make of the news that an evil spirit cat had possessed a Clan 
leader’s body. He wasn’t even sure he understood it himself. 

Let them believe that being a warrior is all about 
hunting and being fierce. 

“Please let us come with you,’ Monkeystar begged, 
blinking appealingly at Graystripe. “I promise none ofus will 
go in, if you’ll just show us where it is.” 

Graystripe hesitated. They had stalked him this far, and 
he was pretty certain that if he refused to take them, they 
would just carry on following him in secret. The only way he 
could stop them would be to claw them up and chase them 
off the hard way, and he really didn’t want to do that. / like 
the stupid furballs far too much! Reluctantly, he realized that 
whatever he decided, he would slow himself down. Letting 
the kittypets come with him might be the most practical 
choice. 

“Okay,” he meowed eventually. “But you have to 
remember, you can’t go inside, and you have to do exactly 


as I tell you.” 

“Oh, we will!” Monkeystar gave an excited little bounce. 
“We promise!” 

The kittypets swarmed around Graystripe as he set off 
again up the hill. They seemed to be full of energy, in spite 
of the long way they had already traveled, bounding off to 
stick their noses into every hole or patch of reeds, like 
overeager kits. Their squeals of excitement rose into the air, 
and Graystripe reflected how lucky they were that there were 
no more WindClan warriors patrolling the territory. He 
wasn’t sure how they would cope once they grew tired, but 
he doubted they would give up on their long journey now. 

As they reached the outskirts of WindClan’s old 
territory, the sun had gone down and twilight was gathering. 
Graystripe began to pick up the harsh scent of the 
Thunderpath, and spotted the glaring eyes of monsters as 
they cut through the darkness. 

“Come here!” he called to the WarriorClan cats. 

He was startled at how quickly they obeyed, clustering 
around him so that he could lead them up to the edge of the 
Thunderpath. “Stop right there,” he ordered, raising his tail 
to halt them before they could venture out onto the hard 
surface. 

“Oh, we know about this,” Bigteeth meowed. “Monsters 
aren’t dangerous if you’re careful.” 

A chill ran through Graystripe’s pelt. The little 


Thunderpaths that divided Twoleg dens were much less 
perilous than this wide expanse, where the monsters growled 
up and down at terrifying speeds. 

“That may be true,” he responded to Bigteeth, “but now 
I’m going to show you how warriors cross a Thunderpath. 
Line up along the edge, and don’t move until I tell you that 
it’s safe.” 

The kittypets did as they were told; they jostled for 
position at first, then settled down and gazed seriously at 
Graystripe as they waited for his instructions. 

“Right,” Graystripe continued. “Now we wait until we 
can’t hear or see any sign of a monster. Then when I say 
‘run,’ I mean run. Straight across, and no stopping to chase 
moths. Got it?” 

“Got it!” the kittypets echoed. 

Graystripe waited for a monster to sweep by, his fur 
buffeted by the wind of its passing. When its noise and 
glare had retreated into the distance, and the stench had 
started to fade, he looked up and down the Thunderpath 
and couldn’t see any more monsters approaching. Even so, 
he was determined not to give the order until he was certain 
the crossing would be absolutely safe. “Now! Run!” he 
yowled at last. 

The kittypets all took off for the opposite side in a blur 
of chuming paws; Graystripe hesitated for a couple of 
heartbeats to make sure they were all on their way, then 


followed. But he didn’t relax until all six of them were safely 
across, rolling around in the grass and letting out mrrows of 
laughter. 

“That was fun!” Fireface exclaimed, sitting up and 
swiping at a grass stemstuck on his nose. 

“Can we do it again?” Chester asked. 

StarClan, give me strength! Graystripe thought, rolling 
his eyes. “You’ll be able to do it again on the way back,” he 
pointed out. “Now we have to get to Highstones.” 

As he led the way onward, the last of the daylight had 
almost faded away, leaving a thick darkness; clouds were 
covering almost the whole of the sky, cutting off the light of 
moon and stars. Graystripe wondered how the kittypets 
would deal with a night on the inhospitable hillside, 
especially if the threatening storm finally broke. 

“105 good we're with you,” Monkeystar meowed, 
padding along at Graystripe’s side. “Now we can help you 
deal with any threats that you face on your quest.” 

I hadnt been thinking of it as a quest, Graystripe 
thought with amusement, but I guess Monkeystar is right. 
Lets hope there are no threats needing to be faced, though! 

Aloud he pointed out, “Remember, you all promised to 
do what I tell you.” 

Monkeystar had opened her jaws to reply when a dark 
figure appeared just ahead of them, from out behind the 
shelter of a large boulder. Instantly Graystripe took a stride 


forward, placing himself between the newcomer and 
Monkeystar and making her draw up short. He let his fur 
bush out defensively, flattening his ears and letting out a 
hiss. “Who’s there?” 

In answer, he received another hiss, and he realized that 
the newcomer was a cat. He wondered what sort of cat it 
might be. The WarriorClan cats had already surprised him; 
who else would want to mess with him? Js this some sort of 
dangerous rogue? 

Around him, the WarriorClan kittypets were taking up 
what they thought were fierce stances, with their claws 
extended. 

“Awesome!” Monkeystar whispered. “A fight!” But 
Graystripe could hear the quiver in her voice. 

“We don’t want any trouble,” Graystripe mewed, making 
his voice calm. “We're just passing through.” 

To Graystripe’s surprise, the strange cat responded in a 
similarly gentle tone. “I don’t want trouble, either In 
fact . . . ,” he added, moving closer and scrutinizing 
Graystripe carefully, “I think I might be looking for you. Is 
your name Graystripe? You look like the way he was 
described to me.” 

Stunned, Graystripe let his jaws gape open. Who would 
be looking for me on the old forest territory, after so many 
seasons? 

At that moment, the moon appeared from behind a cloud, 


so that Graystripe could see the cat clearly for the first time. 
He was a skinny gray tom, with darker patches on his fur 
and vivid green eyes. One of his forelegs had a patch of torn 
fur, close to his paw, as if he had been in a fight or attacked 
by a predator. Staring, Graystripe felt there was something 
familiar about him, but he couldn’t recall ever having met him 
before. 

“Do I know you?” he asked. 

The cat shook his head. “No, but you knew my 
mother... Gremlin.” 

For a moment, Graystripe almost staggered under the 
impact of shock after shock. Suddenly a rush of memories 
came flooding back to him: That was a name he had not 
thought about in more moons than he could have hoped to 
count. Gremlin, the BloodClan queen, heavy with kits, who 
had let him escape after her Clan’s first attack on a 
ThunderClan patrol. 

“My mother told me,” the newcomer went on, “you once 
made a vow to her, that you would do anything to help her, 
no matter what.” 

Graystripe felt a stirring in his heart as he remembered 
that vow. And he remembered what Gremlin had done for 
him, and for all of ThunderClan. 

“Does that vow extend to Gremlin’s kits?” the strange 
cat asked. “Because I could do with a warrior’s help right 


” 


now. ... 


CHAPTER 18 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe followed Cinderpelt across the WindClan 
border, and the two ThunderClan cats began the long trek 
up the moorland slope. He could still taste the bitter tang of 
traveling herbs on his tongue. 

Night had fallen, and only fugitive gleams of moonlight 
shone through gaps in the clouds. Graystripe couldn't help 
looking around him at every heartbeat, alert for the glitter of 
eyes in the darkness. His ears were pricked for the sound of 
stealthy paw steps that might betray the presence of 
BloodClan, following them. But everything was silent. 

Mouse-brain! Why would BloodClan bother following 
you here? he asked himself. It’ ThunderClan territory that 
they want. To begin with, at least, he added. He knew that if 
BloodClan succeeded in overcoming ThunderClan, they 
would want to spread out into the other territories too. We re 
protecting the other Clans, if they only knew it. 

Graystripe wondered what message StarClan would give 
to Cinderpelt. He tried to remember a time when he’d seen 
Firestar accompany Cinderpelt to the Moonstone for advice, 
but he couldn’t. Maybe he doesnt need to. Maybe Firestar 
always knows exactly what he wants to do. Graystripe 


missed his Clan leader all over again, but more than that, he 
wished once more that he had his friend by his side. 

His legs were aching and his paws sore by the time he 
and Cinderpelt hauled themselves up the last steep, rocky 
slope to where Mothermouth gaped open, darker than the 
night. 

Cinderpelt, who was a couple of paw steps ahead, halted 
outside the cave and turned back to face Graystripe. “You’re 
not expecting to go inside, right?” she asked him. 

Graystripe shook his head, indignation in his tone as he 
replied. “I know not to!” 

Cinderpelt gave hima brisk nod. “Then wait here. Try to 
get some rest. I don’t know how long this will take.” Not 
waiting for a response, she slipped inside the cave, her gray 
pelt swallowed up by the darkness. 

When she was gone, Graystripe paused for several 
heartbeats, gazing into the black maw of the tunnel. Even 
here, on the outside, he felt overwhelmed by the importance 
of this place, by the weight of meaning it had held for the 
Clans, for season upon season. He shivered from his ears to 
his tail-tip at the thought of going inside. Thank StarClan 
theres no question of that! 

Instead he backed away a pace or two and tried to make 
himself comfortable on a flat stone beside the path. He 
couldn’t help worrying that he would be an easy target for 
BloodClan right now, all alone in this desolate place, but he 


knew that no cat had followed them, and that BloodClan had 
no way of knowing they were here. 

Thinking back to his meeting with Gremlin, he reminded 
himself that she had told a plausible story, and he couldn’t 
help but feel sympathy for her plight. But he wondered once 
again whether he could trust her. 

Quickly, Graystripe pushed the thought away. If 
BloodClan truly did have enough cats to take on 
ThunderClan, they wouldn’t need to resort to subterfuge; it 
would be easier for them to attack ThunderClan with claws 
and teeth. Besides, there was something about Gremlin that 
made him believe, deep down, that she was sincere. 

The night dragged on as Graystripe waited for Cinderpelt 
to return. His anxiety mounted with every passing heartbeat, 
as he thought about his dilemma: Should he accept Gremlin’s 
offer, or should he refuse it? He imagined how bad he would 
feel if everything fell apart while he was in charge, and 
Firestar returned to find a shattered Clan. 

How would I ever explain it to him? Graystripe wanted 
nothing more than to keep the Clan safe for his friend and 
leader. We ve been through so much together! 

Graystripe closed his eyes, though he expected that his 
worries would keep him awake. But moments later, he felt 
sun warm on his pelt, and found himself basking on a flat 
stone at the top of Sunningrocks, with light dazzling the 
surface of the river as the current slid by. 


Firestar was stretched out beside him. “I’m proud of 
you,” he purred. “You handled everything so well!” 

“Er... I don’t know about that,” Graystripe began, 
giving his chest fur an embarrassed lick. 

“Daft furball!” Firestar gave his friend an affectionate 
prod with his nose. “I just want you to know how pleased I 
am, and how confident I feel that you’ll be an excellent 
leader when I’m gone.” 

Graystripe felt a surge of terror at the thought. Me? 
Leader? Without Firestar to guide me? He reflected that he 
had done it before, and obviously it had turned out okay, 
but... How did things work out with Gremlin and the 
BloodClan cats? I cant remember... 

When Graystripe turned back to face Firestar, he saw 
with a shock of horror that his friend had turned into a one- 
eyed she-cat with scars and long tabby fur. Fury! 

The BloodClan leader hurtled toward him, her claws 
reaching for him. “Wake up!” she yowled. 


“Graystripe! Wake up!” 

Forcing his eyes open, Graystripe saw Cinderpelt 
standing over him. He realized that he had fallen asleep 
outside Mothermouth, and the medicine cat had returned 
from the cave. Her blue eyes were still unfocused, as if her 
paws had only just carried her out of StarClan’s territory. 

Graystripe struggled to his paws. “What did you see?” 
he asked eagerly. “What did StarClan tell you?” 


He noticed that Cinderpelt seemed to be struggling to 
appear calm, as if something had disturbed her deeply. 

“There are far more cats in StarClan these days,” she 
murmured. “And I don’t think ГЇЇ ever get used to seeing 
Yellowfang there. She used to be my mentor, and now...” 

Remembering the cranky old medicine cat, Graystripe 
could understand how much Cinderpelt must be missing her. 
She had died after breathing too much smoke in the fire that 
had roared through the camp a few seasons before. 

“She was a fine medicine cat,” he mewed. “We all grieve 
for her. The Clan feels different without her.” 

Cinderpelt gave her head an impatient shake. “I suppose 
this is just the way it is. Things change, and you lose 
Clanmates. ГЇЇ just have to get used to it.” 

When she said no more, Graystripe rested his tail-tip 
gently on her shoulder. “Did StarClan provide any guidance 
about Gremlin, and what we should do about BloodClan?” 

“Pm not sure,” Cinderpelt replied. “I sent out the 
question to StarClan, but what I got back wasn’t a direct 
answer.” 

“Why am I not surprised?” Graystripe muttered under 
his breath; he was aware by now that StarClan never seemed 
to offer a straight answer to a straight question. Tuming 
back to Cinderpelt, he asked, “Well, what did they say?” 

“They told me... ‘Like a three-headed snake, many 
paths split off into the forest. Graystripe must walk his own 


999 


path ... but he must beware the snake’s bite. 

Graystripe’s pelt bushed with alarm. “And what does 
that mean?” 

“StarClan wants you to make your own decision,” 
Cinderpelt responded. Graystripe detected a tiny sliver of 
doubt in her tone, and guessed that she was trying hard to 
sound certain. “I promise ГЇЇ support you, whatever you 
choose.” 

Graystripe shook out his fur, then dipped his head to the 
ThunderClan medicine cat. “Thank you.” But though he felt 
real gratitude, he couldn’t help being disappointed at the 
same time. He had hoped that StarClan would help him in 
some way, or at least show him the path his paws should 
follow. Instead they had laid the burden of deciding squarely 
on his own shoulders. 

Ifonly Firestar were here... 


CHAPTER 19 


Se 


— Now — 


“I dont think I believe this cat!” Monkeystar declared, 
glaring at the newcomer from where she stood at 
Graystripe’s shoulder. 

“I certainly don’t,” Clawwhistle agreed. “What kind of 
name is Gremlin for a cat?” 

“Would you like us to drive him away for you?” 
Bugeater asked. She flashed her claws, but Graystripe could 
see from the way her paws were trembling that she didn’t 
really want to use them. 

The other cats of WarriorClan had arrayed themselves in 
a loose line facing the strange tom, their fur bristling and 
their teeth bared, but none of them seemed as though they 
were looking forward to leaping into battle. 

“Don’t make a move,” Graystripe wamed them. “We can 
sort this out without claws.” 

He hoped he was right. Here on the dark hillside, with 
ominous clouds massing overhead, it seemed as if almost 
anything could happen. And yet it would be an incredibly 
stupid cat who would attack a group of seven others, even if 
six of them were young kittypets. 

Taking a pace forward, Graystripe let his gaze travel 


slowly over the stranger and drank in his scent. He didn’t 
smell like any cat or Clan that Graystripe had ever known, 
and yet the tomsaid he was Gremlin’s kit. 

Then Graystripe remembered what his son Stormfur had 
told him when he was visiting the Tribe of Rushing Water. 
There was a rogue cat asking about me, on this side of the 
mountains. This must be him! 

“Thank you for your protection,” he continued to the 
kittypets, “but Gremlin was a friend to me, and I did promise 
to help her in any way I could.” Glancing back at the 
newcomer, he added, “Yes, that includes helping her kits. So 
what can I do for you?” 

The tom ducked his head respectfully to Graystripe, 
relief and gratitude shining in his eyes. “My name is Fang,” 
he began. “I escaped a moon or so ago froma Twoleg den, 
and I’ve been looking for help ever since. I” 

Suspecting that the rogue was about to ask him to take 
him back to ThunderClan’s camp so that he could join them, 
just as his mother had done so long ago, Graystripe held up 
a paw to stop him. “Га have to consult with the Clan before 
I can bring in another kittypet,” he stated. 

“No, you don’t understand,” Fang responded. “I don’t 
want to leave. I want to go back to the Twoleg den. I have 
to.” 

“Why?” Graystripe asked. He was relieved that Fang 
didn’t expect to be offered a place in ThunderClan, but 


completely confused by what the gray tom had said he 
meant to do. Гуе never heard ofa cat who escaped Twolegs 
wanting to go back! 

Fang hesitated, digging his claws into the ground as if 
he was remembering something really painful. Then he took 
a deep breath and continued. “Things are very bad there. I 
was only able to escape because the Twoleg left a hole in 
the door just big enough for me to slip through. Once I was 
outside, I wanted to save every other cat, but I couldn’t 
work out how to do it. But there are still cats I care about in 
there.” His voice shook as he added, “My mate, Daffodil, is 
there, and she’s ill. She smells strange, and she’s having 
trouble breathing. So that’s why I need your help, 
Graystripe. Please—I’m desperate.” 

Graystripe could see that Fang was telling the truth; his 
distress was too deep for him to be faking it. And he must be 
really out of options if he thought he could solve his 
problems by looking for me—a cat he5 never met, who lives 
so far away! 

“T wish I could help,” he replied, “but I don’t see what I 
can do. Pm sorry, but if you couldn’t find a way back into a 
den where you’ve lived for so long, what makes you think 
that a stranger would be able to?” 

“I don’t know,” Fang meowed. “But you’re a warrior! 
Gremlin always said that warriors were clever and honorable. 
The least you can do is try.” When Graystripe hesitated, he 


went on more urgently, “Just follow me to the den and see 
what you think.” 

“Where is it?” Graystripe asked, determined not to delay 
his own mission with any more traveling. “Far from here?” 

“Not very,” Fang replied. “Just on the other side of what 
used to be RiverClan territory. Please, Graystripe .. .” 

“Well . . . ,” Graystripe mewed hesitantly. Crossing 
RiverClan wouldnt be too bad. I wanted to pass through 
there, anyway—before I got sidetracked by WarriorClan. 
Its not as if hes asking me to trek all the way to the sun- 
drown-place. 

“You’ve never seen anything like it,” Fang told him. “It’s 
terrible. Гуе already been out for more than a moon, 
searching for you or any cat who might help. But I haven’t 
been able to travel far—I try to check on the other prisoners 
as often as I can, and with every sunrise it seems to be 
getting worse in there.” 

“It sounds dangerous ...,” Graystripe murmured. “And 
Pm sorry, but I already have somewhere else I need to be.” 

And yet Fang’s resemblance to his mother was so 
strong ...Graystripe’s thoughts were flooded with memories 
of Gremlin. He couldn’t forget how she had once put herself 
at risk for him and the rest of ThunderClan when she’d had 
so many reasons not to. If I can repay her by helping her 
kit, I want to do it. Its no more than she deserves. 

“ГИ help you if I can,” he promised Fang. “But I have to 


go to the Moonstone first.” 

Fang blinked in confusion. “What’s the Moonstone?” 

“Something I hope will help me get some answers from 
the spirits of my warrior ancestors,” Graystripe replied. “The 
Clans are in need of guidance. In other words, Fang, I need 
help ... just like you do.” 

Fang couldn’t restrain an impatient twitch of his 
whiskers, clearly anxious to get on with his own mission. 
Then he nodded. “Thank you. I accept your help, and ГЇЇ 
come with you to this Moonstone, if that’s okay.” 

“You can’t come inside,” Graystripe explained, “because 
it’s a place that is sacred to the Clans. But you can 
accompany me to the Mothermouth—the cave it rests 
inside. These cats are traveling with me, as well—despite my 
best efforts.” He cast a wry glance toward the WarriorClan 
cats, who puffed out their fluffy chests. 

“Мете on a quest,” Clawwhistle said excitedly. “It’s very 
important.” 

Fang looked them over and nodded. “Let’s go, then.” 

Graystripe and Fang set off side by side, with the 
WarriorClan kittypets following at a respectful distance. 
Graystripe couldn’t help stealing glances at the tomas they 
started up the hill. He looks so much like her. 

The slope was becoming steeper now, the rough grass 
more sparse as the moorland began to give way to the 
towering rocks of Highstones. But at least, Graystripe 


thought with sincere relief, we've left the Twolegplace 
behind. 

At first they traveled in silence, until Graystripe heard a 
hollow growl coming from Fang’s belly. “Are you hungry?” 
he asked. “Have you eaten? Do you know how to hunt?” 

Fang shook his head. “ГЇЇ be fine,” he mewed, sounding 
embarrassed. 

Graystripe halted. “No, you will not be fine. If you need 
to eat, we’ll eat. I don’t want a collapsing cat on my paws 
while we’re all the way up here.” 

“Okay, I’m really starving.” Fang gave in with a sigh. 
“My belly thinks my throat’s torn out. I told you,” he 
continued, “I’ve been searching for you, or some other cat 
to help, for more than a moon now. Finding prey hasn’t 
always been easy, and I didn’t want to waste too much time 
hunting. It’s a while since I’ve eaten, and longer still since 
Гуе felt really full... .” 

No wonder hes skinny, Graystripe thought, shaking his 
head. Hes lucky he came across me when he did. “We'll 
look for some prey, then,” he meowed. 

“But I don’t see anything up here,” Fang objected. “It’s 
too bleak. And we would waste so much time if we went 
back down.” 

“Just because we can’t see the prey doesn’t mean it isn’t 
there,” Graystripe grunted. 

He padded a little way ahead, raising his head and 


opening his mouth to taste the air A trace of rabbit drifted 
on his indrawn breath. His pads prickled and his jaws began 
to water with anticipation. / 5 a while since Гуе eaten, too. 

Gathering WarriorClan together with a sweep of his tail, 
he bent his head and spoke in a low voice. “Stay here, and 
keep perfectly still. And quiet,” he added as Monkeystar 
opened her jaws—to protest, he assumed. “You too, Fang.” 

The clouds had grown thicker still, but there was just 
enough light for Graystripe to see what he was doing. He 
crept across the moor, following the tantalizing scent trail, 
until he spotted a hole in a shallow bank, almost hidden by 
two jutting stones. Careful to keep downwind, he crouched 
just above the hole and batted a loose pebble into it. 

A moment later, he heard faint scrabbling from inside the 
hole, and a rabbit poked its head out to investigate. 
Graystripe looked down on its smooth brown head and two 
furry ears, then launched himself onto its shoulders and 
sank his teeth deep into its neck. 

Well, that was easy, Graystripe thought with satisfaction 
as he picked up his prey and carried it back to the others. 

Fang let out an impressed hiss as Graystripe dropped the 
rabbit at his paws. “You caught that rabbit so quickly!” he 
exclaimed. “How did you do that?” 

Graystripe felt faintly embarrassed, though he told 
himself privately that it had been a pretty outstanding bit of 
stalking. “So much of effective hunting is about patience, 


scent, and putting yourself in the right position,” he told 
Fang. “We might not always be faster than our prey, so we 
have to be smarter.” 

“Can we eat, please?” Monkeystar asked. “We’re all so 
hungry!” 

“Of course,” Graystripe replied, though he made sure to 
push the rabbit directly in front of Fang. “There’s plenty for 
every cat.” 

As they all crouched down to share the rabbit, 
Graystripe was aware of Fang eyeing him, curiosity and awe 
in his green eyes. Z hope I dont disappoint him, he thought. 

When there was nothing left of the rabbit except some 
bones and scraps of fur, Bigteeth and Bugeater both started 
yawning, as if they wanted to curl up and go to sleep. As 
Graystripe rose to his paws, ready to go on, the two 
kittypets exchanged an awkward glance. Graystripe could 
tell that the idea of traveling even farther from their Twoleg 
nest didn’t seem so appealing, now that they were faced 
with the reality of it. 

“Actually, now that it’s getting darker, I think we should 
go home,” Bigteeth began. “Some cat has to defend our 
territory.” 

“Yeah, who knows what might be happening back 
there?” Bugeater added. “Sometimes the human kits get 
scared in the dark, so I have to snuggle with them.” 

“That sounds like a good idea,” Graystripe meowed, 


hiding his amusement. “I’m glad they have such brave 
warriors willing to guard their dens.” 

While they were talking, the first drops of rain began to 
fall, and within heartbeats a thin drizzle swept across the 
moor. Graystripe shivered as the chill penetrated his pelt. 

“You know, I think ГЇЇ come with you,” Fireface mewed 
to his friends. “You might need help finding your way back.” 

“Me too,” Chester added. 

Monkeystar sighed and rolled her eyes. “Well, okay, if 
you must,” she responded. “But Pm sticking with 
Graystripe. What about you, Clawwhistle?” 

“Tm staying, too,” the fluffy orange tom replied. “I want 
to see where the Moonstone is.” 

“See you tomorrow, then,” Monkeystar meowed as her 
four Clan members turned to go. 

“And be careful crossing back over the Thunderpath!” 
Graystripe called after them. “Remember how we did it, and 
wait until you’re sure it’s safe!” 

Chester acknowledged his waming with a wave of his 
tail. 

Graystripe was slightly anxious about letting the four 
kittypets head off alone in this bleak landscape, but there 
was no way of stopping them. He had no time, and he 
couldn’t delay his own mission to go back now. He only 
hoped that if the four of them stayed together, they would 
be okay. 


The four remaining cats toiled on up the hill. The last of 
the moorland grass gave way to bare stone, slick with rain 
that made their claws slip. The drizzle had grown heavier 
until the cats’ pelts were drenched and they could hardly see 
a fox-length in front ofthem. It felt like forever that they were 
scrabbling up the wet, slippery rocks. 

Finally, the dark hole of Mothermouth loomed up ahead. 

“At last!” Monkeystar let out a grateful squeal. “We can 
get in out of the rain!” 

As she began to bound forward, Graystripe barred her 
way with his tail. “Stop! Remember what I told you. You 
can’t go in.” 

“You’re joking,” Fang meowed, gaping in disbelief. “I 
know we can’t go all the way inside. But you mean we can’t 
even take shelter? We have to stand out here in this deluge 
to wait for you?” 

Graystripe nodded. “I’m sorry. But this is something I 
have to do alone.” 

“But we came all this way,” Monkeystar protested. “We 
have to go in to protect you!” 

“And to get dry,” Clawwhistle added. His fluffy pelt was 
plastered to his sides, and he made a futile attempt to shake 
it out. 

“Pm sorry,” Graystripe repeated. “But I can’t let you 
enter under any circumstances. It’s for your own safety. 
Honestly, I’m not sure J’m supposed to go in, either. The 


Moonstone cave is only to be entered by leaders or 
medicine cats. I just hope I’m reading StarClan’s wishes 
correctly. I need to make contact with them—some cat must, 
for the future of all of the Clans—so ГЇЇ have to risk 
StarClan’s disapproval.” 

While Graystripe was speaking, Fang had padded closer 
to the entrance of the cave, sniffing the air curiously. “This 
all seems a little strange to me,” he admitted. “Who’s 
StarClan? It’s so dark inside there, and I’m not sure I 
recognize the scent.” 

Because it smells like our ancestors, Graystripe thought. 
He saw deep unease in the faces of his companions, but he 
felt safe at Mothermouth, even if he knew that warriors 
usually weren’t allowed inside. These cats were my kin, my 
mentors, the cats who shaped me. Of course I belong here. 1 
only hope that Ican speak with them again. 

For a moment, Graystripe’s mind was invaded by the 
memory of all the cats he had loved and lost. Silverstream, 
Feathertail, Millie, Briarlight . . . and Firestar Always 
Firestar 

So many cats had died more recently, in the troubles 
Bramblestar’s impostor had brought to the Clans, but 
suddenly it was grief for his long-lost friends and kin that 
threatened to overwhelm him. Strangely, his grief also filled 
him with purpose. His legs felt stronger and his paws 
seemed eager to carry him into the dark. For a moment, he 


forgot about the rain and the cold. “StarClan is what we call 
our ancestors,” he told Fang, his voice strong. “They’re the 
cats we loved deeply while they were alive, and now they 
guide us by giving their advice. But to get it, I must go in 
alone.” 

If I have any chance of connecting with Firestar, he 
thought, or any of our ancestors, surely it will happen here! 

“Fang,” he went on, “I noticed an overhanging rock a 
few tail-lengths farther down the path, if you tum past the 
cave. You can take Monkeystar and Clawwhistle and shelter 
there. Wait for me until I come back.” 

“Okay,” Monkeystar meowed. “Just yowl if you need 
us.” 

Fang dipped his head to Graystripe. “We’ll be ready,” he 
promised, and led the WarriorClan kittypets down the path. 

Graystripe watched them pad away through the driving 
rain, then turned back to Mothermouth. As he slowly 
stepped inside, he heard the first rumble of thunder 
muttering across the mountainside. 

He was thankful to get out of the downpour himself, and 
shake raindrops from his pelt so that at least he could stop 
dripping. But he found it unnerving that as soon as he took 
his first tentative paw steps into the cave, he was engulfed 
in pitch-black darkness. 

If this is what the medicine cats had to contend with 
every time, I’m glad they never invited me inside. 


But then, he reflected, it would be far less terrifying to 
walk into the tunnel behind a medicine cat than to do it 
alone, as he had to now. 

“Come on,” he muttered to himself. “Are you a warrior or 
a mouse?” 

Determinedly, Graystripe set off into the darkness. The 
cave floor was smooth underneath his pads, and it sloped 
gradually downward; the tunnel was so narrow that his pelt 
brushed the walls on either side. Now and again he felt a 
current of air from the other passages that opened up on 
either side, but there was never any doubt about which was 
the main pathway he needed to follow. 

As he ventured farther, Graystripe became conscious of 
the massive weight of earth and rock above his head. His 
chest began to heave as he imagined the mountain sinking 
down upon him, cutting off his breath, or the tunnel roof 
collapsing behind him, trapping him underground. He began 
to fear that the passage had no end, and he would go on like 
this, padding through the stone tunnel, forever and ever. 

He was wrestling with his terror when he realized that the 
blackness ahead of him was beginning to grow lighter. The 
pale radiance grew until he could see the end of the tunnel in 
front of him, and a few paw steps later he stepped out into 
an enormous cavern. 

Its walls soared up on every side, and in the roof a 
ragged hole showed roiling clouds illuminated by a sudden 


flash of lightning. Thunder rolled out again, even louder 
now. 

But Graystripe gave the cavern’s jagged ceiling no more 
than a passing glance. All his attention was focused on the 
center of the cave, where a large translucent rock reared up 
more than three tail-lengths toward the roof. It glowed 
faintly in the dim light fromthe stormy sky above. 

“The Moonstone,” Graystripe whispered, his eyes wide 
with wonder. Awe filled him, so that it took all his courage to 
move his paws. He padded forward hesitantly, paused, then 
forced himself to cross the rest of the space between himself 
and the mystic, faintly shining stone. 

His heart was beating hard as he approached and sank 
into a crouch a tail-length away. Bowing his head in deepest 
respect, he spoke hesitantly into the void, picturing in his 
mind the face that always floated first into his memory. 

“Firestar,” he began, “my fearless friend, I miss you. 
Every cat in ThunderClan misses you. And even though 
you’re not with us in life anymore, we need you more than 
ever. I hope that you can help us—help me—now.” 

Graystripe stopped speaking, hoping to hear Firestar’s 
bold voice fill the silence. But nothing happened, nothing 
but another flash of lightning somewhere above and another 
rumble of thunder as the storm thrashed the mountaintop. 

Have I angered StarClan? he wondered. Maybe 1 
should have spoken to all of them, not just to Firestar. 


“StarClan, I hope Pm not offending you by being here,” 
Graystripe continued when he had waited several moments 
for an answer. “I would never have come unless I really 
needed your help. To tell you truly, all five of the Clans need 
help, and I am not sure how much longer we can go on 
without the spirits of our ancestors to guide us. So please,” 
he finished, trying to put all his heart into his words, “if you 
have any wisdom for me, I would be grateful if you shared it 
now.” 

The echoes of his voice died away into silence. 
Graystripe began to feel as if all he was doing was talking to 
himself. He could hardly bear the aching of his heart. 

Maybe I was foolish to think that StarClan would 
speak to me, even here, where our leaders and medicine 
cats sought guidance for seasons upon seasons. Maybe 
there truly is something the Clans have done to offend 
StarClan, just like the false spirit cat told из... or maybe 
the intruder has done something to cut us off. 

Maybe I dont know any more than those goofy kittypets 
who followed me here. 

Weary and disillusioned, Graystripe rose to his paws. He 
wasn’t only angry with StarClan; he was angry with himself, 
too, for wasting so much time when there were other, more 
practical demands upon him. 

He was turning to leave when... 

CRASH! 


Without warning, a sound louder than anything he had 
heard before shook the cavern walls. He let out a yowl of 
pain as the noise filled his ears, and just a breath later he 
worried that he might be blinded, as the whole world seemed 
to disappear in a flash of dazzling white light. Whats 
happening? The light blinked out but Graystripe was still 
seeing spots as he stumbled backward and fell to the cave 
floor, wrapping his forepaws around his head. 

Гуе made StarClan angry! Is this the end? Firestar 
where are you? 


CHAPTER 20 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe crouched at the edge of the trees and stared 
across the stretch of open ground that separated him from 
the outlying dens of the Twolegplace. Every hair on his pelt 
was prickling with the sense of danger looming ahead. 

“This certainly could be a trap.” Cinderpelt, crouching 
beside him, gave him a long look from steady blue eyes. 
“Are you sure you want to go ahead?” 

For a moment, Graystripe wasn’t sure how to answer his 
medicine cat. Earlier that day he had sent a message, via the 
kittypet Smudge, for Gremlin to meet him here, but he was 
well aware that the BloodClan queen might bring a patrol of 
her vicious Clanmates with her, all of them ready with teeth 
and claws. 

“I trust Gremlin,” he responded at last. “But if 'm wrong, 
and there’s trouble—Cinderpelt, your job is to get out and 
head for camp as fast as you can. Bring help, but keep 
yourself safe. ThunderClan can’t do without its medicine 
cat.” 

Cinderpelt simply nodded. Graystripe knew that she 
understood her duty even better than he did. 

He tasted the air, picking up the fading scents of the last 


ThunderClan patrol that had passed through, and mingled 
kittypet scents from the Twoleg dens ahead of him. There 
was dog-scent, too, but none of it nearby, or fresh. With a 
last wary glance around, he rose to his paws. 

“Let’s do this!” 

He streaked across the patch of open ground, raced up 
the fence, and leaped down into Smudge’s garden. 
Cinderpelt, hampered by her lame leg, followed more slowly. 

A stretch of grass, bordered by bright Twoleg flowers, 
separated the fence from the walls of the den. Smudge was 
lying on his side in a sunny spot, lazily batting with one paw 
at a butterfly that fluttered just out of reach, as if it was 
teasing the plump kittypet. 

Smudge sprang to his paws, startled, as Graystripe 
appeared. “Wow! It’s you again. You scared me out of my 
fur!” 

“Sorry.” Padding up to Smudge, Graystripe nodded 
toward his Clanmate. “This is Cinderpelt, ThunderClan’s 
medicine cat.” 

“Hi, Cinderpelt,” Smudge meowed as the gray she-cat 
padded up to join Graystripe. “Would you like to come 
inside my den?” he added politely. “There's plenty of food, 
and a bowl of milk.” 

“No, thanks all the same,” Graystripe replied. “We’re 
here to meet Gremlin. Is she—” 

“She’s here,” a voice interrupted from the top of the 


fence that separated Smudge’s garden fromthe next one. 

Graystripe looked up to see the BloodClan queen drop 
down into the garden, clumsy because of her pregnant belly. 
He noticed that Cinderpelt was observing her with narrowed 
eyes, though the medicine cat said nothing. 

“Okay, Graystripe,” Gremlin began, trotting up with a 
brief nod to Smudge. “What’s your decision? Will you let me 
and Scraps join your Clan?” 

“Pm still thinking about it,” Graystripe told her. He felt 
terribly awkward knowing that he and Cinderpelt were still 
hiding this deal from the rest of the Clan, but he needed to 
know more. “First I need to know what you have to offer 
us.” 

“Twon’t fight for you,” Gremlin began. 

“No cat would expect you to,” Cinderpelt interrupted. 
“Not with your kits to think about.” 

Gremlin’s mouth twisted wryly. “Fury expects it. Pll have 
to be there at the battle, but I won’t be fighting for 
BloodClan, either.” 

That sounds familiar, Graystripe thought. It reminded 
him of the reason he’d left RiverClan. 

“ГИ get you away to a safe place,” Cinderpelt promised. 
“But first, Gremlin—I don’t want to scare you, but I do not 
like the look of how you're carrying your kits.” 

Gremlin’s eyes widened in apprehension. “Why? What’s 
the matter?” 


“Td guess that one of your kits is going to come out 
paws first,” the medicine cat continued. “You should sleep 
on your back, and chew on chervil root—do you know what 
chervil looks like?” 

Gremlin nodded, her eyes wide and her muzzle tight with 
tension. 

“Then, if you come to ThunderClan, ГЇЇ help you with 
your kitting. It will be fine—but if you want a healthy litter, 
you absolutely can t get involved ш any battles.” 

Graystripe had a sudden memory of Silverstream, and the 
scent of her blood when she’d birthed Stormkit and 
Featherkit. His stomach clenched, and he flexed his claws 
impatiently, eager to change the subject. “Enough about 
what she can t do, Cinderpelt. Let's concentrate on what she 
can. Gremlin, can you really tell us what BloodClan is 
plotting?” 

“T told you, I can,” Gremlin mewed with an irritated 
twitch of her tail. “I don’t know all the details yet, but I will 
find them out. Fury and the rest still think I’m loyal. But Pm 
not going to stick my neck out for ThunderClan unless I 
have a promise from you that Scraps and I will be safe after 
the battle.” 

“That’s reasonable,” Graystripe agreed, with a glance at 
Cinderpelt, who nodded approval. “So when—” 

Cinderpelt, who had been sitting on the grass with her 
paws tucked under her, suddenly shot upright. “I scent 


BloodClan!” she hissed. 

Obviously, she didn’t mean Gremlin. Graystripe took a 
gulp of air and picked up a reek that brought back the 
ambush that had left him in the dog’s garden. Fury! “Hide!” 
he gasped. 

Cinderpelt swung around and dived into a clump of the 
strong-smelling Twoleg flowers, clearly hoping their scent 
would disguise hers. Graystripe dashed across the garden 
and into the shelter ofa pile of cut grass. 

Peering out, he saw that Gremlin had not moved. She sat 
on the grass beside Smudge, licked one paw, and used it to 
wash her ear. “So, Smudge, have you thought any more 
about joining BloodClan?” she meowed clearly. 

Fury appeared through a gap in the fence leading to the 
next garden. Her lone eye glared at Gremlin as she crossed 
the grass toward her. “What are you doing with this 
kittypet?” she asked. 

“Oh, I thought you’d have heard.” Gremlin turned an 
innocent green gaze on the BloodClan leader. “I’m trying to 
persuade him to join us.” 

Fury transferred the glare to Smudge. “And will he?” 

“I... er... Pm making up my mind, still” Smudge 
replied. 

He was clearly terrified, his ears flattened and his eyes 
stretched wide, but he was facing up to Fury, and he hadn’t 
fled for the safety of his den. Graystripe was reluctantly 


impressed. Maybe hes not the coward I thought he was. 

“You do that,” Fury growled. Sniffing the air 
suspiciously, she added, “I smell ThunderClan!” 

“Oh, ThunderClan cats visit me all the time,” Smudge 
responded. He gave his shoulder fur a couple of complacent 
licks. “Firestar is my friend!” 

“Huh!” Fury clearly wasn’t convinced. Her glance raked 
over the garden; then she gave an irritated shrug and 
muttered something Graystripe couldn’t catch. 

Leaning closer in an attempt to overhear, he got a 
noseful of the grass cuttings; their pungent scent gave him 
an overpowering need to sneeze. Desperate, he clamped a 
paw over his nose. IfI give myself away, we те all crow-food, 
and so is my plan! 

To his relief, Fury began heading back to the gap in the 
fence where she had appeared. But when she was halfway 
there, she glanced back over her shoulder. “Clan meeting at 
sunset,” she told Gremlin. “Be there.” With that, she 
disappeared through the fence. 

Graystripe had the sense not to move out of hiding too 
quickly. Staring at the clump of flowers that concealed 
Cinderpelt, he willed her to stay where she was. / wouldnt 
put it past Fury to come back. She knows somethings 
going on, ifonly she could catch us at it. 

A few heartbeats later, he was proved right when Fury’s 
head appeared in the gap, her suspicious gaze roving 


around the garden once more. After a moment, finding 
nothing, she disappeared again, but Graystripe still waited a 
good while before he dared to venture out from his hiding 
place, shaking bits of grass from his pelt and at last allowing 
himself his longed-for sneeze. 

“That’s one terrifying cat!” Smudge exclaimed as 
Graystripe and Cinderpelt joined him and Gremlin in the 
middle of the garden. 

“She’s certainly not my favorite,” Graystripe replied, 
padding carefully to the edge of the fence and opening his 
mouth to taste the air. The reek was gone—which meant 
Fury hadn’t lingered to eavesdrop. He strolled back to 
Smudge and Gremlin with a relieved sigh. 

“You dealt with her very well,” Cinderpelt mewed, with a 
kind glance at the trembling kittypet. 

“Thanks.” Smudge ducked his head in embarrassment. 
“But I think what I need now is a drink of milk and some 
strokes from my housefolk. Excuse me.” He waved his tail in 
farewell and bounded across the garden to disappear 
through a small opening in the Twoleg door. 

It is strange that Fury believed Smudge might consider 
joining BloodClan, Graystripe mused. He is brave—for a 
kittypet. But hes not meant for the Clans, much less battle- 
thirsty BloodClan! 

“So ... Fury has called a Clan meeting.” Gremlin passed 
her tongue around her jaws as if anticipating a tasty morsel 


of fresh-kill. “That will be where she sets out her plans to the 
rest of us. So, what about it, ThunderClan cat?” 

“I have to put it to my Clanmates,” Graystripe replied. 
“I'm only our acting leader, and if they won’t accept you, 
there’s nothing I can do about it.” 

Gremlin snorted. “That’s not any good to me.” 

“T will do my best,” Graystripe promised. “Suppose we 
meet here again at sunhigh tomorrow. I should have an 
answer for you by then.” 

“Okay,” Gremlin agreed. “But I can tell you this, 
Graystripe: If you and your Clan don’t trust me, 
ThunderClan will be shredded.” 


Graystripe stood on the top of the Highrock and gazed 
down at his Clanmates gathered beneath him. Throughout 
the night he had lain awake, worrying about how to present 
Gremlin’s offer to ThunderClan, and he still wasn’t sure if he 
had spoken the right words. 

“Апа зо... , he finished, suddenly aware of just how 
silent his Clanmates were, “I agreed to the deal Gremlin 
offered.” 

Thornclaw was the first to speak. “You can’t be 
serious!” he yowled. “You’ve made a ‘deal’ with some 
strange BloodClan cat? StarClan help us! And now we have 
to let her join our Clan?” 

Graystripe tried to interrupt. “Only after she’s proven—” 

“Of course, only if she proves herself,’ One-Eye 


meowed with a scoff. “But how much will we really know 
about her, even then? This BloodClan rogue will already be 
living among us—with her brother? What do we know 
about him, besides that he likes to fight?” 

Stay calm. Graystripe fluffed his pelt, trying not to let his 
Clanmates see how their reaction rattled him. “I believe that I 
can trust Gremlin,” he said. “And as I told you, I think she 
can provide us important information—” 

“You’ve got bees in your brain if you think she’s telling 
the truth!” Ashfur told him, his face twisted into an 
expression of mockery as he tumed his shoulder away from 
Grays tripe. 

“You would really risk the safety of your entire Clan for 
those BloodClan mange-pelts?” Thornclaw hissed, his ears 
flattened in fury. 

Graystripe could see a few of the younger warriors, like 
Cloudtail and Brambleclaw, watching him thoughtfully. Ar 
least not every cat thinks its a terrible idea, he thought as 
he addressed Thornclaw. “The Clan is at risk whether we like 
it or not,” Graystripe tried to explain. “This plan will—” 

“This plan will end with us all turned into crow-food!” 
The speaker was Brackenfur; the golden-brown tabby tom, 
usually so calmand reasonable, was standing stiff-legged at 
the base of the Highrock, eyes blazing in rage as he glared 
up at Graystripe. “I’m sorry, Graystripe—I always trusted 
you as a mentor. But you wouldn’t have asked me to keep it 


a secret if you thought it was really the right thing to do! I 
heard what Gremlin told you, and I can’t believe that you 
would trust her as far as Icould throw a fox. You just want to 
take another stray into the Clan, and in doing that, you’ll 
end up destroying us all!” 

“Yes, why should we care what happens to her, or to the 
brother she herself admits is a danger to every cat around 
him?” Brightheart demanded. She was sitting with Cloudtail 
and Ferncloud at the entrance to the nursery, and her one 
good eye was narrowed with fury. “Do we have to risk our 
Clan’s safety every time you fall in love?” 

Graystripe bristled, knowing that Brightheart was talking 
about the time he had brought his kits to live with him in 
ThunderClan. The dispute over the kits had almost led to 
war between ThunderClan and RiverClan. 

His eyes wide in frustration, Graystripe glanced down at 
Cinderpelt, who was sitting at the base of the Highrock. He 
had hoped for support from the medicine cat, but she just 
shook her head sadly, as if asking him, You didnt really 
expect this to be easy, did you? 

Of course not, he thought in response, but thats why 1 
need your help! 

“This is different,’ Graystripe retorted to Brightheart. 
“Gremlin and I are not mates. And we have no intention of 
ever being mates. She’s just a cat who really cares about her 
brother, and she is trying to do what she thinks is best for 


him. And that means bringing him to stay in ThunderClan 
after we’ve dealt with the BloodClan threat—together.” 
Letting his gaze travel across the rest of the Clan, he added, 
“If any of our kin were at risk, each one of us would do the 
same. And Gremlin has even more to lose, since she’s 
expecting kits at any moment.” 

No cat responded directly to that, and Graystripe began 
to hope that at least some of his Clanmates were starting to 
take Gremlin’s offer more seriously. When Thornclaw rose to 
his paws, looking thoughtful rather than hostile, he felt more 
hopeful still, but when the tabby warrior spoke, his words 
were completely unexpected. 

“Actually, Mousefur and I and some of the others were 
discussing this,” Thornclaw began, “before we ever heard 
about this Gremlin plan. And we have another idea.” 

Graystripe felt a flutter of uneasiness in his belly. Гт 
sure Im not going to like this. “Okay, let's hear it,” he 
meowed. 

“We think that we ought to ask the other three Clans for 
their help against BloodClan,” Thornclaw declared. 

“Yes.” Mousefur rose and came to stand beside 
Thornclaw. “If BloodClan destroys us, then the way is open 
for them to attack any of the others. It’s in the other Clans’ 
best interests to help us. Why should ThunderClan face the 
danger alone?” 

A murmur of agreement rose from the cats around the 


Highrock. Gazing down at them, Graystripe saw their eyes 
bright with interest, and relief on many faces. They re 
pleased that theres another way, instead of taking the risk 
of trusting Gremlin. But thats not what I wanted—I wanted 
them to back my plan! 

Graystripe himself had realized, when he was on his way 
to the Moonstone with Cinderpelt, that ThunderClan was 
blocking the way for BloodClan to attack the other Clans, 
just as Thornclaw had declared. Yet he could see there were 
problems with the tabby warrior’s suggestion that his 
Clanmates maybe hadn’t considered. And they wont like it 
when I point them out. 

“How would that work?” he asked. “Assuming the other 
Clans agree, what do we want them to do? We don’t know 
when BloodClan will attack, and we can’t have warriors from 
the other Clans living in our camp while we wait for the 
battle.” 

“Are you mouse-brained?” Ashfur asked, with a lash of 
his tail. “We set a watch, and once we see BloodClan 
approaching, we send three cats—the fastest runners—to 
the other three camps to bring back warriors to help.” 

Graystripe took a deep breath. He would have liked to 
leap down from the Highrock and give the gray warrior a 
good clawing around the ears, but he knew how stupid it 
would be to antagonize him further. 

“I don’t think that’s a good idea,” he responded in a mild 


tone. “We’d be deprived of three useful warriors at the 
beginning of the battle, and by the time they came back with 
reinforcements, it could all be over.” 

Ashfur hunched his shoulders, letting out an annoyed 
grunt; he wouldn’t admit that Graystripe was right, but he 
said nothing more. 

“Even if that wouldn’t work,” Thomclaw continued, 
“there must be some way to organize it... some kind of 
signal, maybe.” 

Once again Graystripe was aware of his Clan's approval 
of the plan. Cats were glancing at one another, bright-eyed, 
nodding their agreement. One or two let out encouraging 
yowls. 

“Tm sure we could work something out,” he began, and 
went on swiftly before his Clanmates began to believe he 
would accept Thornclaw’s suggestion. “But there are two 
problems that you haven’t thought of. First, if we go to the 
other Clans for help, they’ll think ThunderClan is weak. 
That’s the last thing we want.” 

“No,” Mousefur objected, with a sharp edge to her tone. 
“The last thing we want is to be ripped apart by BloodClan.” 

True enough, Graystripe thought, but he ignored 
Mousefur’s interruption as he continued. “The second 
problem is that we can’t ask for help, or fight side by side 
with warriors from other Clans, without letting them know 
that Firestar isn’t here.” 


There was a moment’s silence, as the Clan cats 
considered that. Finally, Cloudtail spoke. “Would that be so 
bad?” 

“һе has gone to be a kittypet,” Ashfur meowed, “then 
he’s not coming back. How much longer can we go on 
keeping it a secret?” 

“Firestar has not gone to be a kittypet,” Graystripe 
retorted, feeling his pelt begin to bristle with a mixture of 
anger and frustration. “I wish you could get that idea out of 
your heads once and for all.” 

“But how can we?” It was Dustpelt who spoke, rising to 
his paws from where he sat beside Ferncloud, outside the 
nursery. “No cat will tell us where Firestar has gone, except 
that he’s on a mission for StarClan. What are we supposed 
to think?” “You’re supposed to think that he’s on a mission 
for StarClan,” Graystripe pointed out. “Because he is. And 
that’s the one thing that Firestar made clear to me and 
Cinderpelt before he left. No cat must know where his 
mission is taking him, and I decided it would be easier if the 
other Clans didn’t even know that he’s gone.” He puffed out 
a gusty sigh. “We’ve been through all this before. I know 
it’s frustrating, but that’s the way it is.” 

Dustpelt didn’t go on arguing, simply shook his head 
and sat down again beside his mate. 

“So you won’t consider our plan?” Thornclaw asked; he 
sounded more disappointed than angry. 


“T wish I could,” Graystripe responded. “It’s not a bad 
plan, if we could work out the details. But it would mean 
telling the other Clans that we’ve been lying to them, and do 
you think they would want to help us after that?” 

“Then maybe you shouldn’t have lied to them,” 
Mousefur pointed out sharply. 

“Maybe I shouldn’t have,” Graystripe admitted. “But 
that prey is eaten now. And І still believe that we need to 
show the other Clans that ThunderClan is strong, and that 
means dealing with BloodClan without their help.” 

He was aware of grumbling among the Clan, of twitching 
tails and flattened ears, but this time no cat spoke up to 
challenge him. He glanced down at Cinderpelt beside the 
Highrock; she gave hima vigorous nod. “Go on. Get back to 
Gremlin.” 

“As Isee it,” Graystripe meowed, “we have two choices. 
Continue as we are, keeping watch for BloodClan and 
dealing with them when they finally attack. Or trusting 
Gremlin and using the information she’ll give us.” He 
paused, then added, “Talk about it among yourselves. See 
what you think.” 

He waited as the crowd of cats broke up into smaller 
groups, beginning to argue about what they had just heard. 
From the top of the rock, he caught scraps of their 
discussion. 

“, . . maybe Graystripe has a point,” Ferncloud was 


saying. Brambleclaw nodded in agreement. 

“But you can’t ever trust a BloodClan cat!” Dustpelt 
insisted. “That’s just inviting trouble!” 

“What’s going to happen to our kits?” Brightheart 
asked. 

Eventually, Dustpelt broke away from the rest of his 
group and strode up to the Highrock. “Graystripe, tell us, 
what exactly is your plan? If we decide to trust Gremlin, what 
will happen?” 

Graystripe gazed down at the brown tabby tom, faintly 
surprised that he should be the first cat to ask a reasonable 
question. He raised his tail for silence, and waited until the 
rest of the muttered conversations in the clearing died down. 

“After Brackenfur overheard me speaking with Gremlin in 
the forest, I sent a message to Gremlin in the Twolegplace,” 
he replied, “and I took Cinderpelt to meet her, not far from 
where you and I and Brambleclaw fought the BloodClan 
cats. We decided that Gremlin would go on pretending that 
she’s loyal to BloodClan, so she can pass information to us. 
And in fact, Fury showed up during this very conversation, 
and told us that there would be a BloodClan meeting 
tonight.” He looked from cat to cat. “Gremlin believed that 
Fury would lay out her plans at that meeting. She’s meant to 
report back to us, so we can plan our attack.” 

“And she’ll fight on our side?” Brambleclaw asked. 

Graystripe shook his head. “No, she—” 





“Why does that not surprise me?” Brackenfur growled. 

“Gremlin has to think of the safety of her kits,” 
Graystripe continued, with a glare at the golden-brown 
tabby tom, “so she will be staying out of the way once the 
battle starts.” 

“And ГІ go to be with her” Cinderpelt added, 
scrambling onto the Highrock beside Graystripe so she 
could survey the Clan and make herself heard more easily. “I 
could tell as soon as I set eyes on her that her kitting won’t 
be easy. From the way her belly is sticking out, I think at 
least one of her kits will come paws first.” 

For the first time, Graystripe heard some murmurs of 
sympathy arising from his Clanmates. He saw Ferncloud and 
Brightheart exchange a glance; the worst of Brightheart’s 
hostility seemed to fade. Graystripe hoped that some cats in 
his Clan were shifting from the idea of Gremlin as an evil 
BloodClan spy and instead seeing her as a queen in trouble. 

“I told her to sleep on her back and chew chervil root,” 
Cinderpelt went on. “That might help move her kits into a 
more natural position for the birth.” 

Graystripe gave Cinderpelt a warm glance. “Thank you 
for helping her,” he mewed, “and for being so accepting.” 

“Hey, not so fast,” Cinderpelt responded, alarm in her 
blue eyes. “It’s not my place to decide if she can become a 
member of ThunderClan. But if she can’t, Pm going to 
suggest that she should find a Twoleg to live with.” 


“A Twoleg?” Speckletail, sitting with the other elders 
beside their fallen tree, sounded shocked down to the tips of 
her claws. “You’d send her off to be a kittypet?” 

Cinderpelt shrugged. “I wouldn’t suggest that to any of 
our cats,” she explained. “But it might be Gremlin’s best 
option, if she can’t come here. She’s going to need all the 
help she can get with her kitting, and BloodClan cats don’t 
believe in helping one another If Gremlin stays with 
BloodClan and goes into labor, she will die, and so will her 
kits. And even if her kits survive, she won’t be there to raise 
them in a way that a parent should....” 

The medicine cat’s plain speaking seemed to have 
influenced her Clanmates. He saw Speckletail shoot Frostfur 
a thoughtful look, and they drew close and begin speaking 
quietly. 

“I would hate to think... ,” he heard Speckletail murmur. 

Meanwhile, Mousefur and Goldenflower drew closer to 
the Highrock, mewing in questioning tones. 

“Do you really believe... ?” Mousefur began. 

He knew that there was some convincing still to be done, 
but they were actually listening now. They were really 
considering his plan. 

This is the time for me to press home my advantage, he 
thought, opening his jaws to continue. I’m sure I can 
convince them now! 

Cinderpelt shifted her paws and glanced over at 


Graystripe. “Maybe StarClan was right,” she suggested 
wryly. “You can work this out on your own.” 

Graystripe flicked his ear in amusement. “Well, I didn’t 
have much choice. Maybe now’s my chance to make my 
final plea?” 

Cinderpelt shook her head gently, resting her tail on his 
shoulder. “Don’t say anything more,” she murmured into his 
ear. “You’ve done all you can. Now let them work it out for 
themselves.” 

Finally, it was Dustpelt who addressed Graystripe again. 
“We've had an idea,” he began, angling his ears toward 
Brambleclaw, Ferncloud, and Brightheart, who stood around 
him. “A compromise.” 

“Okay, what is it?” Graystripe meowed. 

“Once the battle with BloodClan is over,’ Dustpelt 
continued, “we think we should allow Gremlin and her 
brother to come live with us, but only—” 

“Only until what?” Ashfur yowled. “Until they claw us 
up in our sleep and take us over from the—” 

A low growl grew in Dustpelt’s throat until finally it was 
loud enough for Ashfur to notice. He stopped abruptly. 

“As Iwas saying,” Dustpelt went on, “only until Firestar 
comes back. He’ll have the final decision about whether 
they’re allowed to stay or not.” 

Approving murmurs rose from the crowd of cats; even 
Brackenfur, who had been so hostile toward Graystripe’s 


plan from the very beginning, was looking thoughtful. Only 
Ashfur still scowled. 

“She'll probably have her kits while Firestar is still 
away,” Cinderpelt pointed out approvingly. “So whatever he 
decides, she’ll still have the protection of the Clan when she 
needs it most.” 

“We’d better keep a sharp eye on that brother of hers,” 
Ashfur called out. “If he sets one claw out of line, ГІЇ chase 
him off our territory myself.” 

Graystripe let out a snort of amusement. “Don’t worry; 
once he’s here, he’ll be an apprentice, and he’ll have so 
many duties to keep him busy, he won’t have time to start 
anything. Would you like to be his mentor, Ashfur?” 

The gray warrior looked down at his paws; obviously, 
Graystripe’s suggestion was not a welcome one. 

“Okay,” Graystripe went on, satisfied that there would be 
no further interruptions. “This is the plan. Provided Gremlin 
does what she has promised to do, and helps us in the battle 
with BloodClan, we allow her and her brother to live in the 
Clan until Firestar returns. Does any Clanmate object?” 

No cat spoke. 

Cinderpelt leaned closer to Graystripe and mewed softly 
into his ear. “Off you go—it’s almost sunhigh, so run to the 
Twolegplace and tell Gremlin what we’ve decided, before the 
Clan changes its mind.” 

Graystripe could see the wisdom of that; he gave the 


medicine cat a brisk nod. “mon it.” 

He leaped down from the Highrock, slid through the 
crowd of his Clanmates, and plunged into the gorse tunnel. 
His belly fur brushed the grass and his tail flowed out 
behind himas he raced through the forest. After the struggle 
of the Clan meeting, his optimism was rising like the sun in 
newleaf. 

This just might work out for every cat. 


CHAPTER 21 


Se 


— Now — 


Graystripe lay with his eyes squeezed tight shut, his heart 
hammering in his chest as he waited for StarClan to unleash 
more of its wrath. At last, when nothing more happened, he 
dared to open his eyes again, but all he could see were 
mingled colors floating in front of him. He couldn’t hear 
anything, either; he felt as though his ears were stuffed full 
ofthistle-fluff. 

Have I gone deafand blind? he wondered, fighting back 
panic. 

Gradually his vision cleared, the walls of the cavern took 
shape around him, and the sounds of the storm seeped back 
into his ears. Graystripe looked back toward the Moonstone 
and saw...nothing. 

Horror clutched at his chest as he blinked, drawing 
closer, only to confirm... the Moonstone had disappeared. 
A heap of shattered fragments, giving off a faint, eerie glow, 
lay where it had been. 

Lightning must have struck it! Graystripe stared 
disbelievingly at the broken shards. His mouth was dry, and 
every hair on his pelt was bristling. Not only did I not 
succeed in reaching StarClan—I destroyed the Moonstone! 


Was that StarClan $ answer... or just a coincidence? 

Graystripe realized that it didn’t matter; he only knew 
that he had to get out of this place. StarClan obviously 
wasn’t going to speak to him now. He stumbled to his paws, 
his legs shaking with terror, and flung himself across the 
cavern and up the tunnel as fast as he could. Only after he 
burst into the open, still trembling and panting, did he turn 
back and look down the passage toward the cave of the 
shattered Moonstone. 

Was that a sign? he asked himself again. Did it mean 
that Firestar is angry with me? He found it hard to believe 
that his old friend would unleash such fury on him, even for 
daring to enter a sacred place when he’d never been a leader 
or a medicine cat. Perhaps I’m just imagining things— 
imagining that the lightning and thunder is something 
more meaningful than an ordinary storm. But the more he 
thought about that option, the worse he felt. Which is worse, 
that StarClan still exists but is angry at me... or that 
StarClan is gone, or no longer cares at all? His throat grew 
tight as he considered the possibilities. What if the young 
ThunderClan warriors were right? What if the message is 
that I’m an old fool who needs to accept that StarClan is 
gone? 

Graystripe stood, panting, for a few moments, letting the 
thought sink in. As his heart slowed back to normal, 
Graystripe realized that the thunder was growling farther off 


in the distance, and the rain had almost stopped. The storm 
was passing. Above his head, the clouds were clearing 
away, leaving ragged gaps where the moon and stars could 
shine through, and on the horizon the outline of the hills 
told him that dawn was already beginning to break. His 
beating heart had slowed, too, and he could breathe 
normally. Giving his pelt a shake, he set off down the path to 
find Fang and the others. 

His limbs felt heavy, as ifhe were trying to wade through 
deep water. He had fastened all his hopes on receiving an 
answer from StarClan at the Moonstone, and now that hope 
was gone. What now? He knew he’d promised to help Fang, 
and he would fulfill that promise. But what about 
ThunderClan? What about his journey? 

He’d been so sure that Firestar would help him figure 
everything out. 

When he reached the overhanging rock, he saw 
Monkeystar and Clawwhistle curled up together asleep, 
pressed as close as they could to the inner wall. Fang was 
sitting upright, his tail wrapped around his paws and his 
ears pricked for the first sign of trouble. He sprang up as 
soon as he saw Graystripe. 

“What happened?” he asked. 

Graystripe didn’t know how to reply. How could he even 
describe to Fang what he had seen in the depths of the 
earth? Where would he begin? His spirit felt broken. He had 


failed in his quest to get answers from Firestar, or the 
Moonstone. He asked himself if Stoneteller had been wrong; 
perhaps Graystripe had no more to offer his Clan. 

I’m no kind of savior. No leader. Not even a deputy, not 
anymore. 

“It was ... terrifying,” he began, describing how he had 
ventured down the tunnel and asked his question, only for 
the Moonstone to explode in a flash of dazzling light. 
Monkeystar and Clawwhistle woke up at the sound of his 
voice and listened with wide, astonished eyes. 

“Tt sounds like you made contact with something, ” Fang 
meowed when Graystripe had finished telling his story. 

“Pm not sure,” Graystripe said evenly, not wanting to 
share his internal doubts with this kittypet. “Anyway, now 
I’ve no idea what to do next. I haven’t forgotten that I 
promised to help you,” he added with a nod to Fang. “But 
when Im done, І... I don’t know how Pm going to help my 
Clan.” 

Monkeystar spoke up, her claws flexing with excitement. 
“Гуе got an idea!” 

“What?” Graystripe asked, doubtful that a kittypet could 
have anything to offer him in his confusion. 

“We know a wise cat who might have some answers,” 
the tortoiseshell replied. “He lives on a farm not far from 
here, and he loves to tell long stories.” 

“Yeah,” Clawwhistle added. “He knows about the 


watriors, too.” 

Graystripe felt a warmth spreading beneath his pelt. A 
wise cat who loves to tell long stories and knows the 
warriors... ? “Are you talking about Barley?” he asked. 

Monkeystar and Clawwhistle exchanged a glance. “Yes, 
that’s his name,” Monkeystar mewed. “How did you know?” 

“He’s is an old friend of mine—a very old friend, in fact.” 
Graystripe felt hope returning with every heartbeat. What a 
comfort it would be to see his old friend Barley, especially 
now. Even if Barley couldn’t help him with his present 
difficulties, it would be good to catch up with him, after so 
many seasons. 

“Take me to himright away,” he ordered. 

Monkeystar took the lead, with Clawwhistle beside her, 
heading away from Mothermouth. Graystripe felt a renewed 
stiring of amusement at the sight of the young cats padding 
importantly down the path; now and again Monkeystar gave 
a little leap of excitement, as if, after the struggles of the 
night and the storm, she had recovered her sense of 
adventure. 

At first, Fang brought up the rear, then quickened his 
pace to walk beside Graystripe. “There’s something I have to 
know,” he whispered, looking up at Graystripe with hope 
sparkling in his eyes. 

“Okay,” Graystripe meowed, mystified. “Spit it out.” 

Fang still hesitated, as if he was afraid to speak. Finally 


he asked, “Graystripe, are уои... are you my father?” 

Graystripe halted, stumbling over his own paws in his 
astonishment. “What?” 

“My mother didn’t talk much about my father,” Fang 
explained. “When I asked questions, she usually changed 
the subject. I think she hoped I wouldn’t notice.” 

“As if you can stop a kit from being curious!” Graystripe 
murmured. 

“But she always spoke so fondly of you,” Fang 
continued. “I think she respected you more than any cat. It 
made me wonder if you had been more than a friend to her. 
And then, when she told me to seek you out if I ever needed 
help, I thought maybe...” 

Graystripe felt a pang of regret biting into his chest. He 
had grown to like Fang in the short time he had known him, 
and he hated to put out the spark of hope he could see 
growing in the gray tom’s eyes. 

“Fang, I’d be proud to call you my son,” he began, “but 
your mother and I were never mates. Гт пої your father.” 

Fang bowed his head, his tail drooping. Graystripe was 
truly sorry for the skinny tom; he could see disappointment 
washing over him like a surge of brown water in the leaf-fall 
floods. The loner seemed so heartbroken that, for a moment, 
Graystripe wondered if he should have lied. What harm 
would it have done if I'd said yes? At least one ofus would 
have found the answer that we were searching for. 


But Graystripe knew in his heart that it was always better 
to tell the truth. Somehow, somewhere, we would both have 
paid the price for that lie. 

“Thank you for being honest with me,” Fang meowed. 
“After we visit Barley, will you come with me to the den to 
help my friends?” 

“Of course.” Graystripe nodded. “Anything for Gremlin’s 

son.” 
He set off again, following the WarriorClan cats, who by 
now had drawn a long way ahead. Fang’s ears were pricked 
and alert, but his paw steps were slow, dragging on the 
rough stone of the path. 

Graystripe padded beside him, feeling the younger cat’s 
despondency as if it were his own. / wish I were his father, 
but I cant be. All I can do is hope that one day he will find 
his real father, just as he found me. 


The storm was over, the clouds had cleared away, and 
the sky was flooded by the pale light of dawn by the time 
Graystripe and the others reached Barley’s barn. Graystripe 
paused outside, glancing around and parting his jaws to 
taste the air. The scents were familiar, especially mice and the 
dried grass that was stored there—and, more distant, the 
Twolegs and a dog. But the only scent that Graystripe cared 
about just then was that ofhis old friend Barley. 

The weather-beaten barn doors looked just the same as 
when Graystripe had first visited as an apprentice. There 


was still a gap at the bottom, where the two WarriorClan 
kittypets were already vanishing inside. 

Graystripe followed, with Fang hard on his paws. It took 
a moment for his eyes to adjust to the dim light seeping 
through the holes in the roof and a few small windows high 
up in the walls. When he could see clearly, he spotted Barley 
curled up in a comer between the barn doors and a heap of 
dried grass; he was deeply asleep, his breath riffling a stalk 
of hay that was clinging to his muzzle. 

Monkeystar and Clawwhistle were crouching beside him, 
their eyes shining with glee, their tail-tips twitching 
impatiently. Monkeystar beckoned to Graystripe with her 
tail. “Come on!” she whispered. “Seeing you is going to be 
such a great surprise for him.” 

Graystripe didn’t need telling twice. Excitement surged 
up inside him as he bounded across the barn and stooped 
over Barley, gently touching his nose to the old tom’s ear. 

“Wake up, Barley,” he whispered. “It’s Graystripe. Гуе 
come to visit you.” 

Barley blinked awake and raised his head, fixing bleary 
blue eyes on Graystripe. At first his stare was blank; then, 
gradually, a puzzled expression crept over his face. “You 
look like Graystripe.” His voice was a hoarse whisper. “But 
you can’t be.” 

“I am Graystripe,” the gray warrior responded, licking 
Barley’s ear and giving his neck an affectionate nuzzle. “It’s 


so good to see you,” he added, wondering why his old 
friend didn’t get up to greet him. 

Barley’s expression cleared. “It is you, Graystripe!” 

“He’s super old,” Clawwhistle announced, answering 
Graystripe’s thought. “That’s why we come around to check 
on him. He tells us stories, and we keep him entertained by 
telling him all about our fierce warrior adventures, and make 
sure he’s safe. Isn’t that right, Barley?” 

The entire time he was speaking, Clawwhistle was 
hopping around with excitement, and now he gave a massive 
leap into the middle of one of the piles of dried grass that 
covered the floor of the barn. 

Barley exchanged an amused glance with Graystripe, 
who guessed that the old tom could probably do without 
quite so many visits fromthe energetic young cats. 

“Oh, yes,” Barley mewed politely. “What would I do 
without the members of WarriorClan watching over me?” 

Monkeystar solemnly nodded her head. “You’ll never 
have to find out,” she promised. Then she turned away with 
an exasperated sigh. “Clawwhistle, get out of there!” 

She padded over to help Clawwhistle extract himself from 
the pile of grass. The orange tomemerged, spitting out grass 
seed, with his fluffy pelt almost completely covered in stray 
stems. 

“Barley, this is Fang.” Graystripe introduced the gray 
tom, who had stood quietly waiting until now. 


While the two toms greeted each other, he took a hard 
look at his longtime friend. Though most cats probably 
looked “super old” to Clawwhistle, the young kittypet 
wasn’t wrong about Barley. The loner’s once-sharp blue 
eyes seemed clouded, and his black-and-white pelt was run 
through with gray. But his broad shoulders and large paws 
still hinted at the tough cat Graystripe remembered. 

“Its not as bad as it looks,” Barley meowed, clearly 
aware of Graystripe’s scrutiny. He rose to his paws and 
winced as he arched his back in a long stretch. “My joints 
don’t work as well as they used to, and my ear hurts 
sometimes. My sight has weakened, too, so J hardly ever 
leave the barn. But I can still get around, with a bit of help.” 
He settled himself back into the hay with a contented sigh. 

Graystripe tried to hide how sad Barley’s words made 
him feel. “Is that why you’re still here, so long after the last 
time Isaw you?” he asked. 

“Well, it is my home,” Barley replied. “And I’m lucky. 
The Twolegs who live here are kind and take care of me. In 
fact, that’ll be them now.” 

A scraping sound made Graystripe whirl to see the barn 
door beginning to open, pushed from the outside. Warm 
daylight slanted in, and he realized that the sun had risen 
while they’d been talking. Beckoning with his tail for Fang to 
follow him, he ducked quickly into the shadows behind the 
door, while Monkeystar and Clawwhistle, who had been 


chasing each other around the piles of grass, flattened 
themselves into one with an alarmed squeak and peered 
between the grass stalks with wide, curious eyes. 

A female Twoleg entered the barn carrying a bowl; as 
she put it down beside Barley, Graystripe could see that it 
was full of water. Then she took out some small object from 
her pelt, stooped down beside Barley, and tilted his head to 
one side. Graystripe stiffened at the thought of being so 
close to a Twoleg, but Barley seemed undismayed and kept 
still as she dropped some kind of liquid into his ear. Then 
she ruffled Barley’s fur and went out again, closing the door 
behind her. 

“What was that she put in your ear?” Fang asked as he 
and Graystripe emerged from their hiding place. 

“Гт пої sure, but I think it’s some kind of Twoleg herb,” 
Barley told him. “After she puts those drops in, my ear 
doesn’t hurt so much.” 

All this while Graystripe had been aware of the 
overwhelming scent of mice in the barn, and the increasingly 
hollow place inside him. It seemed a long time since they’d 
shared that rabbit on the way up to Highstones. 

“Barley, may we hunt?” he asked. 

“Of course.” Barley waved his tail. “Help yourselves. 
There’s plenty. But I warn you, the mice in here seem to be 
much faster lately. Not so easy to catch.” 

I wonder why, Graystripe thought, with a sympathetic 


glance at the old tom. “We’ll do our best. Would you like 
some prey too, Barley?” 

His friend swiped his tongue around his jaws. “I won’t 
say no. Twoleg food is okay, but it doesn’t fill you up like a 
good, fat mouse.” 

Graystripe turned to where the two WarriorClan kittypets 
were once more chasing each other around the barn. “Hey, 
you two!” he called. “Stop that! You learned some hunting 
moves yesterday. Want to put them into practice?” 

The two cats skidded to a halt, their eyes gleaming 
excitedly. “Would a warrior say no? Of course we would!” 
Monkeystar meowed, bouncing on her paws. 

“Then settle down and be quiet. You’ll scare all the prey 
from here to Highstones, racketing around like that.” 

The two kittypets were immediately still, their faces 
serious, though their whiskers still quivered eagerly. 

“Right,” Graystripe began. “Start by showing me your 
hunter’s crouch.” He walked around the two of them, 
carefully examining their position. Its just like having 
apprentices. Somehow, it makes me feel young again. “Very 
good, Clawwhistle. Monkeystar, draw your hind legs in a bit 
more. That’s right. Now let’s find some prey.” 

“But the bam is full of prey,” Clawwhistle pointed out. 
“We don’t even have to search. Just listen!” 

It wasn’t difficult for Graystripe to hear the continual 
squeaking and rustling in the piles of dried grass, or to pick 


up the overwhelming smell of mouse. “That’s true,” he told 
Clawwhistle, “but you still have to find your mouse. 
Pinpoint one and stalk it, and ignore all the others until you 
make your catch.” 

He stood back and watched the two young cats as they 
tasted the air and then padded cautiously up to the nearest 
pile of grass, approaching it from opposite sides. He could 
see that Monkeystar had focused on a mouse almost at 
once; she dropped into the hunter’s crouch and crept up, 
paw step by delicate paw step, until at last she pounced. 

But as she made her leap, the mouse burrowed frantically 
through the grass and popped out on the other side of the 
pile, right under Clawwhistle’s nose. Instinctively he 
slammed a paw down on it. 

“Hey! I got one!” he yowled triumphantly. 

Monkeystar’s fur bristled with indignation. “That was 
mine!” 

“It's okay,” Graystripe meowed, stepping forward before 
the two kittypets could start clawing at each other. “Hunting 
as a teamis a very advanced technique. Warriors do it all the 
time. You both caught that mouse. Why don’t you take it to 
Barley,” he suggested. “He’ll enjoy it all the more if he 
knows you caught it especially for him.” 

Monkeystar and Clawwhistle glanced at each other. 
“Okay,” Monkeystar agreed. “But / get to carry it.” 

As she grabbed up the mouse, Graystripe meowed, 


“Wait! You should th—” 

He stopped himself. 

“What?” Monkeystar asked, dropping the mouse in 
confusion. 

You should thank StarClan, Graystripe thought. The 
habit was so ingrained in him, he’d meant to teach it to the 
WarriorClan “leader” But now the thought of StarClan 
brought him back to that terrifying moment when lightning 
had struck the Moonstone, and the hopeless feeling he’d 
had leaving Mothermouth. Either StarClan was angry 
enough to destroy the Moonstone, he mused now, or it was 
only lightning, and StarClan didnt answer my call at all. 
Either way, thanking StarClan for prey isnt going to 
change anything. 

“Never mind,” he told Monkeystar. “Now take it to 
Barley.” 

Without hesitating, she picked up the mouse and darted 
over to Barley. 

A deep melancholy settled over Graystripe as he thought 
about what he’d just done. WarriorClan wants me to teach 
them the ways of true warriors, and I’m not teaching them 
to honor StarClan? But what made his chest ache was that 
he knew it was the right decision. Perhaps Flipclaw had been 
right when he’d argued with the other warriors—maybe 
StarClan would never return. And maybe the Clans had to 
find a way to survive without them. 


But Graystripe found it very hard to picture a place for 
himself inside such a Clan. 

The two young cats skittering off across the barn floor 
shook him from his somber thoughts. “Hey, Barley, look 
what we’ve got for you!” Monkeystar yowled. 

Graystripe watched, amused and suddenly more hopeful 
to see their enthusiasm. Then he turned to look for Fang. 
The gray tom had been hunting quietly while Graystripe had 
been training his “apprentices,” and by now he had three or 
four mice piled up at his paws. 

“That’s great!” Graystripe meowed. “You’re a good 
hunter.” 

Fang puffed out his chest with pride at the older cat’s 
praise. “It’s easy in here,” he murmured. “I still need more 
practice hunting outside.” 

Graystripe felt that he couldn’t eat until he had made 
some contribution. “One more and we’re done,” he decided, 
and stalked among the heaps of grass until he spotted a 
mouse and caught it with a massive leap. 

The five cats settled down to feast on their prey, 
Monkeystar and Clawwhistle exclaiming about how good 
mouse tasted. 

“The others will be so sorry they didn’t come with us,” 
Clawwhistle declared between gulps. “Just think what 
they’re missing!” 

“This is almost like old times,” Graystripe meowed to 


Barley, “when we used to visit you on our journeys to the 
Moonstone.” 

Barley nodded, though his eyes were sorrowful. “Yes— 
but there’s one other cat who should be here.” 

Graystripe didn’t need to ask him what he meant. “The 
SkyClan cats told me Ravenpaw visited them when they 
were still in their gorge, and he died there,” he murmured, 
thinking sadly of the nervous young apprentice who had 
found refuge with Barley from the murderous intentions of 
the first Tigerstar. He had never become a warrior, but he had 
grown into a cat that any Clan would have been proud to 
claim. “You must miss him.” 

“Every day, every heartbeat,” Barley responded. “But 
it’s easier now. I know my time is near, and whatever path 
Ravenpaw’s spirit walks, soon I will walk beside him.” 

Graystripe took in a quick breath. / hope you will, 
Barley. I hope you will, he thought. He stretched out his tail 
to touch Barley on the shoulder. For a moment, he could not 
speak. Finally, it was Barley who broke the silence between 
them. 

“Graystripe, you haven’t told me what brings you here, 
on such a long journey, and without any Clanmates,” he 
meowed. “Are you on some sort of scouting mission? Surely 
ThunderClan can’t be thinking of moving back here.” 

At first, Graystripe hardly knew how to reply. It would 
take the rest of the day to describe to Barley the chaos the 


intruder had brought to the Clans, and how no cat knew how 
to bring back their connection to StarClan. 

“Things are bad beside the lake,” he began at last. “It 
seems as though StarClan has abandoned us. I thought I 
might help my Clan by traveling to the Moonstone to see if I 
could make contact there.” 

“And did you?” Barley asked. 

“I tried, but... Barley, it was terrifying! Lightning struck 
the Moonstone, and it shattered into pieces. StarClan never 
spoke to me in words, but I wonder if that was a sign from 
them.” 

Barley looked puzzled. “Гуе never pretended to 
understand StarClan,” he meowed. “If it was a sign, do you 
know what it might mean?” 

Graystripe shook his head. “That they’re angry. That 
they’re not interested in helping. Or worse, it was only 
lightning, and they’re not listening at all. When I think of the 
future, I’m just bewildered. You’re so wise, Barley—do you 
know what I should do?” 

“Wise? Me?” Barley gave a snort of amusement. “I’m 
about as wise as a kit before its eyes open. But I suppose I 
do know one thing. From what I’ve heard, signs from 
StarClan make more sense after you’ve had time to sleep on 
them. You’ll likely know what to do once you’ve had a good 
rest.” 

“You’re right.” Graystripe realized that every cat was 


exhausted after the long trek to Highstones and the night 
spent out in the storm. He glanced across the barn at the 
two kittypets and saw they were struggling to stay awake, 
their jaws extended in massive yawns. “Come on, you two,” 
he continued. “Time to sleep. More adventures later.” 

Monkeystar and Clawwhistle were too weary even to 
protest. They made nests for themselves in the dried grass 
and were asleep as soon as they curled up, their pelts 
brushing and their tails wrapped over their noses. 

Graystripe was finding it hard to keep his eyes open, and 
Fang was also drooping. But before they too made nests 
amid the grass, Fang turned to Barley. 

“Did you know my mother, Gremlin?” he asked. 

Barley’s eyes widened, and he regarded the gray tom 
with new respect. “You’re Gremlin’s kit?” he asked. 

Fang nodded. 

“Yes, I knew Gremlin,” Barley mewed softly. “She was a 
wonderful cat. She was part ofa harsh, violent Clan, but she 
had a good heart, and she loved her brother very much. And 
more than anything else, she loved her kits.” 

Fang looked briefly more cheerful to hear Barley’s praise 
of his mother. But a heartbeat later, sadness crept over his 
face again. The sight made Graystripe even more determined 
to help him, although he wondered what he could possibly 
do, when StarClan seemed so remote, so distant. So 
uncaring. 


As Graystripe curled up among the piles of grass, the 
thoughts still buzzed around in his mind like a whole hive of 
bees. Even with a full belly, and in the warm, sweet-smelling 
barn, it was a long time before he could sleep. 


CHAPTER 22 


— Then — 


Treally hope this isnt a trap. 

Graystripe crouched underneath a bush at the edge of 
Smudge’s garden, his nose wrinkling at the mingled scents 
of strange flowers and Twolegs, and the distant tang of dog. 
Even though the den was on the outskirts of the 
Twolegplace, he felt uneasy, every muscle in his body telling 
himto flee back into the safety of the forest. 

But it isnt safe anymore, he told himself. Its crawling 
with those BloodClan mange-pelts. 

This time, there was no sign of Smudge in the garden. 
Graystripe guessed that the black-and-white kittypet would 
be keeping close to his Twolegs until the whole BloodClan 
conflict was over. Even his scent had faded. 

Digging his claws into the ground, Graystripe forced 
himself to wait. This was the place where Gremlin had 
promised to meet him, to hear his decision. Yet sunhigh had 
come, and so far there was no sign of the BloodClan queen. 

Suppose this is a trap? Suppose BloodClan means to 
kill me here, far away from any help? I know I'm not 
ThunderClans real leader, but it would still be weaker 
without me. 


He couldn’t believe how hard his choices were, forced 
upon him by BloodClan’s return. And there was now 
nothing that he could do except forge ahead in the best way 
he could manage. Being a leader meant making hard choices 
every day. Graystripe felt more keenly than ever before how 
complicated Firestar’s life must be. 

I cant imagine how any cat could want to lead their 
Clan. 

He jumped, startled, at the sound of something banging 
inside the Twoleg den, and peered out through the leaves. 
He knew there were Twoleg kits living there, because he had 
heard their high-pitched caterwauling before, and now he 
was afraid that they would come running out into the garden 
and find where he was hidden. But the door of the den 
stayed closed. 

Then Graystripe heard a rustling in the bushes behind 
him. Turning, he spotted Gremlin pushing her way through 
the branches. She puffed out her a breath as she flopped 
down next to him and lay on her side to rest her pregnant 
belly. Graystripe thought that she must be very near to 
kitting; she seemed to have grown even since he’d last seen 
her the day before. 

“Well?” Gremlin asked. “Have you made your decision? 
Will ThunderClan help me?” 

“Yes, we will,” Graystripe replied. “But on one condition. 
I’mnot the real leader of ThunderClan. Firestar is, and I can’t 


promise you and Scraps a permanent place in the Clan 
without his knowledge. When he returns, which will be 
soon”—I hope thats true, Graystripe thought—“he will 
have the final say on whether you and your brother can be 
ThunderClan cats. But in the meantime, you’re free to live 
among us, and of course Cinderpelt will help with your 
kitting.” 

Gremlin blinked thoughtfully as she considered that, and 
Graystripe waited tensely for her reaction. If his offer wasn’t 
good enough, then he and his Clanmates would have to face 
BloodClan without whatever help Gremlin could give them. 

“Pd really hoped that we would be accepted 
permanently into the Clan,” Gremlin responded at last. “That 
way, Scraps and I wouldn’t have to always be looking over 
our shoulders. If Firestar kicks us out, after Гуе betrayed 
BloodClan, we could be in a lot of danger. Fury wouldn’t rest 
until she’d taken her revenge.” 

“I know. And I’m sorry—but I can’t speak for Firestar,” 
Graystripe pointed out. Though it certainly feels like 
everyone wants me to! “I know what kind of cat Firestar is, 
though, and I can’t imagine him putting any cat who helped 
ThunderClan in danger.” Graystripe was being sincere, but 
he knew as he said it that while many cats—including 
Cinderpelt and, yes, Firestar—would feel this way, he knew 
that others within the Clan might balk at the idea of helping a 
former BloodClan cat. Even Brackenfur couldn’t seem to 


wrap his mind around Gremlin’s possible worthiness. For 
some cats, Graystripe mused, only ThunderClan cats can 
ever be considered trustworthy. He only hoped that Firestar 
would see things his way, and that together they could 
convince the objectors. 

Gremlin paused, deep thought in her eyes. Graystripe felt 
his belly cramp as he was forced to wonder, once again, 
whether his Clan was strong enough to defeat BloodClan 
without her help. 

Finally, to his relief, Gremlin nodded. “That sounds fair,” 
she meowed. “And Scraps and I will do whatever it takes to 
prove ourselves good ThunderClan cats.” 

“Warriors,” Graystripe corrected. “We call ourselves 
warriors.” 

Light kindled in the depths of Gremlin’s beautiful green 
eyes. “I like the sound of that,” she purred, “and I think 
Scraps will, too.” 

“Okay, then,” Graystripe continued. Now, lets get to the 
reason we 're here. “What can you tell me about BloodClan’s 
attack?” 

Please, StarClan, let it be something we can use, he 
added silently. Gremlin had promised to give him 
information, but he worried that advance knowledge could 
only do so much—ThunderClan might still end up being 
overwhelmed by BloodClan when the time came to face them 
in battle. And he couldn’t banish the suspicion, insidious as 


a worm gnawing his belly, that Gremlin was a loyal 
BloodClan cat after all. He’d argued for her in front of his 
Clanmates, but, he reflected uneasily, they could be right: 
She could be trying to trick him. 

“Listen.” Gremlin leaned in closer to him. “BloodClan will 
attack in two sunrises, when the sun clears the top of the 
trees. They—” 

“Not at night, or at dawn?” Graystripe interrupted. 
“That’s what I would do.” 

“And you would lose the battle, fur-for-brains !” Gremlin 
growled. “No, BloodClan will wait until your patrols have 
gone out and the camp is mostly empty except for kits and 
elders. Then they’ll be able to take the camp and pick off the 
rest of your warriors when they’re scattered through the 
forest with nowhere to retreat.” 

“Okay, then we just won’t send any—” Graystripe broke 
off as he saw the flaw in that plan. 

“If you don’t send your patrols out, BloodClan will just 
wait until you do,” Gremlin pointed out. “You can’t stay 
penned up in your camp forever. For one thing, you'd all 
starve. Besides,” she added, leaning even closer to 
Graystripe and speaking urgently, “if you change your 
routine, Fury will know that some cat has betrayed her. And 
it won’t take her long to realize that it was me.” 

Graystripe stared at her, all his suspicions returning. So 
our only hope is to leave our Clan weakened, and let 


BloodClan into our camp on purpose? Yet at the same 
moment, his mind was already busy with possible strategies: 
If he sent most of the warriors out of camp, they didn’t have 
to go far. They could entice BloodClan into ThunderClan’s 
camp and be ready to trap them there. 

“Trust me or not, Graystripe.” Gremlin was clearly aware 
of his misgivings. “Your choice.” 

Time seemed to slow as Graystripe faced her. He knew 
that the choice he was about to make could affect the future 
of his Clan for seasons upon seasons. Yet even as he 
accepted the risk he was taking, he had to rely on his 
instincts. And they had told him that Gremlin was being 
honest. 

Gremlin was clearly tense, digging her claws into the 
ground, fearful of her fate if her betrayal was discovered. 

Surely if she were lying to me, she couldnt pretend so 
well. 

Graystripe took a deep breath, feeling as if he were 
leaping off a precipice in darkness so thick, he couldn’t see 
what was at the bottom. 

“I do trust you,” he declared. “Two sunrises from now. 
We'll be ready. And I promise you, we уоп? do anything 
that will give Fury reason to suspect you.” 

“Then there’s more advice I can give you,” Gremlin 
mewed, huffing out a sigh of relief. “To begin with, you’ll 
want to pay special attention to a ginger cat called 


Brick...” 

Graystripe listened carefully, trying to memorize 
everything the BloodClan queen was telling him. Please, 
StarClan, let this be the thing that drives BloodClan away 
for good... . I dont want to be the cat responsible for the 
end of ThunderClan. 


CHAPTER 23 


Se 


— Now — 


Graystripe woke after a while, and the rest ofthe day slid 
by as he and Barley talked, telling stories about the Clans, 
and remembering Fang’s mother and her courage. 

“T remember how she faced up to a dog, one of the times 
she came to visit me and Ravenpaw,” Barley recounted. “It 
could have swallowed her in one gulp, but she raked her 
claws across its muzzle, and the stupid creature ran off 
yelping to its Twolegs.” 

Monkeystar and Clawwhistle paused in chasing each 
other through the grass heaps to listen, round-eyed, while 
Graystripe let out a small huff of laughter. “That sounds like 
Gremlin,” he commented. “She was brave—and 
trustworthy.” 

Finally, as the daylight faded, Barley stretched his jaws 
in a massive yawn. “It’s nice to have a cat visit who 
remembers these times,” he told Graystripe. “I won’t have 
many more chances to share my stories with any cat who 
was there. But now all these memories have made me 
sleepy,” he continued. “We'll talk again tomorrow, before 
you go.” With that, he curled up in his nest and closed his 
eyes. 


As soon as Barley’s snores began echoing through the 
barn, Fang rose to his paws and began working his claws 
impatiently in the grass. Clearly, he wasn’t at peace. 

“What’s the matter?” Graystripe asked him. “I thought 
you would like to hear how your mother risked her life for 
others. Doesn’t it make you proud to know she was such a 
brave cat?” 

“No!” Fang flashed back at him. “It was nice to hear 
those stories, but all they did was remind me that there are 
cats that I have to save right now, just like my mother did 
then. Do you even know how she died?” 

Graystripe shook his head, realizing that he had never 
asked. Maybe because I didnt want to believe that shes 
gone. 

“She died in the same Twoleg den that I escaped from,” 
Fang told him, settling down among the dried grass again. 

“What?” Graystripe stared at him, devastated to hear 
that. Fang had told himhow terrible the conditions there had 
become, but he hadn’t let himself imagine them leading to 
any cat’s death. Certainly not the death ofa cat as brave as 
Gremlin. “I thought once that she would become a warrior, 
but I hoped she would be happy wherever she ended up,” 
he meowed, trying to push away the horrific images that 
invaded his mind. 

“She was, at first,’ Fang sighed. “The female Twoleg 
was good to her. She had one other kittypet, a she-cat called 


Petunia, and then Gremlin had her litter—three kits, 
including me. The Twoleg gave my two littermates to other 
Twolegs, though I used to see them sometimes in their 
Twolegs’ gardens. After that, the three of us lived with her 
happily for many seasons.” 

“So what went wrong?” Graystripe asked. 

“I don’t know.” Fang began working his claws again. 
“The Twoleg got older, and I think she got sick. She started 
forgetting to feed us, sometimes for whole days. And 
instead of letting us go outside, she kept us shut in her den. 
Then she brought in another cat, and another—toms and 
she-cats. Some of the she-cats had kits, until the den was 
full of them.” 

Weird, Graystripe thought. He had never heard of 
Twolegs behaving like this. Was she trying to start her own 
Clan? And somehow it didnt occur to her that if she didnt 
feed them, they would have to go outside to hunt? 

It was too easy for Graystripe to imagine what the cats 
must have suffered, trapped in an overcrowded Twoleg den, 
hungry and dirty and scared. Pain clawed at his heart to 
think of Gremlin, so clever and brave and honest, reduced to 
that, after she had sacrificed her freedom to give her kits a 
good start in life. 

“And what happened to Gremlin?” he asked. 

“One day, she began to cough,” Fang went on, his eyes 
narrowing with the pain of remembering. “Of course I knew 


that was a bad sign. She needed help—herbs, or Twoleg 
medicine, or something! But by then the old Twoleg was too 
far gone to see that.” 

“What did you do?” Graystripe asked. 

Fang’s eyes closed completely for a moment, and he had 
to pause before he could manage to force the words out. “I 
kept yowling at the Twoleg, begging her to get some help, 
but she didn’t understand what I was saying. Even if she 
could have, by then she wasn’t even able to help herself. 
Her own clothes and bedding were getting dirty, and she 
was so skinny because she was always forgetting to eat. 
The den reeked of rotting Twoleg food. And always there 
were more and more cats—brought in by the Twoleg, or 
born right there in the den. There was never enough food to 
go around, the Twoleg stopped cleaning our dirt boxes, and 
she kept the doors and windows shut, so that you could 
hardly breathe. You would not believe the stench!” 

Graystripe suppressed a shudder. Back in ThunderClan’s 
camp, one of the apprentices’ most important duties was to 
change bedding regularly, and every cat in every Clan took 
part in keeping their camps clean. And that was in the open 
air! What it must be like, stuck in a Twoleg den... The walls 
would trap the stink and make it even worse. That just goes 
to show that its not right for cats to live behind walls. “Go 
on,” he mewed, his respect for Fang growing as he 
understood more of what he had survived. 


“Gremlin’s cough kept getting worse,” Fang continued, 
his voice quivering. “She got weaker and weaker, and 
then .. .” He closed his eyes, and Graystripe knew before he 
continued that what he would say next was going to be 
painful. “Then she died. But just before she did, she told me 
that I had to find a way out—that I had to help the others to 
escape, too. I promised her that I would, and now I have to 
fulfill that promise, no matter what it takes!” For a heartbeat, 
his eyes glowed with the fervor of his resolve. But then his 
head drooped and his shoulders sagged. “But I don’t know 
if I can,” he confessed. “Not without your help. Are you still 
going to keep the promise that you made to my mother?” 

Briefly, Graystripe was offended at the thought that Fang 
expected him to go back on his word. But then he realized 
that Fang had no experience of honorable warriors. 

“Of course I will!” he replied. “I know it took a long time 
to go to the Moonstone, and then to visit Barley, but I don’t 
intend to break my promise. You just have to be patient for a 
little longer... .” 

Fang raised his head, meeting Graystripe’s gaze directly. 
“Im not sure you understand how bad it is in there,” he 
meowed. “Every day we delay, there’s a greater chance that 
another cat will die in that Twoleg den.” 

Graystripe realized that the gray tom was right. He hadn’t 
known how bad it was in the Twoleg den, but also, he had 
been so busy feeling sorry for himself and disappointed by 


his experience at the Moonstone that he had forgotten there 
was a cat right in front of him who needed his help, and 
needed it urgently. 

I failed to reach StarClan at the Moonstone, but surely 1 
can do this one thing without their guidance? 

“Suppose we spend one more day here in the bam,” he 
suggested. “We'll need time to plan, and hunt to build our 
strength up, so—” 

Fang interrupted him by rising to his paws. “I’m going 
now,” he declared. “With you or without you.” 

“No.” Graystripe rose, too, and stretched out his tail to 
block the younger cat’s path. “It’s getting dark out there, 
and we both need sleep. So let’s compromise. At dawn 
tomorrow, ГЇЇ come with you, and I promise I won't leave 
you until we’ve freed every cat.” 

And that word, “promise,” means something, he 
reflected, between me and Gremlins son. 

For a moment, Fang hesitated, then settled into the dried 
grass once more. “Okay,” he agreed reluctantly. “But if for 
some reason you change your mind, I’m leaving at dawn.” 

Graystripe nodded agreement, admiring the younger 
cat’s resolve. Hes headstrong and heroic, just like his 
mother. “Gremlin would be proud of you,” he murmured. 

He glanced across at the two WarriorClan kittypets, who 
had spent most of the day chasing each other around the 
piles of grass, practicing their hunting moves, and 


, 


pretending to defend the barn against invading foxes. Now 
they were fast asleep, side by side in a grassy nest, with 
their noses resting on their forepaws and their tails twined 
together. 

“We’ll need to decide what to do with them,’ he 
murmured. “But we’ll worry about that tomorrow, when we 
make the rest of our plans.” 


Graystripe woke to find the first pale light of dawn 
seeping into the barn through the gaps in the roof. Beside 
him, Barley was stirring, too. 

“You’re up early,” Graystripe remarked, as the black-and- 
white tom rose to his paws and shook grass seeds out of his 
pelt. 

Barley shrugged. “Early to sleep, early to rise,” he 
mewed. “But why are you awake at this time? I thought 
you’d need your rest, after what you’ve been through.” 

“Pm still turning things over in my head,” Graystripe 
admitted. “I traveled so far to get to the Moonstone, but 
what I found there only made me more confused and upset. I 
miss ThunderClan,” he added with a sigh, “but Pmnot sure I 
have a place there anymore. Especially now that I’m nearing 
the end of my life. Pm just so weary. .. . Giving up seems 
more and more like the wisest choice.” 

To his astonishment, Barley let out a deep-throated 
mrrow of laughter. “If you’re old, what does that make me?” 
he asked. “Ancient!” 


“Tmsorry,” Graystripe protested. “I didn’t mean to insult 
you. It’s just that Гт beginning to feel like my best days are 
in the past.” 

Barley dismissed his apology with a wave of his tail. 
“Graystripe, to me you’re still a fairly young cat with a lot of 
life left in you.” 

“I guess you're right,” Graystripe admitted with a sigh. 
“But what does it matter how much time I have left, if I don’t 
know where to go or what to do? If every day I grow less 
sure that Ihave anything to offer my Clan?” 

“T know that the path of a warrior isn’t always easy,” 
Barley went on. “You don’t always get what you want when 
you want it, but you keep on going, helping others along the 
way if you can. You know, Graystripe, you don’t need any 
cat, living or dead, to tell you what feels right in your gut. If 
you think it over for yourself, the right answer will be clear.” 

Graystripe glanced over to where Fang was still sleeping 
peacefully. For a moment he wondered whether he should 
wake the tom, but then he decided to let him rest. This will 
be a long day for him, and hes already suffered so much, 
Graystripe thought. It was obvious in the way the cat carried 
himself, as if he had aged beyond his seasons; a Clan cat 
who looked like that would be almost ready to join the 
elders. And yet he refused to give up. 

So how can 1? Graystripe asked himself. No, like Millie 
told me in my dream, I have to go on. 


For the first time since his scare at the Moonpool, he 
saw at least the next few steps of his path before him, clear 
as day. 


CHAPTER 24 


Se 


— Now — 


Warm rays of sunlight were slanting into the barn from the 
gaps high in the walls when Fang finally awoke. Instantly, he 
sprang to his paws. 

“Why didn’t you wake me?” he demanded, glaring at 
Graystripe. “You agreed we would leave at dawn. I thought I 
could trust you!” 

“Keep your fur on,” Graystripe responded. “You needed 
sleep, and now you need to eat. We’ve a long way to travel, 
right to the other side of RiverClan territory, and we’ll go 
much faster if you’re strong and prepared.” 

“But you promised—” Fang began, then broke off with 
an awkward shrug, as if he was conceding that Graystripe 
might have a point, even though he obviously wasn’t happy 
about the delay. 

Graystripe, who had hunted—with a little help from 
Barley and the kittypets—after he awoke at dawn, brought 
Fang a couple of mice and set them down at his paws. 

“Thanks,” Fang mumbled, rapidly gulping down the 
prey. Then he added, with a penitent glance at Graystripe, “I 
guess you’re right. I’m really hungry. I could have easily 
eaten another couple of mice.” 


“You can try some kittypet food, if you like,” Barley 
offered; his Twolegs had brought hima massive bowlful not 
long ago. “Take as much as you can eat. The Twolegs 
always give me too much—these days, I don’t have the 
appetite that I used to.” 

“Try some,” Monkeystar urged Fang. “We always have 
a taste when we visit Barley; it’s really good!” 

“Better than the stuff our housefolk give us,” 
Clawwhistle muttered enviously. 

Graystripe suppressed a mrrow of amusement, 
wondering now whether WarriorClan’s frequent visits to 
Barley were entirely out of concern for the old cat. 

“Well, maybe, if you insist .. .” Fang eyed the bowl 
doubtfully and stretched out his neck to taste a single food 
pellet. A heartbeat later he was munching away with his 
nose buried deep in the bowl. 

While Fang was eating, Graystripe settled down once 
more beside Barley, trying to lend his old friend some of his 
strength through the brushing of their pelts. 

“Thank you for your advice,” he mewed. “It’s been so 
good to see you again.” 

“For me too,” Barley purred in response. “Tf it’s the last 
time I see a Clan cat before I die, I’m glad it was you, 
Graystripe.” 

Graystripe leaned closer to touch Barley’s ear with his 
nose. “That means a lot to me.” 


Before Barley could say any more, Fang rose from where 
he had been crouching over the old tom’s food bowl. “That 
was great,” he meowed, swiping his tongue around his jaws. 
“Thanks, Barley. I couldn't eat another mouthful. 
Апа . . . thanks for telling me those stories about my 
mother.” 

Barley dipped his head. “Any kit of Gremlin’s will always 
be free to share my food and my home.” 

“Time to go,” Graystripe declared, rising to his paws. 
“Barley, if I can, ГЇЇ drop in to see you again on my way back 
to the lake” 

“I would love that,” Barley responded. “But don’t take 
any extra risks for my sake. And whatever happens, good 
luck on your journey.” He dipped his head meaningfully. 
“May StarClan light your path, my old friend.” 

Graystripe felt words leave him for a moment. Jf only 1 
knew whether StarClan was watching! If only I could be 
sure Firestar and the others were guiding my paws. But 
looking into Barley’s cloudy gaze, Graystripe understood 
that his friend was wishing him more than StarClan’s 
attention. 

He was wishing him a future—and the hope to look 
forward to it. 

“And yours, Barley.” Graystripe stepped forward to 
touch noses one last time with his old friend. “Always 
yours.” 


“And what about us?” Monkeystar asked, bounding up 
to Graystripe with Clawwhistle a paw step behind. 

“You can come with us,” Graystripe replied, adding 
hastily, as the two kittypets exchanged a delighted glance, 
“only as faras your home. It’s on our way.” 

“But we’re not going home,” Monkeystar objected. “We 
want to come with you to Fang’s den. We can help!” 

Graystripe let out a sigh. J should have foreseen this! 
Now I have to let them down gently, he added to himself. Its 
great that they want to help, but they’d only end up being 
two more cats Ihad to watch out for. Га never forgive myself 
ifanything happened to them. 

“You’ve been such a big help already,” he told them, 
“helping me get to the Moonstone and then to the farm. But 
look—the truth is, what Fang and I have to do now is far too 
dangerous for you to get involved.” 

“Is not!” Clawwhistle twitched his tail indignantly; both 
he and Monkeystar stood tall, bushing out their fur to show 
how big and tough they were. “We're brave!” 

“І know you are,” Graystripe meowed. “But even though 
you feel like full warriors, back in the Clans you would still 
be just apprentices, with a lot to learn. Being a warrior is 
dangerous even for the most experienced cats.” 

“We don’t care!” Monkeystar insisted. “We still want to 
come with you.” 

Graystripe hesitated, wondering what arguments he 


could use to convince the young cats that where he and 
Fang were going was no place for them. It didn’t make it 
easier that in one way he admired them for their courage and 
enthusiasm; if they had been Clanborn, they would have 
made fine warriors, in time. 

“Tf the recent battles in the Clans have taught me 
anything,” he began, “it’s that as much as I love Clan life, it 
isn’t always easy, or safe. Гуе experienced so many 
senseless deaths, and I don’t want the two of you becoming 
more cats I need to mourn.” 

Monkeystar exchanged a glance with Clawwhistle, 
seeming more serious now. “I don’t think you’re being fair to 
us,” she told Graystripe. “We’ve learned a lot since we met 
you, and we’re not afraid. Let us help!” 

“Please!” Clawwhistle added. 

Graystripe remembered how all six kittypets had stalked 
him most of the way to the Moonstone, and knew that 
shaking these two off wouldn’t be as easy as he had hoped. 
He realized that the only way to handle them would be to 
give them a task: something that wouldn’t get them killed, 
but would give them a reason not to follow him in secret. 
After all, that was how he would deal with an overeager 
apprentice, back in the Clans. He glanced around for 
inspiration, and his gaze settled on Barley. 

“Okay, I know you’re brave cats,” he admitted, “so I 
guess I can trust you with the most important part of this 


mission.” 

Fang stared at him disbelievingly, while the two kittypets 
bounced up and down with excitement. “Yes, you can trust 
us!” Monkeystar promised. “What do we have to do?” 

“Stay right here and look after this territory, and watch 
over Barley,” Graystripe explained. Before the young cats 
had time to look disappointed, he went on quickly, “Fang 
and I won’t be as effective if we have to worry about Barley, 
because . . . er . . . he’s so old, and he seems 
so... vulnerable. What if... well, what if a badger should 
wander onto the farm? Only fierce warriors like you would be 
able to help.” 

“Pd be really grateful,” Barley put in. “I could never fight 
a badger on my own.” 

Clawwhistle puffed out his chest proudly. “I can do 
that!” he boasted. “Pm not scared of badgers. Nothing will 
happen to you on my watch, Barley!” 

But Monkeystar was watching Graystripe through 
narrowed eyes. “A badger, hmm? We don’t see many 
badgers on the farm.” 

Graystripe held her gaze. She sees right through me, he 
mused. Good, then: Monkeystar will be a wise leader after 
all. “There's always a first time,” he mewed gently. 

Monkeystar stared at him for a moment, then raised her 
head proudly. “Good idea. We’ll make sure the territory 
around the barn is safe, as well,” Monkeystar added. “In 


case you and Fang need a safe place to retreat.” 

“Good idea,” Graystripe praised them. Then he added 
sincerely, “I know I’ve left this mission in the right paws.” 

“Good-bye, then,” Fang mewed, giving Graystripe an 
impatient prod. 

“Good-bye!” the kittypets chorused. “And may StarClan 
light your path.” 

With a final farewell, Graystripe and Fang pushed their 
way through the gap in the bottomof the barn door and into 
the open. 

“So, you say this Twoleg den is on the far side of 
RiverClan’s old territory?” Graystripe asked Fang as they left 
the barn behind them. He gave a quick glance over his 
shoulder to make sure that the WarriorClan cats weren’t 
following them. 

“Yes, across the river from the treecutplace,” the gray 
tomreplied, angling his ears in that direction. 

“Then lead the way.” 

Fang headed along a narrow path that led away from the 
farm and alongside a hedge. Graystripe remembered the 
direction from his previous visits to the barn, though when 
they reached the former WindClan territory, they had to skirt 
around the new Twoleg dens, keeping very close to the edge 
of the river. Some of the Twoleg gardens stretched right 
down to the water’s edge, and the air was filled with the 
scents of Twolegs, dogs, and kittypets, along with the 


distant reek of monsters. Graystripe was overtaken once 
more with longing for the past, mingled with sadness at how 
everything had changed. He was relieved when he and Fang 
approached the Twoleg bridge and were able to cross into 
RiverClan’s old territory, which had hardly changed at all 
from how he remembered it. 

“I hope we don’t meet the rest of WarriorClan,” he 
murmured to Fang. “I never thought Га meet kittypets I liked 
so much, but we don’t want to deal with them now.” 

Though he caught a few traces of familiar scent, the 
young cats didn’t appear. Graystripe allowed himself to relax 
a little when he was able to plunge into the lush 
undergrowth on RiverClan’s side of the river. 

I could almost imagine I was back home, he thought, 
remembering the day when he had visited Leopardstar to 
give her the news that BloodClan had reappeared. But there 
was a bittersweet tang to the memory, as he recalled his 
unexpected chance to talk to his two kits. Now Feathertail 
was dead, and Stormfur lived far away in the mountains, far 
away from the Clans. 

You can never go back, however much you might want 
to. 

Although there were no new Twoleg dens here, 
Graystripe couldn’t pretend that nothing had changed. 
There were no border markers, there was no scent of cats, 
and when they passed the island where RiverClan had made 


its camp, there was no sign of life. Graystripe looked across 
the stream to what had been his own territory, but could see 
nothing but rows and rows of Twoleg dens. 

The last of the Clans have gone from this place, he 
thought, struggling with the biting pain of regret. 
WarriorClan keeps our memory alive, but even what they 
know of the Clans is far from the real story. 

Fang led the way alongside the river, past Sunningrocks 
and the stepping-stones that Graystripe had often crossed 
in secret to meet his mate Silverstream. Eventually he 
spotted the dark mass of Tallpines and the fences of the 
treecutplace. That, at least, had not changed; a shudder 
passed through Graystripe as he remembered how the dog 
pack had escaped from there and almost destroyed 
ThunderClan before Firestar had saved them. 

He shook off his brief memory to see that he had fallen 
behind Fang as the gray tom veered away from the waterside 
and plunged into a stretch of woodland. “We’re almost 
there,” he mewed. 

As Graystripe trailed him through the trees, he began to 
scent something foul in the air. He halted, nose twitching, 
and opened his jaws to taste, but he couldn’t identify what 
he was smelling. Cat scent was mingled with it; partly it 
reminded him of his camp’s dirtplace, and partly of one time 
when he’d had an infected wound, before Leafpool had 
healed him with fresh, tangy herbs. All of it was rolled 


together into the most eye-watering, throat-gagging stench 
that he had ever experienced. 

“What’s that?” he demanded. 

Fang glanced back over his shoulder. “That’s the Twoleg 
den,” he replied. 

For the first time, Graystripe began to have a true inkling 
of what he was walking into. The stink was so bad he just 
wanted to turn tail and run, and he couldn’t even see the 
walls of the den through the trees yet. 

“Coming?” Fang asked, a wry twist to his mouth 
suggesting that he wouldn’t be surprised if Graystripe 
backed out. 

Graystripe was tempted to do just that, but he braced 
himself to continue, remembering the vow he had made to 
Gremlin. “Lead on,” he growled. “I’mright behind you.” 

Moments later, as he followed Fang around a clump of 
elder bushes, he caught sight of the den, still several fox- 
lengths ahead. The walls had been built from gray stone, 
and though a stone path edged by plants suggested there 
had once been a garden, the wooden fence was broken 
down and the ground had been invaded by brambles and 
straggling grass. Various bits of Twoleg rubbish were strewn 
around. A small Thunderpath passed in front of the den, 
disappearing into the trees on either side. 

Graystripe would not have believed that the stink could 
get any worse, but as he and Fang crossed the Thunderpath 


and approached the den, it did just that. There was no 
escaping it; with every breath he took, he wanted to vomit. J 
its this bad out here, what must it be like inside? he 
wondered, a shudder running through him. 

The small windows of the den were covered by flat 
pieces of wood; one of them was hanging off, held up by 
only a single reddish claw. Springing up onto the sill, 
Graystripe peered through the gap. Inside, he could see cats 
running in and out of the room, perched on ledges fastened 
to the walls, or curled up on the soft rocks Twolegs kept in 
their nests. 

It is like theres a whole Clan in there! he thought. 

“How many cats are there?” he asked, springing down 
again to Fang’s side. 

“Гт пої sure.” Fang blinked uncertainly. “Ten, or maybe 
even fifteen. It’s hard to keep track, because there are always 
new kits being born. When I left, a couple of the queens 
were pregnant, and some of the very old cats may have died 
while Гуе been away.” 

I hadnt thought of that. Graystripe’s confidence of 
succeeding in their mission began to falter. If there are 
pregnant or elderly cats in there, that will make an escape 
even more dangerous. 

Graystripe began to inspect the den more closely. At 
first, because it seemed to be falling apart, he thought it 
would be easy to find a way in. But he realized that he was 


wrong. The door and the windows were all closed, even 
though the sun was beating down and the air was warm. The 
only open area Graystripe could see was a space beneath 
the den, which was propped up on piles of square-cut 
stones. 

“What’s under there?” he asked. 

Fang shrugged. “Nothing. Just the underside of the den 
floor.” 

“Then how are we supposed to get in?” Graystripe 
wondered aloud, hardly expecting an answer. 

Fang shook his head. “The Twoleg always keeps the 
place shut tight,” he replied, “except when she goes in or 
out, but the door around the back is made of little pieces of 
clearstone. One of them was broken, and I managed to 
squeeze through. I tried to make it bigger so the rest of them 
could escape, but I only managed to cut my paws.” 

Graystripe had noticed earlier that Fang had tom fur near 
his paws; now the gray tom stretched out one leg, showing 
his pads. Graystripe winced to see the scars that cut across 
them. 

“Couldn’t any of them have squeezed out like you did?” 
Graystripe asked. 

“Well, Pm skinnier than most.” Fang looked down at 
himself; Graystripe noticed that he was beginning to fill out, 
after a couple of days eating well. “Or I was. The kits are 
smaller, but they wouldn't leave without their mother. 


Besides, the others are scared,” Fang continued, “and they 
wouldn’t listen to me. They need a cat with authority to tell 
them what to do.” 

Authority? Me?  Graystripe thought with wry 
amusement. “Then let’s give the door at the back another 
try,” he meowed. “Together we might be able to make the 
hole bigger. It’s as good a plan as any.” 

Graystripe and Fang picked their way around the den, 
avoiding debris spilled on the ground, and broken bowls, 
made of curved red stone, that held long-dead plants. They 
jumped over Twoleg things made of sticks and soft pelts 
splitting open to show something like thistle-fluff stuffed 
inside. 

Looks like this Twoleg doesnt only collect cats, 
Graystripe thought. 

When the two toms reached the back door, Graystripe 
spotted the broken glass immediately, only to see that a 
piece of wood had been fastened across the hole on the 
inside. 

“Oh, no!” Fang exclaimed with a frustrated lash of his 
tail, his eyes widening in despair. 

“Keep your fur on,” Graystripe advised. “Maybe we can 
move it.” 

But when he thrust at the wood with one paw, it would 
not give way—and the sharp edges of the broken glass 
meant it would be no use trying to lever it off by clawing at 


the side. 

“Fox dung!” Graystripe snarled, and gave up the 
attempt, peering instead through the neighboring piece of 
glass into the room beyond. 

This close to the den, the stench was so overpowering 
that it was all he could do not to retch. Inside, among piles 
of rubbish and rotting food, he could make out at least a 
dozen cats. They were all scrawny and ragged-looking, like 
rogues who hadn’t seen prey in many moons, nor groomed 
themselves for at least as long. And it was clear that these 
cats seemed to make dirt wherever they felt like it. 

Thats no way for a decent cat to behave, Graystripe 
thought, bile rising into his throat at the very idea. Even 
kittypets use those funny little boxes. Then, as he looked 
again at the tightly closed door, he realized that with their 
Twoleg neglecting them like this, the imprisoned cats had no 
choice. 

Beneath the smell of dirt and debris, Graystripe could 
make out the sickly-sweet scent of infection. At least one cat 
in there was sick or injured, and without treatment they 
would only get worse. 

That might be Fangs mate, Daffodil, he thought. Fang 
said she was sick. And hes right. These cats need to be 
rescued, and theres no time to spare. 

Graystripe returned to Fang, who was waiting for him a 
few tail-lengths away. He felt a sudden rush of sympathy for 


the skinny tom. Now I understand what hes been 
through... . It would be cruel to send him back in there. “Tf 
I can find another way in,” he meowed, “maybe I can open 
the door from the inside, and you can lead the cats into the 
woods.” 

Fang shook his head despondently. “I don’t know. .. . 
Do you really think you can pull that off?” 

With Fang trailing behind him, Graystripe began to prowl 
around the outside of the den, alert for any sign of an 
opening that he could use. He had almost arrived back at his 
starting point when he spotted a window standing ajar on 
the upper floor The gap was tiny: A mouse might have 
slipped through it easily, but it was hardly big enough for a 
full-grown cat to squeeze through. 

Its the only chance we have, though ... so I have to at 
least try. 

“If I can get up there,” he told Fang, pointing with his 
tail, “I might be able to pry it open further and wriggle 
inside.” 

Fang surveyed the window doubtfully. “I suppose we 
could attempt it.” 

“But you aren’t coming with me,” Graystripe continued. 
“There’s—” 

“What?” Fang interrupted. “No way!” 

Graystripe raised his tail to silence the younger cat. “As 
I was saying, there's no point in both ofus getting stuck in 


there. Besides, I need you out here, to encourage the cats to 
leave, once I’ve found a way. They know you, and they’ll 
trust you.” 

“Okay,” Fang agreed reluctantly. 

Glancing around, Graystripe spotted a tree growing near 
the den, with a branch stretching most of the way to the 
open window. The branch looked uncomfortably spindly, 
and he would have to jump a couple of tail-lengths from the 
end, but he thought he should be able to do it. 

StarClan! Гт getting too old for this! 

Graystripe was aware of Fang’s watching him with clear 
admiration as he clawed his way up the tree; it made him feel 
unusually self-conscious as he ventured out onto the 
branch. It bounced under his weight, and for a moment he 
froze, digging his claws into the bark and squeezing his eyes 
tight shut. But he knew he couldn't face Fang if he retreated 
now, without even trying to get into the den. 

Forcing his eyes open, Graystripe advanced cautiously 
along the branch, paw step by paw step, while the branch 
dipped and swayed beneath him. When he reached the end, 
he could tell it wasn’t solid enough to push off for a really 
good leap, but he didn’t have much of a choice. For a 
moment, he paused, sizing up the distance between the 
branch and the windowsill. Then, taking a deep breath, he 
coiled his hind legs under himand jumped. 

At first, he thought he was going to fall short, crashing 


to the ground and breaking all his legs. Then his forepaws 
slammed against the sill. He scrabbled frantically with his 
hind paws and managed to achieve a precarious balance 
while he tugged with one paw at the edge of the window to 
enlarge the gap. His paws were slipping, and once again he 
imagined plummeting down, legs and tail flailing helplessly, 
before the window creaked open another mouse-length and 
he was able to slide into the den. 

Graystripe stood for a moment, breathing hard, his legs 
trembling after the struggle to get inside. He had hoped that 
he would be able to lead the trapped cats to freedom 
through the open window, but now he realized that if they 
were sick or weak, they would never be able to manage it. 
Pregnant she-cats or very young kits would have no hope, 
either. 

I hope 1 dont have to go back that way, he thought 
grimly. 

Up here, the light was dim, struggling to reach through 
the filthy window, and the air was musty, but there were few 
signs of cats. To Graystripe’s relief, the door of this room, at 
least, was open; he padded silently across to it and peered 
out into a passage. 

He was about to venture further when he heard the 
sound of Twoleg paw steps in the room next to him, and the 
Twoleg’s voice calling out. Graystripe had no idea what she 
was meowing about, but he waited tensely until he was sure 


that she was staying put. Then he stepped out into the 
passage, all his senses alert for signs of danger. 

Graystripe could hear cats yowling from somewhere 
below, and, slinking along the passage, he came to a jagged 
slope leading downward. He padded down, leaving the 
Twoleg noises behind him. 

As his paws touched the floor at the bottom, he felt 
something sticky on his pads; looking down, he saw 
something brown and foul-smelling stretching in all 
directions. 

Yuck! I dont even want to know what that is! 

Padding forward, Graystripe found himself weaving his 
way through a maze of filth. He cringed at setting his paws 
down on the disgusting surface of the floor, thinking how 
much trouble a warrior apprentice would be in for leaving 
even a trace of mess like this in the camp. 

Everywhere he looked were weary cats, who raised their 
heads to give hima blank stare as he passed by, but didn’t 
speak or even seem curious to see a newcomer among them. 
In a dark corner he spotted a ginger-and-white she-cat lying 
on a heap of dirty pelts; her eyes were glassy, and her chest 
heaved with her labored breathing. The smell of infection 
was even stronger as Graystripe approached her. 

That must be Daffodil, he thought, remembering how 
Fang had described his mate. She looked just as bad as Fang 
had warned him, but at least she was still alive. He hesitated, 


wondering whether to speak to her, to tell her that her mate 
was close by, but then he decided that it was more important 
to open the gap in the door and let the cats out. 

Eventually, Graystripe found his way to the door with 
the broken pane of glass. Fang was waiting for him on the 
other side, and glanced up with a look of relief as Graystripe 
appeared. 

Graystripe clawed at the edges of the piece of wood that 
was blocking the gap, but however hard he tried, he couldn’t 
pry it away from the door frame. All he managed to do was 
break a claw. 

“Fox dung!” he hissed, and rammed himself against the 
door with outstretched paws in the hope of pushing it open. 

Fang leaped up on the outside, trying to grab at the 
shiny round thing that Twolegs used to open the door. But it 
didn’t work for Fang. All his tugging and Graystripe’s 
pushing were quite useless. The door was shut fast. 

As Graystripe stood there panting, trying to think of 
another way to get out, he heard a creaking sound coming 
from the upper floor. Fang leaped backward, gazing up; his 
eyes widened with alarm. 

“What is it?” Graystripe called. 

“The window!” Fang called back. “The Twoleg has shut 
the window! Oh, Graystripe, you’re trapped in there!” 


CHAPTER 25 


Se 


— Now — 


“Dont panic!” Graystripe told Fang, though he was 
struggling not to panic himself. His heart was beating fast, 
and a sickly feeling rose in his throat. It reminded him of 
another time, now long past, when he’d become stuck in a 
Twoleg’s den. It hadn’t been nearly as bad as this one, but 
still, he’d been desperate to escape! “There must be another 
way out. We both need to calmdown and think.” 

“Did you see that hole near the other door?” Fang 
meowed after a moment. 

“Yes,” Graystripe replied, “but it’s far too small for a cat 
to get through.” 

“That’s true,” Fang agreed, “but maybe if you claw at it, 
you can make it bigger and get out that way.” 

Graystripe had his doubts. If it were that easy to escape, 
Fang and the other cats would have done so long ago. But 
anything was better than standing here in the filth and not 
making any effort to break out. 

“PI try,” he declared. 

As he padded back through the den, the other cats 
barely paid him any attention. Graystripe guessed that they 
must be used to new cats turning up all the time, as Fang 


had told him. Or maybe they were just too tired, or too sick, 
to care anymore. But he noticed that one old, weary she-cat 
was watching him listlessly, and rose to follow him as he 
approached the door. Graystripe dipped his head to her, but 
she didn’t speak. 

Graystripe found the hole without any difficulty: a 
jagged, three-cornered gap in the wall at about the height of 
his head. Fang had been right that it was too small for a full- 
grown cat; even a kit would have difficulty squeezing 
through. But Graystripe wasn’t about to give up. He pawed 
determinedly at the edges of the gap, and at first he was 
encouraged as they began to crumble away under his 
scraping claws. 

“Do you think we haven’t tried that?” a voice came from 
behind him. 

Graystripe turned to see the old she-cat. She had once 
been beautiful, he realized: She had fluffy gray fur that she at 
least made an attempt to groom, and large, lustrous amber 
eyes, which were fixed on him now with an irritated 
expression. 

“It's no use clawing,” she snapped. “You might shift a 
bit of that crumbly stuff, but there’s harder rock underneath 
that won’t budge. The hole will never get any bigger, and 
there’s no way out. Honeysuckle just got lucky.” 

“Honeysuckle?” Graystripe asked, bewildered. 

“That skinny gray tom out there,” the she-cat 


responded, jerking her head toward the back door. 

“Oh .. .” Now Graystripe understood. Honeysuckle must 
be Fang’s kittypet name. When he escaped, he must have 
given himself a tougher-sounding one. Maybe to impress 
me, Graystripe thought. In spite of his terrible situation, he 
had to suppress a small mrrow of amusement. 

From where he was standing, Graystripe could hear Fang 
—or Honeysuckle—clawing at the other side of the hole 
from outside the den, but the old she-cat had been right: The 
hard rock wouldn’t budge. 

“It's no use, Fang,” Graystripe yowled through the hole. 
“Just sit tight. Pll think of something.” 

Peering through the opening, he could see Fang, sitting 
back and waiting with a trusting expression on his face. 
What if I let him down? he thought. However hard he tried 
to think of another way to escape, his mind was a blank. 

“You’re new here,” the old she-cat remarked. “What’s 
your name?” 

“Graystripe. What’s yours?” 

“Рт Petunia. Гуе been here longest. I’ve seen all the 
new arrivals, and they all try to get out at first. But it can’t be 
done. You’ll be a lot happier if you just settle down and 
accept it.” 

Graystripe couldn’t imagine ever being happy in this 
disgusting place. “If you’ve been here longest, you must 
have known Fang’s—I mean Honeysuckle’s—mother,” he 


mewed. 

“Oh, yes, I knew Gremlin very well,” Petunia replied, her 
eyes filling with sadness. “She was such a kindhearted cat. 
She did her best to take care of the rest of us when our 
Twoleg couldn’t do it anymore. It was hard on all of us to 
see her get sick and die.” 

Yes, that sounds just like what Gremlin would have 
done, Graystripe thought, remembering the queen’s love for 
her brother and her unborn kits. Trying to take care of cats 
who were unable to take care of themselves. 

As Petunia was talking, Graystripe began to hear a 
shuffling sound, and turned to see a very old Twoleg 
carrying two bowls. Her skin was wrinkled and her back 
hunched; her pelts were dirty, hanging off her scrawny 
body, and her head fur was white and straggly. Graystripe 
felt a stab of pity; clearly, she wasn’t looking after herself 
any better than she looked after the cats. 

Graystripe braced himself, ready for the Twoleg to spot 
him, but her watery gaze passed over him without any 
reaction. Obviously, she had so many cats that she just 
assumed he was one of hers. 

But how is that possible? Graystripe asked himself. / 
smell so different from them! 

The Twoleg said something as she put the bowls down, 
her voice kind and gentle. Graystripe didn’t understand her 
words, except that she seemed to be calling all the cats 


Petunia, but it was clear from the affection in her voice that 
she loved every one of them. 

Instantly cats appeared from every corner of the den, like 
crows descending on a dead animal. They were yowling with 
hunger, pushing and squirming to reach the bowls. There 
wasn’t nearly enough food for so many cats; the smaller and 
weaker ones were thrust to the back of the crowd, where 
they didn’t get so much as a sniff. 

When was the last time she fed them enough for all of 
them? Graystripe wondered as he watched, appalled. From 
the looks of them, its been too long. 

The gray she-cat, Petunia, barreled into the midst of the 
skirmish and grabbed up a mouthful of scraps. But instead 
of gulping them down, she fought her way out of the throng 
and headed to the comer where the orange-and-white she- 
cat was lying. 

Graystripe followed her in time to see her setting down 
the scraps in front of the sick cat. 

“Here you are, Daffodil,’ Petunia mewed. “Eat up. You 
need your strength to get better.” 

Graystripe watched, a purr rising in his throat at the old 
cat’s gentleness. She stroked Daffodil’s flank with her tail 
while the sick she-cat forced down some of the food. Petunia 
only finished off the leftovers after Daffodil had eaten all she 
could. 

As soon as the Twoleg had retreated and the cats had 


finished devouring the scanty food, Graystripe sprang up 
onto a nearby window ledge and let out a commanding yowl, 
to get the cats’ attention before they dispersed again. 

The cats turned toward him, some of them blinking in 
confusion, some of them looking vaguely curious. “Who are 
you?” a black-and-white tom asked. “You weren’t here this 
morning.” 

“My name is Graystripe, and I’m a friend of Fang’s—I 
mean, a friend of Honeysuckle’s,” Graystripe replied. “But 
that doesn’t really matter. The important question is, do you 
want to get out ofhere?” 

Several cats nodded. One of them, a bright orange tabby 
with amber eyes, stepped forward until she stood right 
under the window where Graystripe was perched. 

“Hi, Pm Lily,” she began. “Of course we want to get out 
of here. We’ve wanted to leave ever since we first arrived. 
But we’ve tried. There’s just no way to escape this place.” 

“There has to be,” Graystripe insisted, “and if we all put 
our heads together, I’m sure that we can find it.” 

“And I’m sure that hedgehogs might fly, 
muttered from the back of the crowd. 

But Graystripe thought that most of the cats were 
considering what he had said. Their eyes even looked 
brighter, as ifhis words had encouraged them. 

“Гуе got an idea,” one of the younger cats meowed. He 
was a lean tom with amber eyes and patches of bare skin 


” 


some cat 


where his fur was missing. “Maybe we can all attack the 
Twoleg the next time she opens the door.” 

A chorus of agreement greeted his plan, but the old she- 
cat, Petunia, looked outraged. “Absolutely not!” she 
snapped. Her fur bristled up, and she slid out her claws as if 
she might attack the young tom. 

“But it might work,” Graystripe pointed out to her. “Why 
are you So against it?” 

Petunia turned her amber gaze on him with a look of deep 
unhappiness. “My Twoleg rescued me from a place where 
they kill cats who have no home,” she replied. “She saved 
my life. I know what she’s become, but in spite of that, I still 
love her, and I could never do anything to harm her.” 

The young tom who had suggested the attack let out a 
snort of contempt. 

“Flea-brain!” Petunia narrowed her eyes in a glare of 
withering scorn. “It’s not the Twoleg’s fault that she’s old 
and sick now and gets confused. We cats might be the only 
thing keeping her alive. It will break her heart if we all 
escape. Especially me, because I was her first cat.” 

“Is that why she seems to call you all Petunia?” 
Graystripe asked, impressed by the old she-cat’s loyalty. 

Petunia nodded. “I think she can only remember one 
name now.” 

Graystripe could sympathize with her. When he’d been 
trapped by the Twolegs, he had ended up living as a kittypet 


for a while. Though it hadn’t been his choice, and he’d 
longed to get back to his life as a warrior, his Twolegs had 
taken good care of him, and he knew there were more good 
Twolegs out there. Clearly this old Twoleg didn’t mean to be 
unkind to her cats. 

“Tunderstand,” he told Petunia, “but this is no way fora 
cat to live.” 

“Гуе gotten used to it,” Petunia argued. “And sooner or 
later, the others will, too.” 

“But some of them won’t live long enough to get used to 
it,” Graystripe pointed out. “There are sick cats here, some 
who are starving, some who are expecting kits, and you all 
need more care than the Twoleg can give you. It isn’t fair for 
them to be treated this way.” 

A murmur of agreement came from the crowd of cats, 
while Petunia fell silent, bowing her head in acknowledgment 
that Graystripe was right. 

After a few long moments, she looked up and spoke 
again. “I may know ofa way to get out,” she mewed. 

“And you never told us about it?” Lily exclaimed, as if 
she didn’t believe what she had just heard. 

Petunia sighed. “I don’t know for sure that it will work. 
But every so often, the Twoleg goes outside to collect 
something from a box out there, or to do something in the 
garden. It doesn’t happen every day, and we’d have to be 
ready in case it does happen. But I thought we might try 


finding something to prop the door open the next time. She 
might not notice, and then we can escape.” 

“Good idea,” Graystripe commented. “Even if it takes 
some time, it’s worth a try.” 

“But ’m not going anywhere,” Petunia mewed defiantly. 
“This is my home, for better or worse.” 

“We can’t abandon you here!” Lily protested. 

“You have to come with us!” another cat meowed from 
the back of the crowd. 

But Graystripe saw how resolute and certain the old cat 
looked, and he respected her decision, even though he 
didn’t think it was the right one. 

“ГИ find something to prop open the door.” Lily darted 
away and returned a moment later dragging a small piece of 
Twoleg pelt. She concealed it behind one of the heaps of 
debris that lay all around the den. Graystripe went to the 
broken door again to tell Fang the new plan. He encouraged 
the tom to rest nearby, and to be ready to help if the Twoleg 
left the den. 

Then all the cats slid away to hide in shadowed comers, 
or behind more of the Twoleg rubbish. Graystripe stayed 
where he was, watching; he could see the gleam of eyes 
from the cats’ hiding places, each gaze trained on the closed 
door. 

Time seemed to slow down as Graystripe and the other 
cats waited. The sun’s rays slid up the walls and then 


disappeared altogether, and the light turned pink, then pale 
blue. Graystripe was beginning to feel sleepy, but he was 
determined to stay awake. Finally, when the light from 
outside was nearly gone, Graystripe heard the Twoleg’s 
shuffling paw steps, and saw her heading for the door. She 
was carrying a green container with a spout sticking out of 
one side. Water was sloshing out of the top; Graystripe 
wondered if she was going to give some water to the long- 
dead plants in the bowls outside. Why now, when its nearly 
dark? But he supposed much of what the Twoleg did now 
wasn’t easy to explain. 

Graystripe leaped down to fetch the pelt, but by the time 
he had retrieved it from its hiding place, the Twoleg was 
already out of the door and closing it behind her. Hissing 
with frustration, he crouched close by, so that he’d be ready 
when she retumed. 

When the Twoleg finally came inside again, the door 
swung back into position behind her. For just a moment, 
Graystripe could see the garden outside, and he spotted 
Fang watching from a nearby overgrown bush, his eyes 
wide and hopeful. Graystripe moved quickly to shove the 
pelt into the gap. But the door was too heavy; as it closed, it 
pushed the pelt aside and shut with a snap. 

No! 

The room was cloaked in gloom; Graystripe felt it sinking 
into his pelt like gray fog as he stared despairingly at the 


barrier. His chest was so tight he could hardly breathe. 
What if I never get out of here? 


CHAPTER 26 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe burrowed down into his nest and tried to ignore 
his itching paws and the sensation ofants crawling through 
his pelt. Though two moons had slipped by since Firestar’s 
departure, he was still sleeping in the warriors’ den; it felt 
wrong to use Firestar’s when his leader was still alive. 

At least, Ihope hes still alive. 

He had never regretted that decision until now, when he 
wanted to pace and shake out some of his nerves, but had to 
stay curled up and pretend to be asleep so as not to disturb 
his Clanmates. For the approaching day was when 
BloodClan would launch their attack. 

That is, if Gremlin was telling the truth, he reminded 
himself. Then he murmured aloud, “I trust her. BloodClan is 
out there. They’re coming. And ThunderClan will be ready.” 

Finally, dawn light began to show through the chinks in 
the roof of the den. “Thank StarClan,” Graystripe breathed 
out, rising to his paws and shaking scraps of moss out of his 
pelt. 

Quietly he padded from nest to nest, rousing his warriors 
and leading them out into the center of camp. Not all of them 
had been asleep; some were as tense as Graystripe himself, 


ready to defend the camp at any moment, and rising to 
follow him with heartfelt huffs of relief. 

Then Graystripe bounded from den to den to fetch the 
elders, the apprentices, and the two queens from the 
nursery. There would be no yowling today to call a special 
Clan meeting; if any BloodClan cats were listening—and 
Graystripe was sure that they were—they must hear nothing 
but the ordinary sounds of a camp waking for the day’s 
duties. 

Last ofall, Graystripe slipped into Cinderpelt’s den. 

“Is it time?” she asked, her blue eyes gleaming in the 
dawn twilight. 

Graystripe nodded. “Come outside. I’m going to address 
the Clan. You too, Longtail,” he added to the pale tabby 
warrior. “T’llneed you.” 

“Tmready!” Longtail sprang up and followed Graystripe 
into the open, with Cinderpelt’s tail on his shoulder to guide 
him. 

Graystripe beckoned with his tail for his Clanmates to 
draw closer until the whole Clan was huddled around him, 
tense and silent, their gazes fixed on his face. He spoke in a 
low voice, but every word carried clearly. 

“According to Gremlin,’ he began, “BloodClan will 
attack when the sun clears the tops of the trees. That gives 
us a little time. Until then, we must convince BloodClan that 
we don’t suspect anything, and that this is just a normal day 


in ThunderClan. We have to carry out our duties just as we 
usually do.” 

Graystripe paused, letting his gaze rove around his Clan. 
When he had made his plan, he’d realized that he didn’t 
have quite enough warriors for everything he would like to 
do, and his thoughts had tumed to Frostfur and 
Goldenflower. They had retired to the elders’ den less than a 
moon before Firestar had left on his quest, and they still had 
plenty of life left in them. 

“Frostfur,” he continued, turning to the white she-cat, 
“how would you and Goldenflower like to be warriors again, 
just for today?” 

Frostfur sat up straighter, her blue eyes gleaming, while 
Goldenflower sprang to her paws, flexing her claws eagerly 
in the earth of the camp floor. “Just try us!” she exclaimed. 

Graystripe dipped his head in respect for the older cats’ 
commitment to their Clan. “Then go and do the dawn 
patrol,” he meowed. “If you see or scent BloodClan, just 
ignore them—and whatever you do, dont get into a fight 
with themunless there’s no way to avoid it.” 

“We can fight,” Frostfur mewed, sounding slightly 
indignant. 

“Of course you can,” Graystripe told her. “So as soon as 
you hear the attack start—and believe me, you will hear it 
start—come straight back here and help.” 

“Right.” Frostfur swished her tail “Come on, 


Goldenflower.” 

Graystripe watched the two she-cats head toward the 
gorse tunnel, hoping that if BloodClan were watching they 
wouldn’t realize that he wasn’t sending out quite as many 
cats as usual. He wanted this to seem like an ordinary day, 
and he had planned his battle strategy accordingly, but he 
couldn’t drain the camp ofall his experienced warriors. 

“Brackenfur,” he went on, once the she-cats had left. 
“You’ve always excelled at spotting prey. You and 
Brambleclaw can be a hunting patrol. Stay fairly close to the 
camp, between the camp and the Twolegplace. I expect 
BloodClan will come from that direction. If you spot them, 
come back and report, but in any case, come back as soon as 
you hear the attack start.” 

Brackenfur, who by now seemed reconciled to the Clan’s 
agreement with Gremlin, gave him a brisk nod and headed 
out, with Brambleclaw padding along at his shoulder. 

“What about us?” Sootpaw asked, wriggling between 
his Clanmates to the front of the crowd. “Don’t we get to do 
anything?” 

His mentor, Thomclaw, gave him a cuff around the ear, 
his claws sheathed. “Shut up, you little mouse-brain. This 
isn’t a fun game for apprentices.” 

“Oh, I have something for the ’paws to do,” Graystripe 
meowed. “Thornclaw, Dustpelt, Cloudtail,” he added, 
naming their three mentors, “you’re going to take your 


apprentices and do some battle training in the sandy hollow. 
When you hear the attack begin, I want you to get back here 
as fast as you can and fall on BloodClan from behind.” 

“Cool!” Rainpaw exclaimed. 

“No, not “cool,” Graystripe told him, doing his best to 
look sternly at the younger cats. “As soon as you three hear 
the fighting, you are to climb the nearest tree, and you’re to 
stay there until it’s all over.” 

“But that’s not fair!” Sorrelpaw blurted out. “We want to 
fight. I just learned a new move.” She reared up on her hind 
paws and batted at the air with her forepaws, as if she were 
raking her tiny claws across an enemy’s pelt. 

“Very good,” Graystripe mewed апу. “You're still 
staying up in your tree.” 

“Apprentices fought in the first battle against 
BloodClan,” Rainpaw muttered. 

“And those apprentices were experienced, almost 
warriors,” his mentor Cloudtail pointed out. “You three are 
barely out of the nursery.” 

“And that’s where you’ll end up, if I hear any more 
arguing,” Graystripe snapped. “We’re wasting time. Go 
now.” 

The three mentors bounded off toward the gorse tunnel; 
their apprentices followed in a cluster, grumbling among 
themselves. 

“Okay, the rest of us will stay here,’ Graystripe 


continued, gazing around at his remaining Clanmates. He 
could see from their bristling fur and twitching tails how 
nervous they were, but their eyes glittered with 
determination. “Brightheart, Ferncloud, your job is to guard 
the nursery.” 

“Don’t worry, Graystripe,” Brightheart responded, her 
one good eye gleaming fiercely. “No BloodClan cat will harm 
our kits.” 

Graystripe gave the two queens an approving nod, then 
turned to the remaining elders. “Go back to your den,” he 
instructed them. “Longtail, you go with them. They’ll need a 
warrior for some extra strength.” 

Dappletail slid out her claws. “We can still fight.” 

“Yeah,” Speckletail added, raising one hind paw to 
scratch her neck. “We’ve forgotten more battle moves than 
those BloodClan mange-pelts ever knew.” 

“I don’t doubt it,” Graystripe agreed. “I still want you to 
hide in your den, and surprise BloodClan with a second 
wave of defense if they seem to be winning.” 

“You got it,” One-eye meowed, and led the way back to 
the fallen tree. 

Longtail brought up the rear, his chest puffed out with 
pride to be counted among the warriors again. Graystripe 
hoped he had understood his real task: to keep the elders 
out of harm’s way unless things got really desperate. 

“And what about us?” Ashfur asked. He was crouched 


next to Mousefur, the only two warriors left without a 
specific task. They were both looking annoyed, as if they 
felt they had been passed over in Graystripe’s battle plan. 

“Go and hide in the long grass at the edge of the camp,” 
Graystripe instructed. “You’re going to give BloodClan the 
shock of their miserable lives. And once the battle starts,” 
he added, “yowl as loudly as you can, to let our Clanmates 
outside know.” 

The two cats’ annoyance vanished, and their eyes lit up 
as they dashed off in different directions to find hiding 
places. To Graystripe’s relief, Ashfur seemed to be fully 
committed, his complaints about the leadership forgotten 
now that the crisis was upon them. 

That left Cinderpelt. “Once the battle starts, I will look 
for Gremlin,” she mewed. “ГЇЇ get her away if I can, and we’ll 
hide out at Sunningrocks. You can send some cat to fetch us 
when the fighting is done.” 

“You’re assuming we’re going to win,” Graystripe 
responded with a twitch of his whiskers. 

Cinderpelt flicked his ear with her tail. “Of course we’re 
going to win.” 

“Has StarClan told you that?” Graystripe asked 
hopefully. 

The medicine cat shook her head. “They don’t need to. 
We’re ThunderClan!” 

She headed back to her den; Graystripe knew she had 


already prepared healing herbs, ready to treat any injured 
warriors injured after the battle. 

With all his Clan in place, Graystripe went to sit at the 
entrance to the warriors’ den so that he could duck inside 
once BloodClan approached. He wanted them to think they 
were entering a completely empty camp, or at least a camp 
whose strongest defenders were busy elsewhere. 

Considering the desperate situation, he felt optimistic. 
No cat had seriously argued with his battle plan; for the first 
time, he felt like a Clan leader. But I’m not a Clan leader he 
thought. He had seen the confidence the other warriors had 
in him, but he couldn’t feel the same confidence in himself. 

He sat there, immobile, outwardly calm, but inwardly he 
was beginning to worry whether his plan would work, and 
he was especially worried about the warriors he had sent out 
of camp. He had told them not to attack BloodClan out in the 
forest, but what if BloodClan attacked them? They’d be able 
to pick them off one by one. All he had to rely on was 
Gremlin’s assurance that BloodClan meant to take the camp 
first. 

His anxiety had begun to grow unbearable when he saw 
the first sign of movement at the end of the gorse tunnel. 
BloodClan already? he thought, his belly lurching and his 
heart beginning to pound. The sun was still casting 
shadows across the floor of the camp. Had Gremlin lied to 
him after all? Would ThunderClan be surprised by 


BloodClan arriving early? 

Graystripe realized he just had to trust his instincts. 
Thats what I did when I made the bargain with Gremlin. 
Trusting their instincts is sometimes the only thing that a 
leader can do. 

Then he saw that the cat emerging from the tunnel was 
Brackenfur, racing across the camp to stand stiffand panting 
in front of Graystripe, his golden-brown tabby fur bushing 
out. Brambleclaw followed more slowly. 

“They’re almost here,” Brackenfur gasped when he had 
got his breath. “Slinking through the trees from the 
Twolegplace, just like you said they would. StarClan, there 
are a lot of them!” 

“There аге a lot of us, too,” Graystripe responded calmly. 
“And even if we are outnumbered, we’re better trained than 
they are.” 

Dismissing the two cats to hide in the long grass, 
Graystripe slipped inside the warriors’ den and crouched just 
beside the entrance, peering out through a chink between 
the interlacing brambles. 

If this doesnt work, he thought, ГЇЇ have proven to the 
rest of the Clan that I was never fit to fill in for Firestar.... 
Where does that leave me as deputy? A pang of longing for 
his leader passed through Graystripe from ears to tail-tip. 
Firestar . . . He wished so much that his friend were here to 
talk over the plan with—and to make the final decision. 


But the decision is already made, he reminded himself. / 
made it—and now I have to deal with the consequences. 

The tree shadows were growing shorter, and at the 
moment they vanished, as the sun cleared the treetops, the 
cats of BloodClan poured into the camp. With Fury at their 
head, they spread out across the clearing, snarling and 
hissing, with teeth bared and backs arched and claws 
extended. 

“Come out, come out, ThunderClan!” Fury yowled. “Or 
are you all hiding like scaredy-mice?” 

Graystripe sprang out of the warriors’ den, letting his fur 
bristle up to look twice his size—and, he hoped, twice as 
threatening. “Now!” he screeched. 

Ashfur and Mousefur rose up out of the long grass, 
letting out fearsome caterwauls. On the opposite side of the 
camp, Brackenfur and Brambleclaw leaped out of hiding, 
their yowls too giving the signal to the cats still outside. 

Massively relieved that the waiting was over, Graystripe 
hurled himself into the battle, his Clanmates only a paw step 
behind him. He wanted to get to Fury, hoping that if he 
could defeat their leader, the BloodClan attack would fall 
apart. He could see her only a few tail-lengths away; even 
though she had only one eye, she was battling with a skill 
and determination that sent a chill right through Graystripe. 

Do Ihave what it takes to beat her? he wondered. Well, 
there 5 only one way to find out. 


A younger cat with patchy fur like Gremlin’s was fighting 
at his leader’s side. That must be Scraps, Graystripe 
thought, noting how swiftly the tom could dart in, slash an 
opponent with his sharp claws, and then hop away to safety. 
Not too swift for me, though. Dont get in my way, he added 
silently. Га rather not have to kill you. 

By now the center of the camp had become a mass of 
heaving, clawing cats, spitting defiance at each other. The 
ThunderClan warriors were overwhelmed. Graystripe saw 
Ashfur pinned down under Scraps, while two other 
BloodClan cats were driving Mousefur and Brambleclaw 
paw step by paw step back toward the nursery. 

Oh, StarClan! Graystripe’s belly cramped with tension. 
We’re going to lose! 

Then he spotted Cloudtail, Thornclaw, and Dustpelt 
barreling out of the gorse tunnel, flinging themselves on the 
BloodClan cats from behind. 

Thank StarClan! But— Graystripe gave up his struggle 
to get to Fury through the crowd as he spotted the three 
apprentices dashing in after their mentors. Fox dung! 1 
should have expected that! 

Forgetting Fury, Graystripe fought his way through the 
grappling cats toward the apprentices, but by the time he 
reached the end of the tunnel, Rainpaw and Sootpaw had 
disappeared. The only apprentice he could spot was 
Sorrelpaw, who was facing up to a hulking tabby tom three 


times her size. 

Shes going to get shredded! 

Grabbing Sorrelpaw by the scruff, Graystripe pulled her 
away and hissed at the tabby tom until he turned and 
vanished into the crowd. 

Graystripe looked down at Sorrelpaw and gave her a not- 
so-gentle shake. “Nursery! Now!” he snarled. 

The little tortoiseshell glared up at him defiantly. “I want 
to fight! I want to protect my Clan!” 

I havent got time for this! “You can protect your Clan by 
guarding the kits,” Graystripe ordered. 

Sorrelpaw’s eyes widened. “Yes! I can do that.” 

Graystripe released her, giving her a shove in the right 
direction, and she scurried off, skirting the edge of the 
battle. 

By now Graystripe had lost sight of Fury entirely. 
Looking for her, he spotted a flash of ginger fur racing past 
him, and recognized Brick, one of the cats Gremlin had 
described to him. Graystripe focused on the bare patch on 
Brick’s back; Gremlin had told him it came from an old injury, 
not properly healed. Thats his weak spot. 

Graystripe pelted after Brick and sprang up onto his 
back, digging his claws into the bare patch. The BloodClan 
tom let out an earsplitting screech and collapsed to the 
ground; Graystripe landed on top of him and started 
slashing at his spine with his claws. 


Brick yowled in pain, kicking and thrashing in a 
desperate attempt to wriggle free. At last he managed to 
throw Graystripe off, though Graystripe was pleased to see 
that the patch on his back was much bigger now, and blood 
was trickling fromthe claw marks. 

Brick faced up to him with another cat by his side, a tom 
whose head and neck swung around menacingly in a weird 
studded collar. That must be Snipe, Graystripe thought. 
Gremlin said he always goes for the throat. 

With the fight raging around them, Graystripe braced 
himself nervously, tucking in his chin as the two cats 
advanced on himside by side. 

“Call yourself a leader?” Snipe mocked him. 

“Yeah, you’re all alone,’ Brick added. “Not a single 
warrior here to help you.” 

“He’s not alone!” The furious meow came from behind 
Graystripe as Brambleclaw leaped past him and threw himself 
at the two BloodClan cats without a trace of fear or 
hesitation. He began cuffing Snipe around the ears with 
both forepaws, ducking and thrusting to put his opponent 
off balance. Graystripe recognized a move that his mentor, 
Firestar, must have taught him. 

Hes going to be a great ThunderClan warrior, 
Graystripe thought. He'll get better with each passing 
battle—though I hope we dont have too many more of 
those! 


But Graystripe took only a couple of heartbeats to 
admire Brambleclaw’s fighting technique before throwing 
himself back into the conflict. He spotted Frostfur by a flash 
of her white pelt, and realized that the dawn-patrol cats had 
retumed too. Ashfur was fighting fiercely beside Mousefur, 
while Goldenflower was chasing a shrieking BloodClan tom 
across the camp. 

Then Graystripe noticed Gremlin slinking around close to 
the edge of the camp, half concealed by the long grass and 
undergrowth. Cinderpelt was padding softly behind her. But 
his relief at seeing the BloodClan she-cat making her escape 
was short-lived. 

Before Gremlin could reach the gorse tunnel and the 
safety of the forest beyond, a furious screech rang out 
across the camp. Graystripe spun around to see Fury 
perched on top of the Highrock, her enraged gaze trained on 
the fleeing queen. A pulse of anger throbbed through him at 
seeing the BloodClan she-cat there, in the place that 
belonged to Firestar. 

“Traitor!” Fury growled. “Snake! Ice! Stop her!” 

Two black-and-white toms broke away from the fight and 
raced toward Gremlin, who tried to run away from them and 
beat them to the tunnel. But she was too slow, heavy with 
her kits. Ice ran ahead of her and blocked her way, while 
Snake barreled into her side, carrying her off her paws, and 
held her down. Cinderpelt sprang forward to try to help the 


BloodClan queen, but another BloodClan tom pushed her 
away and stood in front of her with his teeth bared. 

“Bring her to me,” Fury ordered. 

Snake, Graystripe thought, as he watched the powerful 
tom with his paws planted on Gremlin’s neck and her hind 
legs. A chill ran through him. /s that what StarClan meant 
when they told me to beware the snakes bite? 

Ice joined Snake, and together the BloodClan cats 
hauled Gremlin to her paws and forced her through the knots 
of still-battling cats toward the Highrock. For all his 
foreboding, Graystripe began struggling toward her, but 
before he could get anywhere near, Scraps leaped up from 
where he had Dustpelt pinned down, and thrust his way 
through the crowd to his sister’s side. 

“Leave her alone!” he snarled, trying to shoulder Snake 
away. 

Both Ice and Snake rounded on him. “Do you really want 
to do this? Really?” Ice demanded. 

“She’s not a traitor!” Scraps insisted, gazing up at Fury 
on the Highrock. “She just doesn’t want to fight—she wants 
to protect her kits.” 

It was Snake who replied, “She knows the rules. She 
would have to give up her kits once they were born, anyway. 
The fact that she cares so much for them that she would 
betray us in battle proves that she is not one ofus ... she is 
not a true BloodClan cat.” 


“And if you’re so determined to protect her,’ Fury 
sneered at Scraps, “the same could be said of you.” She 
turned her gaze toward Ice and Snake, her meaning clear in 
her one malignant eye. 

At the signal, both Snake and Ice tumed on Scraps, 
lashing out at him with outstretched claws. Gremlin tried to 
help him, batting with all her strength at Snake’s 
hindquarters, but Snake contemptuously thrust her away 
with one hind leg. 

“No!” Scraps yowled at her, while struggling to fight off 
both BloodClan cats at once. “Get out of here!” 

Graystripe was still fighting his way through the crowd 
of tussling cats, trying to reach Scraps's side. But he 
couldn't get there in time. Just as he broke free and hurled 
himself at Snake, Scraps’s legs gave way and he collapsed. 
Knocking Snake aside with a blow from each of his 
forepaws, Graystripe could only watch in horror as blood 
poured out froma gash in Scraps’s neck and the light faded 
from his eyes. Gremlin let out a high-pitched wail of grief. 

Graystripe stooped over Snake, digging his claws into 
the BloodClan tom’s shoulders and baring his teeth to sink 
them into Snake’s throat and end his life. But a yowl from 
Fury halted him before he struck. “Stop!” 

Looking up, Graystripe saw Gremlin in front of him, 
gripped by two huge BloodClan cats. Her green eyes were 
full of misery, her gaze fixed on her brother’s body. The 


nearby cats, ThunderClan and BloodClan, realized that 
something important was happening, and paused in their 
fighting. A pool of silence spread out from the Highrock 
where Fury stood, rippling out to the edges of the camp, 
until every cat was frozen in place, staring up at the 
BloodClan she-cat. 

“Well?” Fury’s voice was silky with menace. “Kill Snake 
and the traitor dies. Is that what you want, ThunderClan 
leader?” 


CHAPTER 27 


Se 


— Then — 


“Keep fighting!” Ashfur called out, as Graystripe stood 
unmoving. “We have to drive BloodClan out.” 

One or two more of the ThunderClan warriors growled 
their agreement, but Graystripe couldn't bring himself to tear 
Snake’s throat open if, in doing that, he would ensure 
Gremlins death. Ignoring the angry, muttering yowls from 
his own Clan, he sheathed his claws and stepped back, 
allowing Snake to scramble to his paws. 

“Fury,” he began, gazing up at the BloodClan leader on 
the Highrock, “there’s no way that BloodClan can win this 
fight. We have too many warriors, and all of us are trained. If 
you continue, you’re condemning your Clanmates—if that’s 
what you call them—to death. Is that what you really want? 
Don’t you have any sympathy for the cats who followed 
you here and suffered wounds for it? Don’t you care about 
their safety?” 

Fury’s expression was as hard as stone. “Pm doing my 
best for their safety by taking this territory for BloodClan,” 
she replied. 

Graystripe huffed out his breath in frustration. “What 
good is having territory if most, or even all, of your 


Clanmates have died in the taking of it?” he asked. 

“IPI be worth it to make sure / survive,” Fury snarled. 
“ГИ fight on until I have no cats left to back me up.” 

In StarClans name, how can I ever reason with a cat 
like this? Graystripe wondered. And how could any cat 
follow her? 

Then, in the frozen silence that followed Fury’s words, 
he heard the sound of dripping blood. Glancing around, 
tasting the air, he saw that Fury had taken a severe wound in 
the fight: A deep gash ran along her side. Blood was still 
oozing from it, falling onto the Highrock. 

Graystripe glanced across at Cinderpelt, who had picked 
her way through the crowd of cats to stand beside Gremlin, 
and angled his ears toward the BloodClan leader. Cinderpelt 
took a look, then turned back to Graystripe with such a 
concerned expression that he was sure the wound was as 
dangerous as it seemed. 

I’ve never been so happy to see a cat injured! Graystripe 
thought. That might give me a way of reasoning with her. 

Graystripe padded closer to the Highrock, looking up at 
Fury. “That’s a bad wound you have there,” he remarked. 

Fury glanced down at herself with a look of surprise, as 
if she had only just noticed the wound. Graystripe saw her 
wince, as the pain hit her for the first time. 

“T can tell it’s serious,’ Graystripe continued. “And 
you’ve been in enough fights to know what happens to cats 


who bleed as much as that. If the wound goes untreated, 
they usually die.” 

“The bleeding will stop soon, mange-pelt!” Fury snarled, 
though Graystripe thought she didn’t sound convinced. 

“Even if it does,” he told her, “the wound is likely to get 
infected. And if that happens, you’ll be in serious pain.” 

Now the BloodClan leader looked even more doubtful. 
“Tm tougher than any scratch,” she insisted. 

“Graystripe is right,” Cinderpelt put in, coming to stand 
by his side. “I’m the ThunderClan medicine cat, and I know 
what I’m talking about. Infection isn’t the same as just being 
cut. If that wound gets infected, it will bring pain inside your 
body that you can’t lick away or sleep off. But we can stop 
the bleeding, and give you some herbs to fight off 
infection.” 

Graystripe nodded in agreement. “Our medicine cat is 
right. ThunderClan can treat you and help you to get better. 
You don’t have to die fromthis wound.” 

Their words had clearly given Fury something to think 
about. She looked away for a moment, her gaze thoughtful. 
She pawed at the Highrock beneath her feet, seeming 
conflicted, and Graystripe’s heart sped up in anticipation. 
But just as he began to believe she might accept their offer, 
she met his gaze again, shaking her head. “You’re just trying 
to scare me,” she declared. “I’m a BloodClan cat, and 
BloodClan is the toughest Clan in the forest. A little scratch 


won’t stop—” Fury’s speech cut off as a wave of pain 
seemed to wash over her. 

Standing beside Graystripe, Cinderpelt glanced toward 
him, a questioning look in her eyes. He knew she was 
silently asking him if she should act as a medicine cat to 
their enemy. 

For a moment, Graystripe didn’t reply; he was wrestling 
with his conscience, his kindness facing off against his 
caution. The most ruthless part of his brain was telling him 
that he should wait out this moment. The worst that could 
happen was that an enemy—a vicious, pitiless enemy—of 
ThunderClan would die. And it would be a just death, he 
told himself. Fury had brought such chaos and grief to 
ThunderClan that he knew StarClan would not punish him, 
nor his Clanmates, if she were to perish today. 

But he had to give her a chance. 

“You can say anything you want,” he meowed to Fury, 
doing his best to keep his voice level. “But that won’t 
change the fact that you will soon die. ThunderClan is 
willing to help you, but you will have to swear that 
BloodClan will leave us alone for good.” 

“ГИ never do that!” Fury snarled. “I never back down in 
the face of any cat’s threats. I'm a strong and powerful 
leader! I take what I want, when I want, and if you 
ThunderClan cats think you’re just going to—” 

Fury couldn’t continue as another wave of pain washed 


over her, fiercer than the last. Her legs shook, and she almost 
lost her balance on top of the Highrock. A look of fear 
spread across her face, and her gaze flicked to the other 
BloodClan cats. Graystripe could see that not one of them 
made a move to go to their leader’s side. None of them 
seemed at all concerned by her wounded state. 

After all, shes made clear that shes not concerned 
about them. 

As she took this in, Fury’s shoulders sagged as if she 
was overcome by weariness. She had to be well aware that 
even if she survived her injury, her followers were no longer 
united behind her. The battle was over. 

ThunderClan had won. 

Fury half slipped, half scrambled down from the 
Highrock and collapsed to the ground, not even trying to 
hide her injury any longer. Cinderpelt took a pace forward, 
but Graystripe stretched out his tail to block her. 

“No,” he growled. “She has to ask for our help. And she 
has to promise in front of all these cats that she will take 
BloodClan far away from here and never attack ThunderClan 
again.” 

Fury raised her head and glared up at Graystripe, hatred 
in her eyes. “Allright, you flea-ridden excuse for a cat,” she 
snarled. “Have it your own way.” 

“Do you promise?” 

“Yes,” Fury replied. “I promise.” 


Later, as the last rays of sunlight dipped below the tree 
line, Graystripe headed across the camp toward the medicine 
cat’s den. He had spoken to Cinderpelt earlier, while she had 
been patching up the wounds of the ThunderClan warriors; 
she’d told him that she had applied a poultice of marigold 
and cobweb to Fury’s wound, and had given her poppy 
seeds so that she could sleep. 

After Fury had agreed to Graystripe’s demands, the rest 
of BloodClan had deserted their leader, scattering in all 
directions. Graystripe had sent out the least injured warriors 
to make sure that they left the territory. He couldn’t be 
entirely sure that they would never come back, but he hoped 
that they had been humiliated enough by their defeat to 
leave ThunderClan alone in the future. In any case, with 
their leader gone, they weren’t an organized fighting force 
any longer. 

Now, when Graystripe thrust his way through the ferns, 
he found Fury sitting up, gulping down the last few 
mouthfuls ofa vole. “How do you feel?” he asked her. 

“Pm fine,” Fury replied, still with a hostile glare. “I’m just 
about to leave, so you do not have to go to the bother of 
kicking me out.” 

“We don’t kick out any cat in need,” Graystripe 
responded mildly. “Cinderpelt, is she fit to go?” 

The medicine cat turned away from the heap of herbs 
she was sorting. “Yes, just about,” she meowed. “But, Fury, 


if the wound opens up again, or if it starts to look red and 
angry, you should come back to see me again.” 

At first, Fury’s only reply was a grunt. She rose to her 
paws and padded out of the den, tossing a terse “Thanks” 
over her shoulder at Cinderpelt as she went. 

“Don’t forget what you promised,” Graystripe reminded 
her, following her out into the camp. He halted in front of 
Fury, forcing her to stop. “You’ll leave ThunderClan alone 
from now on.” 

“Don’t worry.” Fury was clearly making an effort to 
sound confident. “I won’t be coming back to this flea-ridden 
territory. In fact, ГЇЇ probably leave the forest altogether.” 

I hope you do just that, Graystripe thought as he 
watched the BloodClan cat pad painfully across the camp 
and disappear into the gorse tunnel. Several cats beside the 
fresh-kill pile turned their heads to follow her progress; 
Ferncloud and Brightheart narrowed their eyes into a baleful 
glare as she went. No cat moved or taunted her, but the force 
of their hostility was so strong Graystripe could almost taste 
it. 

Good riddance! he thought, thankful to see his Clan 
united. If I never see you again, Fury, it'll be too soon. 

Taking a deep breath, Graystripe finally let go of all the 
nervous tension he had been tamping down from before the 
battle until now. It flowed through his body in a rush, so 
fierce and powerful that he felt as ifhe could throw up. 


Allat once, Graystripe realized how easily he could have 
lost ThunderClan. Firestar might have come home to an 
empty camp—or, worse, walked right into BloodClan’s new 
territory, without any idea that he was now the intruder. 
BloodClan would have killed him, and he would never have 
understood what had happened. But we avoided that, 
Graystripe thought thankfully. Everything 5 okay. 

As the wave of emotions ebbed, Graystripe felt so 
exhausted that his legs began to tremble, and he thought 
they might collapse beneath himas he headed for his den. 

Before he reached it, he spotted Dustpelt, Cloudtail, and 
Thornclaw clustered together near the fresh-kill pile, with 
their three apprentices huddled in front of them, looking up 
with wide, scared eyes at their mentors. 

Ah, yes, the apprentices ..., Graystripe thought, veering 
in their direction. 

As he approached, he heard Cloudtail meow, “I think a 
moon of tick duty would be about right, don’t you?” 

“At least,” Thornclaw agreed. “For a start.” 

“And no more hunting patrols until every scrap of soiled 
bedding in this camp has been taken out and replaced with 
fresh,” Dustpelt added. 

To Graystripe’s relief, none of the apprentices looked 
badly injured. Rainpaw was licking one paw as if it had been 
hurt, and Sootpaw had a cobweb patch on his shoulder, but 
they were otherwise unscathed. 


“Okay, off to your nests,” Thornclaw ordered. 

“But we haven’t eaten!” 

“We're hungry!” 

“We won’t be able to sleep now.” 

“Then you can lie awake and think about what happens 
to apprentices who disobey orders,” Dustpelt retorted 
unsympathetically. 

The three apprentices scurried off. As they passed 
Graystripe on their way to their den, he heard Rainpaw 
mutter, “It was worth it.” 

Sorrelpaw gave an excited little skip. “It was awesome!” 

Graystripe shook his head, stifling amusement. The 
young cats were being rightly punished, but he had to 
admire their courage and their dedication to their Clan. It 
reminded him of his apprentice days, alongside Firestar. Was 
there anything we wouldnt have done to impress the older 
warriors? 

Heading for the warriors’ den, Graystripe noticed that a 
group of his Clanmates was waiting outside, quickly joined 
by the three mentors. Graystripe braced himself, fully 
expecting that they would blame him for letting the rogue 
leader go, for trusting her to keep her promise that she was 
no longer a threat. 

As he halted in front of the group, Graystripe was faced 
with a long, awkward silence. Ifyou те going to yowl at me, 
lets get it over with. 


Finally, it was Mousefur who spoke. “Well done, 
Graystripe,” she meowed loudly. “You did a great job.” 

As Graystripe stood still in utter astonishment, the rest 
of his Clanmates began to crowd around him. 

“Yes, you had us worried for a while there,” Thornclaw 
declared. “But you made the right choice.” 

“As long as Fury doesn’t round those mange-pelts up 
again and come back,” Dustpelt put in. “But even if she 
does, we’ll be ready.” 

Brackenfur pressed forward until he stood face-to-face 
with Graystripe, and dipped his head respectfully. “I’m sorry 
I got angry with you, Graystripe, when you decided to trust 
Gremlin,” he meowed. “You were right and I was wrong.” 

The golden-brown tom looked so miserable that any last 
traces of resentment Graystripe might have felt were swept 
away. He leaned forward to touch noses with Brackenfur. 
“That’s okay. I know what I did was risky. You were right to 
tell me what you felt.” 

Relief flooded into Brackenfur’s amber eyes. “Thanks, 
Graystripe.” 

Standing beside him, Ashfur scuffled his forepaws in the 
earth of the camp floor. “I guess that goes for me, too.” 

Well, its not exactly an apology, Graystripe thought. But 
I suppose it will have to do. “It’s okay, Ashfur,” he meowed. 

Speckletail padded up and touched her nose to 
Graystripe’s ear. “You’ve proven yourself a worthy deputy,” 


she told him. “And I think I speak for every cat when I say 
that when Firestar joins StarClan—and let’s hope that day is 
far off—ThunderClan will be in safe paws with you as its 
new leader.” 

A chorus of agreement met the elder’s words. Graystripe 
blinked happily, half embarrassed by his Clanmates’ praise, 
half terrified by the prospect Speckletail had opened up for 
him. In dealing with BloodClan, he thought, he had 
understood for the first time what Clan leaders had to go 
through. 

He had devised the battle plan. He should have foreseen 
that the apprentices would come back, and if they had been 
killed, it would have been his fault. He had needed to find 
the best way to ensure the safety of the elders, and the kits 
in the nursery. 

And this was just one incident, Graystripe thought. If 1 
were leader I would have to make these important 
decisions all the time. 

It was clear to him, he didn’t want all that responsibility. 


The next morning, as Graystripe padded across the 
clearing, he saw with satisfaction that his Clanmates were 
busy going about their duties: Ashfur leading a hunting 
patrol back into camp, all four warriors laden with prey; 
Brackenfur and Dustpelt repairing the warriors’ den where 
bramble tendrils had been torn out in the battle; the three 
apprentices staggering away from the elders’ den under the 


weight of massive balls of soiled moss. 

Outside the nursery, Ferncloud and Brightheart were 
basking in a patch of sunlight, watching Shrewkit and 
Spiderkit play fighting in front of them. 

“Get out, BloodClan mange-pelt!” Shrewkit squealed. 

“No!” Spiderkit unsheathed tiny claws. “This territory is 
mine!” 

Whitekit, whose eyes were only just open, was watching 
them wonderingly, while Brightheart kept her tail curled 
protectively around her, in case she decided to join the 
bigger kits in their rough play. 

Graystripe nodded a greeting to the two queens and was 
about to slip inside the nursery when he saw Cinderpelt 
trotting toward him, grasping a bit of chervil root in her jaws. 
“On your way to see Gremlin?” he asked. 

Cinderpelt nodded. “She’s not far off from kitting,” she 
mumbled around the root. 

“Before you do, there’s something I want to discuss with 
you,” Graystripe meowed. 

The medicine cat’s blue eyes narrowed a little in irritation 
as she set the root down on the ground. “Okay, but make it 
quick,” she responded. “Gremlin needs me.” 

“Its just . . . Cinderpelt, I keep thinking about what 
StarClan told you at the Moonstone. ‘Like a three-headed 
snake, many paths split off into the forest.’ They said I must 
walk my own path, but ‘beware the snake’s bite.’ Now that 


it’s all over, what do you think they meant? Were they telling 
me to make the deal with Gremlin, or warning against it?” 

Cinderpelt thought for a moment, turning her head to 
give her shoulder a few long, slow licks. “I told you at the 
time that I don’t think they were telling you anything,” she 
replied eventually. “Except that it was up to you to decide 
what to do.” 

“So helpful!” Graystripe muttered. 

“But that’s how StarClan works,” Cinderpelt explained. 
“If they told every Clan leader, or even every medicine cat, 
what to do in a crisis, then the warrior Clans wouldn’t be 
independent anymore. We’d be like StarClan’s apprentices, 
and they’d be our mentors. Would you or any cat really 
want that?” 

Graystripe heaved a massive sigh. “I guess not,” he 
admitted. “But it would surely be easier! And what about the 
second part of what they told you?” he went on rapidly, as 
Cinderpelt bent her head to pick up her chervil root again. 
““Beware the snake’s bite.’ That has to refer to Snake the 
BloodClan warrior, right?” 

“T should think so,” Cinderpelt agreed. “It sounds like 
they were telling you to avoid Snake. Maybe he was the 
BloodClan warrior destined to kill you, ifthe battle had gone 
differently.” 

Graystripe nodded, though he wasn’t entirely satisfied. 
“T didn’t know which cat was Snake,” he murmured, half to 


himself. “So how could I have avoided him? I only noticed 
him when Fury told him to grab Gremlin. And after that... 
Cinderpelt!” he exclaimed suddenly. “Remember the end of 
the battle, when I was crouching over Snake, ready to tear 
his throat out? What if StarClan was warning me to beware 
biting Snake?” 

Cinderpelt’s blue eyes widened in sudden 
understanding. “Graystripe, I think you might be right,” she 
meowed. “If you had killed Snake, then the BloodClan cats 
would have killed Gremlin, and the battle would have 
continued. And who knows what the result might have 
been?” 

A shiver passed through Graystripe from the tips of his 
ears to the ends of his claws. “I came so close... ,” he 
whispered. “I wanted to kill him.” 

“But you didn t kill him,” Cinderpelt reminded him. “You 
chose mercy, for Snake and for Gremlin. And, in the end, for 
Fury. It was the right choice. BloodClan is gone, and the 
forest is peaceful again.” She let out a little mrrow of 
laughter. “Graystripe, you’re becoming wise enough to be a 
Clan leader!” 

“I hope not!” Graystripe meowed fervently. “Firestar 
can’t get home soon enough for me.” 

“And think of the story you”ll have to tell him!” 
Cinderpelt flicked his ear with her tail. “Come on, let’s go and 
see Gremlin.” 


Inside the nursery, the pregnant she-cat was lying 
stretched out on the thick, mossy bedding. Cinderpelt gave 
her the chervil root to chew, then examined her, sniffing her 
carefully from head to tail and feeling her distended belly 
gently with her paws. Graystripe felt a stab of uneasiness as 
he saw his medicine cat’s eyes widen in concern, and she 
moved her paws back to check part of Gremlin’s belly for a 
second time. 

“How are you feeling, Gremlin?” Graystripe asked. 

The she-cat let out a long sigh. “I’m fine,” she replied 
listlessly. 

Graystripe could see that she was not fine. At dawn she 
had led the Clan in burying her brother, and now she seemed 
to be filled with a deep sadness. Graystripe wished he could 
do something to help her, but all he could do was renew his 
promise. 

“You’re safe here in ThunderClan. And after a few days, 
you'll be feeling stronger again.” 

Gremlin blinked uncertainly. “I’m grateful to you for 
keeping your part of the bargain,” she began. “You’re an 
honorable cat, Graystripe.” 

“You deserve your place here,” Graystripe murmured, in 
between embarrassed licks of his chest fur. 

“But now that Scraps is gone,” Gremlin continued with a 
sigh, “everything seems different to me. I know that being in 
a Clan is a good thing for a pregnant cat, but I’m feeling 


really tense at the thought of fighting all the time. That 
seems to be your way of life, out here in the wild. 
ThunderClan is safer than BloodClan—but how safe?” 

“We don’t fight a// the time,” Graystripe protested. 

“Throughout this war between ThunderClan and 
BloodClan,” Gremlin went on, her green eyes wide with 
distress, “all Гуе been able to think about is my unborn kits. 
That’s not the BloodClan way, but it’s been my way, ever 
since I found out I was pregnant. I’m terrified at the thought 
of my kits’ lives being threatened. Their safety is the only 
thing that matters to me now—and I don’t know if 
ThunderClan is safe enough for a new family.” 

“So what are you going to do?” Cinderpelt asked gently. 

Gremlin hesitated, taking a deep breath before she 
replied. “I never thought Pd say this, but... I think Гт 
going to try my luck with some Twolegs.” 

Graystripe gaped in shock. “You want to be a kittypet?” 

“Pll be sorry to give up my freedom,” Gremlin admitted. 
“But ГЇЇ welcome the security and help with my kitting, and 
Scraps isn’t here anymore to refuse.” 

“But we'll help with your kitting,” Cinderpelt promised. 
“And what if the Twolegs take your kits away after they’re 
bom?” 

“That would hurt,” Gremlin admitted. “But if they were 
given to other Twolegs, I would at least be certain that they 
were safe, that they were going to be looked after. Besides, 


it’s more complicated than that,” she continued. “I know that 
Fury backed down at the end of the battle, and she probably 
will honor her promise to leave ThunderClan alone, but she 
knows I helped you. I’m afraid that if my path should cross 
with hers in the future, she’ll just kill me for betraying 
BloodClan. She’s that sort of hateful, vengeful cat. And if 
she finds me”—her voice shook a little—‘‘she’ll go after my 
kits too. And I can’t bear to think about that. They’re the 
only kin Ihave left.” 

Her words saddened Graystripe, but he could see her 
point. For a moment he wondered whether he had been right 
to let Cinderpelt treat Fury and save her life. But then he 
pushed the thought away. What sort of leader would just 
stand by and watch as another cat died—even a cat like 
Fury? 

“We’ll be sorry to lose you,” he meowed, “and we’ll 
always be grateful to you for what you did for us.” 

“Таза the right thing,” Gremlin responded. “I don’t need 
gratitude for that.” 

Cinderpelt was looking more and more unhappy as 
Gremlin explained her plans. Now she stroked her paw over 
the she-cat’s pregnant belly again. 

“I wish you would rethink this,” she mewed. “Or at least 
stay here until the kits come. Гуе examined you, and as I 
told you before, I’m pretty sure one of the kits is coming 
paws first. It'll be better for you to stay close to my den. If 


you still want to leave, you can do it when the kits are 
weaned.” 

Gremlin shook her head. “No, this is the right thing for 
me. And I hear that Twolegs have the best herbs, so I’m sure 
Pllbe fine.” 

Cinderpelt looked only slightly reassured. “You’d better 
hope you find some Twolegs quickly,” she warned Gremlin. 
“And remember, you’ll need to find chervil root. I know you 
know what it looks like. You have to get some and keep 
chewing it.” 

Gremlin rose to her paws. “ГЇЇ remember,” she meowed. 
“And thank you for everything you’ve done for me, 
Cinderpelt. For us.” With a respectful dip of her head to the 
medicine cat, she headed out of the nursery. 

Graystripe followed her and padded by her side toward 
the gorse tunnel. He was sad to see her go; if she did 
become a kittypet in the Twolegplace, who knew where she 
would end up? The Twolegplace was huge, and it was 
unlikely that he would ever see her again. He noticed 
Brackenfur and Dustpelt watching curiously as they passed, 
and thought he could detect a trace of regret in their eyes. 

Now that they know Gremlin kept her promise, maybe 
they were just starting to come around to the thought of 
having her as a Clanmate. 

At the entrance to the tunnel, Gremlin paused and let her 
gaze travel around the camp. Then she tumed back to 


Graystripe. “I’m sorry to leave,” she told him, “but I really do 
think it’s best.” 

“ThunderClan will always be in your debt,” Graystripe 
responded. “I wish you and your kits the long, happy life 
you deserve. And if you ever need help with anything, 
please come back. I promise—all you have to do is ask.” 


CHAPTER 28 


Se 


— Now — 


Graystripe roamed through the Twoleg den, searching for 
any possible way out that he might have missed the first or 
second or third times he’d made the same circuit. But he 
couldn't find any gaps big enough to let a cat through. 
Night had fallen, and he was no nearer escaping from his 
prison. 

The fetid air seemed to soak into his pelt, until he felt he 
would never be clean again. His belly was bawling with 
hunger, for although the Twoleg had given her cats more 
food, Graystripe hadn’t been able to bring himself to fight 
the other trapped cats for a share of the miserable scraps 
they were offered. 

Pacing back and forth, frustrated, he spotted Daffodil 
curled up in her comer, with Petunia sitting beside her, 
gently grooming the sick cat’s fur. Graystripe padded up to 
them. 

“How are you feeling?” he asked Daffodil. 

The orange-and-white she-cat heaved a little sigh. “ГЇЇ 
be fine,” she mewed in a flat, hopeless voice. 

That was so obviously untrue that it made Graystripe 
want to find a way to cheer her up. “I’ve seen your mate, 


Fang—I mean, Honeysuckle,” he told her. “He came back for 
you.” 

Daffodil raised her head, gazing at him. Her eyes were 
beautiful, a vibrant blue, her look now a mixture of disbelief 
and hope. “Really?” she whispered. “Where is he?” 

Graystripe wasn’t sure. He hadn’t seen Fang since his 
failed attempt to prop open the door, though he’d peered out 
the broken panel a few times. He couldn’t believe that the 
gray tomhad given up and gone away, when he had been so 
determined to find an escape route. I suppose he might have 
gone to hunt, Graystripe thought anxiously. / hope nothing 
has happened to him. 

“He’s not far away,” he assured Daffodil. “We’re trying 
to find a way of getting you out of here—all of you.” 

He caught a dubious look from Petunia, as if she wanted 
to say, Good luck with that, but she remained silent, only 
bending her head to give Daffodil an affectionate lick around 
the ears. 

“Why don’t you get some sleep?” she mewed after a 
moment. “Then you’ll be strong and ready when 
Honeysuckle retums.” 

“Maybe I will,” Daffodil responded. Laying her head 
down on her paws, she closed her eyes and folded her tail 
over her nose. 

Graystripe gave Petunia a nod of respect and softly 
padded away. He was impressed by the old she-cat, who 


was managing to care so well for Daffodil, even though she 
was suffering as much as all the other denmates. 

Springing up onto a windowsill, Graystripe leaned all his 
weight against the clearstone in a desperate effort to force it 
open. But however hard he pushed, the window wouldn’t 
budge, even though he could feel a faint trickle of air from 
the outside. He laid his muzzle close to it, sniffing up the 
cool, fresh flow, with a faint tang of the growing things in 
the forest. 

On the other side of the window, he could see the 
overgrown garden, the Thunderpath, and the woodland 
beyond, quiet under the moonlight. His paws ached for the 
touch of grass, and he longed to feel the wind blowing 
through his fur. 

How can any cat stand to live as a kittypet? he asked 
himself, flexing his claws in frustration as he remembered his 
own stay in a Twoleg den. Getting to see the outside like 
this, but not to be out there? It’ the worst torture. 

Graystripe scanned the garden carefully, but he still 
couldn’t see any sign of Fang, and stuck here in the stench 
of the den, there was no hope of picking up his scent. His 
worries for the gray tom’s safety increased; he refused to 
believe that Fang would deliberately abandon his denmates, 
especially Daffodil. 

Giving up on opening the window, he tumed back to 
scan the room yet another time. He was almost convinced it 


would be futile, when he spotted something that made the 
fur on his shoulders begin to rise. The floor here was made 
of flat wooden branches, unlike the rest of the house, where 
the floors were covered with pelts. And in the middle, there 
was one place where the surface looked uneven, as if a 
single branch was off balance, poking up above the rest. 

Hope was pulsing inside Graystripe as he sprang down 
from the windowsill and raced over to the uneven spot. 
When he thrust his forepaws down on the branch, he felt 
slight movement in it: He could rock it back and forth. Only 
by a claw’s breadth, but it was a start. 

Crouching, Graystripe slid his claws down the side of the 
branch and tugged at it. If he could only pull it up, it would 
leave a hole big enough for the trapped cats to escape. But 
though he managed to raise it a little, it was too heavy and 
awkward for him to lift it allthe way out. 

“Honestly!” he hissed. “You would think some of these 
useless cats could come and help.” 

“Hey, not so much with the “useless.”” An indignant 
voice spoke behind Graystripe, and he turned to see Lily, the 
bright orange tabby. “Do you think we haven’t tried that, 
too?” she continued. “You don’t even know how long it’s 
been since we gave up trying to escape.” 

Looking more closely at the branch, Graystripe could 
make out the marks of claws along its edge, and he realized 
that Lily was right. “I’m sorry,” he meowed. “But we cant 


999 


give up, or we’ll all die in here.” 

Lily simply shrugged and padded off into a comer of the 
room. 

Looking around at the rest of the trapped cats, 
Graystripe saw once again their sickness, hunger, and 
despair. Even if they did have the desire to escape, they 
were all so beaten down by what they had suffered as 
kittypets, shut away in this Twoleg den, that it wasn’t 
surprising they had given up. 

Sinking back on his hindquarters, Graystripe tried to 
focus his thoughts on StarClan. If they were still out there, 
surely now was a desperate enough time for them to send 
their guidance? Please help us, he prayed. Firestar, if you 
can see те now, please ... His entreaty trailed off as he 
remembered the terrifying moment in the cavern of the 
Moonstone when StarClan had either remained silent and 
absent, or had sent the lightning bolt to show him just how 
angry they were. 

If Firestar had been there, I know he would have helped 
me. Hes truly gone, he thought, struggling with the savage 
pain of loss. Г'т on my own. 

Then Graystripe forced himself to thrust the despairing 
thoughts away. He tried his hardest to hope that he had not 
been abandoned by StarClan, that somehow they would 
come through for him, and for all the Clans. 

Please, StarClan, if you can still hear те... we need 


your help. 

But no answer came to his prayer. Not even a bolt of 
lightning to strike the Twoleg den and open up a way. 
Graystripe flopped down with his nose on his paws and 
closed his eyes, wondering if he should never have left 
ThunderClan in the first place. 

Iwas a warrior a deputy—I was even Clan leader for a 
little while. Am I really going to end up like this? 

Then Graystripe heard a faint scratching sound. Looking 
up, he realized it was coming from the window; he could see 
vague shapes moving behind the glass. A muffled voice was 
calling from the outside. “Graystripe! Graystripe!” 

Its Fang! Thank StarClan hes okay! 

Graystripe jumped back onto the windowsill and saw 
Fang pressing himself against the glass from the other side. 
Dawn was already breaking, and in the pale light, Graystripe 
caught sight of Monkeystar and the rest of WarriorClan in 
the garden. 

“I brought help!” Fang called, while the WarriorClan 
kittypets jumped up and down with excitement. 

“It’s no use,” Graystripe yowled in response. “Even with 
more cats, we can never break through the glass and reach 
each other.” He let out a frustrated growl. “Believe me, I’ve 
tried, and there’s no way out.” 

Then, as he turned away from the window, Graystripe’s 
gaze fell on the loose branch that he had tried to pry up 


earlier. He remembered how the den was raised up on square 
rocks, leaving a narrow space undemeath. 

“Fang!” he exclaimed, raising his voice to be heard 
through the window. “There’s a place here where the floor is 
loose. If you crawl under the den, you might be able to shift 
it.” 

“I know about that,” Fang responded, his expression 
doubtful. “We never managed to lift it.” 

“Not from inside, no—but no cat has tried pushing it 
from underneath,” Graystripe told him. “It’s worth a try.” 

Fang’s eyes suddenly lit with optimism. He spun around 
eagerly and vanished under the den. The WarriorClan 
kittypets scurried after him. 

Graystripe leaped down from the windowsill and crossed 
the floor to the loose branch, setting his paws down as 
heavily as he could so that Fang could follow him from the 
outside. 

“Are you there, Fang?” he called. 

“Right here,” the gray tom’s voice came back. “I think we 
can work the branch loose, but you’ll need to lift it from 
inside at the same time.” 

“Okay.” 

A few moments later Graystripe saw the branch lift 
slightly. He tried to thrust his paw underneath it, but the gap 
was too narrow, and he had to draw back sharply to avoid 
being crushed as the branch settled into place again. 


“Push harder!” he meowed. 

This time the branch lifted a little higher, and Graystripe 
managed to fit his forepaws underneath it, clawing 
vigorously at the edge in his efforts to pull it up. “Keep 
pushing!” he panted. 

As he struggled with the branch, he could hear 
enthusiastic mews from WarriorClan, who were helping Fang 
to push from below. 

“Clawwhistle, take your tail out of my ear!” 

“Bugeater, we need you down at this end!” 

“When I say ‘three,’ heave!” 

Graystripe winced as he drove one of his claws too hard 
into the branch, and wrenched it out as he tried to free 
himself. His pads were scratched, too, and he thought 
regretfully that the nearest medicine cat was the Tribe’s 
Healer, in the mountains. But he was so excited to be almost 
free that he barely felt the pain. 

Some of the trapped cats padded over to see what 
Graystripe was doing. 

“Have you found a way out?” a black-and-white she-cat 
asked, then turned and raised her voice to the rest of her 
denmates. “Hey, he’s found a way out!” 

More cats crowded around, purring with excitement as 
they realized Graystripe really had found an escape route. 

“Can we help?” 

“Tellus what to do!” 


Graystripe looked around at the trapped kittypets. It 
thrilled him to see something that had been missing from 
their eyes this whole time: hope. 

“Spread out along the branch,” Graystripe instructed 
them. “Fit your paws into the crack and pull!” 

The trapped cats got into position, jostling one another 
and letting out mews of determination. Graystripe thought 
that it was like watching cats wake up after a long, 
disorienting nap. They believe we have a chance now! 

Daffodil tottered up, leaning on Petunia’s shoulder, and 
stood close to the branch, her head tilted as she listened to 
Fang and the kittypets below. 

“Honeysuckle, is that you?” she called in a quavering 
voice. 

“Yes, ’mhere!” Fang yowled. “You’ll be free soon!” 

But at first the combined strength of all the cats could 
only lift the branch a couple of mouse-lengths out of its 
hole. “Fox dung!” Graystripe snarled, his renewed energy 
beginning to turn sharply to panic. “We’re never going to 
shift it.” 

“Yes, we are,” Lily meowed resolutely. She was standing 
next to him beside the branch, her paws dug deep into the 
gap. “We all have to pull together. Are you listening down 
there? When I say ‘now,’ give it all you’ve got!” She 
paused, taking a deep breath, then yowled, “Now!” 

Grunts and gasping breaths came from the cats as they 


put all their strength into raising the branch. As they 
strained at it, Graystripe felt his despair and despondency 
draining away from him like rain sinking into dry ground. It 
wasn’t just the chance of escape that invigorated him; it was 
being one cat in a group, all working together to achieve 
something. 

This is how cats are supposed to live. 

Finally, with a deep groan, the branch lifted free of the 
hole; Graystripe and the others thrust it to one side. Cool air 
flowed in from the outside, and Graystripe took deep breaths 
of it, reveling in the taste of freedom. He looked down into 
the hole to see Fang and the WarriorClan kittypets staring 
up at him. 

“We did it!” Monkeystar squealed. 

“We did, and you did great,” Graystripe responded, “but 
stand back now and let these cats come out.” 

One by one, the trapped cats began to slide through the 
hole and onto the ground underneath the den. Some of them 
leaped down eagerly, while others hesitated, gazing around 
into the dim space as if they were uncertain about leaving 
the only home they knew. 

Graystripe turned to Lily, who was standing beside him. 
“Go and find the others,” he directed her. “You know where 
they might be hiding. Make sure we don’t leave any cat 
behind.” 

Lily dashed off, while Graystripe stayed beside the hole, 


making sure the trapped cats got out safely. Fang and the 
kittypets retraced their paw steps and led the rest of the cats 
out into the open. Petunia disappeared for a moment and 
retumed with a she-cat and three kits; the queen jumped 
down, while Petunia took each kit gently by the scruff and 
lowered them through the gap to where their mother was 
waiting for them. 

Graystripe helped Daffodil into the hole, and Fang met 
her and supported her as she fell more than jumped to the 
ground. The two cats twined their tails together, purring too 
hard to speak. 

Glancing around, Graystripe saw that only Lily and 
Petunia remained. “That’s every cat,” Lily told him. 

“Good,” Graystripe meowed with a nod of approval. 
“Then you’re next, Lily.” The orange tabby she-cat slid 
down through the hole and vanished. “Now you, Petunia.” 

Taking a pace back, Petunia shook her head. “I told you, 
T'mnot going. I want to stay with my Twoleg.” 

Graystripe remembered how the old she-cat had been 
determined to stay when he first suggested escaping, but he 
hadn’t realized that she would stick to her decision once the 
way of escape was finally open. Sadness threatened to 
overwhelm him at the thought that the rush of fresh air, and 
the freedom it promised, hadn’t affected her at all. 

“You can’t really mean that,’ he argued; he knew he 
would blame himself forever if he didn’t give her the chance 


to change her mind. “Life will be much better on the outside, 
believe me.” 

Petunia shrugged. “I’m too old to go on adventures,” 
she responded, “and I did mean every word when I said I 
couldn’t break my Twoleg’s heart. She doesn’t keep cats in 
her den because she wants to torture them. Her cats are her 
only friends, and she loves them. If I leave, she’ll be all 
alone, and I don’t want that.” 

Graystripe couldn’t understand the old she-cat’s loyalty 
to a Twoleg who had put her and her denmates through 
such suffering, but he realized he had to accept it. “Good- 
bye, then,” he mewed. “I hope it all goes well for you. May 
StarClan light your path.” 

Petunia gave him a curious look, as if she didn’t 
understand his last words. Well, why should she? Graystripe 
asked himself. She’ not a Clan cat. Perhaps she was right, 
and she would have a hard time adjusting to life in the wild. 
Realizing that made him feel just a little better about leaving 
her in the den. 

With a last nod of farewell, he slid through the hole and 
down onto the ground beneath the den. The simple feeling 
ofearth underneath his paws was bliss, even though he had 
spent such a short time trapped inside. For a couple of 
heartbeats, Graystripe did nothing but stand there, flexing 
his claws with sheer enjoyment. Then he slithered out into 
the open to join Fang, the cats of WarriorClan, and the 


escaping kittypets in the overgrown garden. 

The escape had taken so long that by now the sun was 
up. Some of the kittypets were basking in it, beginning to 
groom themselves, while others seemed freaked out by the 
open spaces, and huddled in the long grass, or under the 
shelter of bushes. For the first time Graystripe started to 
wonder what was going to happen to them now that they 
were out of the den. Where could they go? Some cat would 
have to teach themto fend for themselves. 

He padded over to Fang and WarriorClan, dipping his 
head in gratitude as he approached. “Well done, Fang,” he 
meowed. “That was a great idea, going to fetch 
WarriorClan.” To the kittypets he added, “We couldn’t have 
done it without you.” 

The WarriorClan cats puffed their chests out proudly. “It 
was a real warrior mission,” Monkeystar declared. 

Maybe it had been, Graystripe thought, amused. 

He glanced at Daffodil, who was curled up nearby in the 
shade of a holly bush. “Fang, we need to decide—” he 
began, only to break off at a shrill sound, almost like 
birdsong, coming from farther along the Thunderpath. What 
now? he wondered, crouching ready to spring. 

The shrill sound rapidly grew louder until a Twoleg 
appeared, striding along purposefully. The sound was 
coming fromhis pursed lips. He had a lumpy pelt, hanging at 
his side, and as he approached the Twoleg den, he fished 


inside it and took out something like a bunch of white 
leaves. 

Graystripe followed him with his gaze, expecting him to 
pass by the den. But to his surprise the Twoleg turned in 
through the gap in the fence. He was heading for the den 
when he halted, the shrill sound dying into silence as he 
stared around at all the cats. 

“Touch one of us,” Graystripe hissed, “and you'll feel 
my claws.” 

But the Twoleg made no attempt to grab any of the cats. 
Instead, he seemed to become aware of the stench, his nose 
wrinkling as he gazed from the cats to the den and back 
again. 

Eventually the Twoleg hurried up to the den, pulled open 
a narrow slat in the door, and thrust the white leaves 
through it. Then he stepped aside to look in through the 
window. He stayed there for a long time. 

“What is he doing?” Fang whispered to Graystripe. 

“Гуе no idea. I wish he’d just go.” 

A moment later, Graystripe had his wish as the Twoleg 
turned away from the den and retreated through the garden, 
giving the cats another long stare as he went. He pulled out 
a small Twoleg object from inside his pelts, clapped it to his 
ear, and started squawking into it as he disappeared along 
the Thunderpath in the direction he had come, almost at a 
run. 


Graystripe shrugged. “I don’t know what all that was 
about,” he meowed, “but it means that there’s a Twoleg who 
knows we’re out here. It’s time we made a move.” Raising his 
voice, he called all the cats to gather close to him. 

Glancing around as the escaping cats obeyed, Graystripe 
could see that many of them were hesitant; their ears were 
flattened and their fur bristling, their eyes wide with fear. 
They had spent most of their lives in that Twoleg den. The 
open spaces must be terrifying to them. 

“Listen, every cat,” he began when they were clustered 
around him. “The first thing we need to do is get away from 
here. Then we’ll hunt, and feed, and rest, and decide what 


” 


“Pm not sure about this,” an elderly black tom 
interrupted. “I don’t much like it out here. What happens if it 
rains?” 

We get wet, Graystripe thought, though he stopped 
himself from saying something so unsympathetic out loud. 

“Yeah, and what’s all this talk about hunting? We don’t 
know how to do that,” an older tabby she-cat mewed. 
“Maybe we should go back inside.” 

“At least we know we can survive in the Twoleg’s den,” 
the black tom agreed. “We did it for so long.” 

Murmurs of agreement came from several of the other 
cats around Graystripe. He stifled a hiss of exasperation, 
knowing he couldn’t be unkind to cats who had suffered so 


much. 

Fang, however, wasn’t so gentle with them. “Some of us 
didnt survive,” he pointed out, a hard edge to his tone. “My 
mother, for one.” 

His words shamed the other cats into silence. “Sorry, 
Honeysuckle,” the old black tom meowed. “We all remember 
Gremlin.” 

“Of course, you can do what you want.” Graystripe 
spoke briskly, needing to move on. “You can go where 
you’re comfortable. But for what it’s worth, / believe a cat’s 
place is out in the wild. Don’t you want to breathe the fresh 
air, and eat fresh-kill whenever you’re hungry, and feel soft 
grass undemeath your paws?” 

“We'll teach you what you need to know,” Fang added. 
“Maybe it will be okay, then,” the tabby she-cat admitted. “If 
we can live out here, we’d be better off than trapped in there, 
treated as we were.” 

“And I wouldn’t be sick like this if we’d found a way out 
sooner.” It was Daffodil who spoke up, surprising Graystripe 
with her courageous tone. “Do you want to end up like me?” 

Awkwardly the cats glanced at one another; though 
none of them gave Daffodil a straight answer, it was clear 
that none of them did. 

To Graystripe’s relief, he, Daffodil, and Fang seemed to 
have convinced the escaping cats that they were doing the 
right thing. “So what do we do?” Lily asked. 


Graystripe found it hard to answer that question. He 
didn’t know where all these cats would eventually end up. 
There were no Clans nearby, so some of them might become 
rogues or loners, or even go back to being kittypets 
someplace else. Only one thing was very clear. “First we 
have to get away fromthis den,” he announced. 

He led the way out of the garden and—after checking 
carefully for approaching monsters—across the 
Thunderpath into the forest beyond. Fang helped Daffodil, 
and the WarriorClan kittypets padded beside a few of the 
older cats, guiding them along. Graystripe kept an eye on the 
three kits, who seemed to be enjoying the new experience of 
being outside, and trotted along after their mother, gazing 
around them with bright, curious eyes. 

But before they had ventured far into the undergrowth, 
Daffodil sank to the ground, and one or two of the older cats 
halted, too. 

“We can’t go on at this pace,” the black tom meowed. 

Graystripe looked them over, watching their flanks heave 
as they took deep, gasping breaths. “Okay, we’ll take a rest,” 
he responded. “Maybe some prey will get your strength 
up.” 

But when he cast a glance back over his shoulder, he 
realized he could still see the gray walls of the Twoleg den 
through the outlying trees. His pelt prickled with panic; they 
hadn’t traveled nearly far enough to be safe if Twolegs came 


searching for them. 

“Take cover in the long grass,” he directed the escaping 
cats. “And don’t move until Fang and I come back with 
some fresh-kill.” 

At least, Graystripe reflected, there seemed to be plenty 
of prey in this part of the forest. Obviously, no cat had 
hunted there for a long time, and he guessed there were no 
foxes or badgers, either. Before long, he and Fang had 
collected a good haul of mice and voles and carried them 
back to the escaping cats. 

They shared out the prey between the older kittypets 
and the sick ones; Graystripe watched them sniff it 
suspiciously, hesitate a moment, then begin gulping it down 
enthusiastically. 

“This isn’t bad at all,” the old black tom mumbled around 
a mouthful of vole. “Very tasty.” 

Graystripe noticed that some of the younger cats were 
looking on wistfully as their older denmates devoured the 
prey. “Don’t worry,” he told them. “As soon as we find 
somewhere safe, we'll hunt for you, too. And you'll be 
hunting for yourselves before you know it.” 

Eventually, when all the prey was eaten, the older cats 
rose to their paws. “We’re ready to go on now,” the tabby 
she-cat declared. 

But as the cats gathered around him, ready to continue, 
Graystripe heard the sound of an approaching monster. It 


was followed a moment later by a warning hiss from Fang, 
who had been keeping watch by the Thunderpath. 

“Stop! Get down!” 

Graystripe dropped to the ground and crept forward with 
his belly fur brushing the grass, as cautiously as if he were 
stalking a mouse. When he reached Fang’s side, he saw a 
monster halted outside the Twoleg den; two Twolegs in 
black-and-white pelts were emerging from it. They stared 
around and began brushing aside the straggling branches of 
the bushes in the garden. 

Every hair on Graystripe’s pelt rose in horror. He 
recognized these Twolegs: They were like the ones who had 
captured him from ThunderClan’s territory and taken him 
away to be a kittypet. Those Twolegs had appeared in a 
monster just like this one; it had been lined with cages 
inside, and Graystripe wondered if there were cats trapped in 
there now. 

But even if there are, they те not my problem, he decided. 

A few of the escaped cats slid through the long grass to 
join Graystripe and Fang. Their eyes widened as they 
spotted the newcomers. 

“Keep back!” Graystripe snapped. “Do you want the 
Twolegs to see you?” 

“I know who they are,” Lily whispered. “They round up 
cats when their Twolegs can’t take care of them properly.” 

And wild cats minding their own business, Graystripe 


thought. “Do Twolegs still take cats to the cutter?” he asked 
with a shudder. 

Lily nodded. “They do,” she replied. “I’ve heard that 
new Twolegs—usually young ones—come after a while and 
take them to their den.” 

“That doesn’t sound too bad to me,” the old black tom 
commented. 

He could be right, Graystripe thought, casting a glance 
around at the cats, his gaze resting especially on the ones 
that were old and sick. That might not be the worst idea for 
some of these cats, to be rounded up by Twolegs. At least 
they а get plenty of food, and the right herbs to make them 
well again. 

Anxiously, Graystripe turned back toward the black-and- 
white Twolegs. At the moment they were still searching the 
garden of the den, but he knew that when they failed to find 
any cats there, they would start looking in the forest. 

Just then he heard a terrible wailing sound approaching 
rapidly up the Thunderpath. A huge white monster surged 
into view and halted outside the den. Not waiting to see 
what it was doing there, Graystripe began urging the rest of 
the cats farther into the trees. 

“We have to go,” he meowed urgently. “If we don’t pick 
up the pace, those Twolegs will catch us.” 

“No, wait,” the old black tom put in as the rest of the 
cats rose to their paws, ready to go. “Suppose I run toward 


the Twolegs. I can keep them distracted while the rest of you 
seek your freedom.” 

“No chance!” Lily protested. “We escaped the den 
together, and we’re going to stay together.” 

She started to shove the black tom in the direction 
Graystripe had indicated, but the tabby she-cat raised her 
tail to stop her. “Sunflower is right,” she insisted. “We old 
cats don’t want to be a burden on the rest of you. We don’t 
have much time left anyway; let us do this for you younger 
cats.” 

Graystripe felt the weariness of age in his own bones as 
the elderly tabby spoke. He couldn’t help but admire the 
courage of these older cats and their willingness to sacrifice 
themselves. 

“Thank you,” he murmured. “Thank you fromthe bottom 
of my heart.” 

But when Graystripe turned to round up the cats he 
would lead to freedom, he saw Fang standing beside 
Daffodil, shuffling his paws awkwardly, as if he was 
reluctant to move. 

“Fang, I can’t go with you,” she mewed mournfully. 
“Гуе had weak legs my whole life, and my sickness has 
gotten worse since you ran for help. Even if you gave me all 
the fresh-kill you could catch, it wouldn’t make me run as 
fast as Га need to run to get out of here. I don’t want to cost 
any cat their chance of freedom.” 


Graystripe didn’t want to leave Daffodil behind, but he 
had to admit that she was right. Though she was younger 
than some of the others, she looked weak, and the scent of 
her infection was strong; he remembered how she had 
tottered across the floor of the den to make her escape 
through the hole, and how she hadn’t been able to control 
her fall down to the ground. 

She needs more help than we can give her, without a 
medicine cat. 

Fang, however, was staring at her, his green eyes full of 
distress. “You don’t know how strong you really are, 
Daffodil,” he told her. “You can make it. I believe in you!” 

But Daffodil only shook her head. “You have to go on 
without me. I know how badly all of you wanted to be free. 
And if I hold you back, you might be trapped along with 
“Pm willing to risk that!” Fang meowed. “As long as 
we’re together, I’ll be okay.” 

Graystripe felt pain clawing at his heart as he realized 
how much Fang must love this she-cat. He watched as Fang 
stooped over her and gently licked her ears. “ГЇЇ stay with 
you,” Fang murmured. 

“No!” Daffodil nuzzled him affectionately, then drew 
back. “I won’t let you do that. You have to leave with the 
others. Besides, if these Twolegs capture us, do you think 
that they’ll let us stay together?” 


“Why wouldn’t they?” Fang asked. “Once they see how 
much we love each other...” 

Daffodil shook her head. “Twolegs don’t think the way 
we do. Besides, Fang, our other denmates will need you. 
Some of them have never set paw outside the den walls. 
You'll have to look after them. Teach them how you’ve 
survived out here.” 

Fang hesitated a heartbeat longer, then bowed his head 
in acceptance. “If that’s what you want, Daffodil. I promise 
ГЇЇ never forget you.” 

As they said their last good-byes, Graystripe turned 
back to the den and saw the old Twoleg, wrapped up in a 
huge pelt, being guided by some other Twolegs into the big 
wailing monster. “Now what’s happening?” he asked. 

It was Lily who replied, sounding almost relieved. “I’ve 
seen that monster before. It’s a special one. It seems to know 
when a Twoleg is sick or injured, and it takes them away 
somewhere, to get better.” 

Oh, then those are medicine Twolegs, Graystripe 
thought. Thats good. They'll take care of her. 

Then he noticed that Petunia had followed the old 
Twoleg out of the den and padded along in her paw steps 
until the medicine Twolegs helped her into the monster. 
Petunia was wailing almost as loudly as the monster itself 
had. She tried to follow her Twoleg into the monster, but one 
of the Twolegs gently pushed her away and closed up the 


monster, leaving Petunia outside. She stood caterwauling on 
the Thunderpath as the monster started up and moved off. 

The black-and-white Twolegs had disappeared— 
searching around the back of the den, Graystripe suspected. 
Though his pelt prickled with fear, he snapped at the others, 
“Wait here,’ and darted out onto the Thunderpath to 
Petunia’s side. 

Petunia turned to him, her amber eyes bewildered and 
sorrowful. “They took my Twoleg away, and they wouldn’t 
let me go with her. What should I do now? She needs me!” 

“They’ll take care of her,” Graystripe tried to reassure 
her. “She’s ill, and they”Il make her better.” 

But Petunia refused to be comforted. “She needs me!” 
she repeated. “And Ineed her.” 

“You don’t need her anymore,” Graystripe asserted. 
“You can come with us.” 

“With you?” Petunia sounded outraged. “I’m not going 
anywhere with you. That's what I keep telling you. I'm 
staying right here until my Twoleg comes back.” 

Graystripe could hear the black-and-white Twolegs 
moving around behind the den. He knew they only had 
moments before they came back, and he and Petunia would 
be spotted. Every muscle in his body was telling him to flee 
back into the woods, but he could not bring himself to leave 
Petunia; though she was old, she was strong enough to 
make a new, free life for herself. He thought it was unlikely 


that her Twoleg would ever return, though he was sure he 
would never convince Petunia of that. 

“Listen,” he began. “Back there are more Twolegs 
searching for cats. If they find you, they’ll take you away 
and give you to other Twolegs.” 

“They wouldn’t!” Petunia exclaimed, shocked. 

“They would. But... if you come with us, you won't be 
have to go far away. You can stay nearby and check the den 
as often as you want to see if your Twoleg comes home.” 

Petunia blinked, obviously deep in thought. Graystripe 
waited, his pelt prickling with impatience; he flexed his claws 
on the hard surface of the Thunderpath, while keeping his 
gaze fixed on the comer of the den for the first signs of the 
black-and-white Twolegs returning. 

Here we are, out in the open, without even a scrap of 
cover... 

Then Graystripe flattened his ears as he saw the first 
Twoleg appear around the side of the den. It let out a loud 
yowl, pointing toward the two cats. The sound seemed to 
shake Petunia out of her thoughts. 

“Okay, ГЇЇ come with you,” she mewed. 

“Then run!” Graystripe yowled. 

With Petunia at his side, Graystripe pelted across the 
Thunderpath and into the trees, but as they rejoined the 
other cats, he realized that he’d made a mistake—he had just 
shown the Twolegs where they all were hiding. “We have to 


go now!” he gasped. 

“Keep your fur on,” the old black tom, Sunflower, 
meowed. “We’ll handle this.” 

With the rest of the older cats behind him, he led the way 
toward the Thunderpath, yowling loudly to attract the 
attention of the Twolegs. Graystripe saw Fang staring after 
them, rigid with misery, as the old tabby she-cat let Daffodil 
lean on her shoulder, and the two of them brought up the 
rear. 

“Okay, the rest of you, this way!” Graystripe called, 
signaling with his tail to the remaining cats. 

He led them at a brisk pace through the woodland and 
down to the lush undergrowth beside the river. Eventually, 
when he felt they were far enough away, he called a halt 
beside a clump of hawthorn bushes and gestured for the 
cats to slip into the center, out of sight. 

“This is great!” Monkeystar exclaimed, settling down on 
the thick covering of dead leaves and debris beneath the 
bushes. “It’s the first time we’ve been a real Clan.” 

“Yeah, doing real Clan stuff, like escaping from bad 
Twolegs,” Fireface agreed. 

Graystripe hid his amusement, purring happily to see 
them so excited. They deserved to feel proud of themselves. 
Without their help, pushing the loose branch from 
underneath, he and the other trapped cats would never have 
escaped from the den. 


” 


“Those Twolegs aren’t totally bad,” Fang reminded the 
WarriorClan cats. “They always show up whenever kittypets 
are in real trouble.” 

“Fang is right,” Graystripe agreed. “Those Twolegs 
aren’t our enemies; they just don’t understand that some 
cats want to live free, that’s all.” 

Leaving the WarriorClan cats on watch, Graystripe and 
Fang went off to hunt. They were back on the old RiverClan 
territory now, and Graystripe still knew where to find ample 
prey near the waterside. Even so, the sun was sliding down 
the sky by the time they had amassed enough to feed the 
whole of WarriorClan and the escaping cats, and Graystripe 
was exhausted. Been a long time since I had to catch 
enough prey to feed a crowd this size! For a moment, he 
thought longingly ofhis relaxing life in the elders’ den. 

“We might as well camp here for the night,” Graystripe 
meowed when every cat was full-fed. “Tomorrow we’ll 
decide what we’re going to do.” 

“We’ll keep watch, if you want,” Monkeystar offered. 
“In case any of those Twolegs come looking for us.” 

“Yeah, we know that the Clans always have cats to 
guard the camp,” Clawwhistle added. He was hiding a yawn 
as he spoke. 

“That’s a very good idea,” Graystripe responded, 
suppressing amusement. “Look, why don’t you lie down in 
this soft grass, just outside the bushes, so any intruders 


won’t realize you have your eye on them.” 

“Sure!” Monkeystar agreed; she and Clawwhistle settled 
down side by side in the grass, with a good view of the trees 
in the direction of the den. 

Every cat was exhausted; some of them were already 
curled up and beginning to snore. It wasn’t long before 
Monkeystar and Clawwhistle were snoring along with them. 

Graystripe sat down beside Fang, who was crouching 
with his paws tucked under him and his gaze fixed on 
something that no other cat could see. 

“I don’t think I can go on like this,” he murmured. “After 
my mother died, Daffodil was the only cat who made living 
in that horrible Twoleg den bearable. I don’t know how ГЇЇ 
cope, knowing that ГЇЇ never see her again.” 

Shall I tell him that life is long? Graystripe wondered. 
Shall I say that at some point hes likely to fall in love 
again? I know how that can happen. 

But Graystripe also knew from bitter experience how it 
felt to be separated from a cat he loved. He had thought that 
the pain would never heal, and that he would feel that way 
forever, no matter what any cat might tell him. Just like 
now... I still miss Millie so much. 

So Graystripe said nothing, simply stayed beside the 
younger tom, their pelts brushing as they settled down for 
the night. 


CHAPTER 29 


Se 


— Now — 


Graystripe was the first cat to wake the next day; the 
sunlight trickling through gaps in the hawthorn branches 
told him that the moming was well advanced. Sitting up, he 
saw that Fang was stirring too, but the WarriorClan cats and 
the escaped kittypets were all still fast asleep, the air 
beneath the hawthorn bushes warm with their breath. 

Uneasily, Graystripe wondered how these cats would 
manage living out in the wild. They didn’t know how to 
hunt, or fight, and they might be too used to their sheltered 
life inside the Twoleg den. However horrible it had been, at 
least they hadn’t needed to think for themselves. 

Then Graystripe let out a purr of amusement as he 
spotted Bigteeth and Bugeater striking out with their paws, 
as if they were fighting in their sleep. Clearly, they’d 
developed a taste for adventure. But when he looked at 
Fang, he could tell that the tom was still grieving; he was 
awake, but he hadn’t moved from his nest among the dead 
leaves. Instead he was staring into space with a look of 
sorrow in his green eyes. 

He'll relive yesterday, too, Graystripe thought, but it 
wont be out of excitement. Fang was obviously thinking 


about the she-cat he had left behind to be taken away by the 
Twolegs. 

“Try not to be too sad,” Graystripe murmured, touching 
Fang’s shoulder with his tail-tip. “Daffodil was so sick, and 
she might not have survived out here. She made a heroic 
decision, to stay behind so that other cats could have their 
freedom. She’s a truly brave cat.” 

“I know that's true,” Fang murmured. “But right now, I 
almost wish she weren’t. What I keep thinking about was 
the kind of life she and I had planned to have when we were 
free. We so wanted to have kits together And now... I 
don’t know what I’m going to do without her.” 

Graystripe let out a sympathetic mrrow. A pang of pain 
swept through him, swift as lightning, as he remembered his 
own sorrows, but he had to set themaside to give Fang the 
comfort he needed. “Take it from me: A cat will experience 
many, many heartbreaks in their lifetime,’ he meowed. 
“Heartbreaks and setbacks are like enemies, attacking you 
out of nowhere. Even when you’re strong enough to fight 
them, the important thing is not to let them follow you. And 
the way to do that is to keep moving forward, so that you’re 
constantly putting the enemies of grief and loss behind 
you.” 

Fang looked up at him, perturbed. “I don’t think ГЇЇ 
forget Daffodil in a hurry.” 

“I know.” Graystripe nodded understandingly. “I would 


never ask you to give up those precious memories. But 
moving forward will stop them hurting quite so much, so 
that eventually you’ll be able to find comfort in looking back 
on the time you and Daffodil shared together.” 

Fang sighed. “Maybe. But it’s hard.” 

Graystripe stayed by his side, hoping that his silent 
presence was would be a comfort, until the other cats began 
to wake. 

“What are we going to do now?” Monkeystar asked, 
poking her head out through the branches of the hawthom 
clump. “Come on! It’s a whole new day!” 

Some of the escaped cats groaned at being roused, and 
Graystripe heard one of them mutter, “Shut up and let me 
sleep.” But soon all of them, yawning or beginning drowsily 
to groom themselves, had gathered in a ragged circle around 
Graystripe and Fang. Graystripe realized they were expecting 
him to speak. 

“I know this is new to all of you who escaped from the 
old Twoleg,” he began. “And life out here will be difficult for 
you at first. But it will be easier if you decide right now what 
kind of life you want it to be.” 

“Well, Pm going to stay out here, and live under the 
stars.” The speaker was the tom with patches of missing fur, 
who had suggested escaping from the den by attacking the 
Twoleg. “If I never see another Twoleg, it’ll be too soon.” 

Several other cats murmured agreement, but others were 


looking wary. A black-and-white she-cat hesitantly raised 
her tail. 

“Гуе had a night to think about it, and what Га really 
like is to be taken in by nicer Twolegs,” she admitted 
reluctantly. “Ones with a cleaner den. And not so many 
cats.” 

“Good luck with that!” the tomscoffed. 

“You keep your jaws shut, Buttercup!” Petunia, who was 
sitting next to him, batted him over the ear with her tail. 
“There are good Twolegs, if you take the trouble to look. My 
Twoleg was wonderful until she got old and sick. You do 
that,” she added to the black-and-white she-cat. “I’m sure 
you'll have a very nice life.” 

“What T’d like,” Lily, the orange tabby, meowed, “is to 
join WarriorClan. Will you have me?” she asked Monkeystar. 

Two or three other cats echoed Lily’s request. 

“Of course we will!” Monkeystar purred, and the rest of 
WarriorClan yowled in eager agreement. “And we know a 
barn cat who might enjoy some company,” Monkeystar 
continued, “if any of you decide you don’t like the warrior 
life after all.” 

Graystripe twitched his whiskers in amusement. He 
wasn’t sure Barley was up for the excitement of hosting the 
WarriorClan cats, much less a group of assorted former 
kittypets. But he supposed at least life at the farm wouldn’t 
be boring! “Then Fang had better be your deputy,” 


Graystripe suggested. “If that’s okay with both of you.” 

Fang nodded, a light beginning to kindle in his eyes; 
Graystripe was pleased to see that the discussion was 
drawing hima little way out ofhis fog of misery. 

Monkeystar pretended to think for a moment, then also 
nodded. “Okay. That would be fun. Гуе never had a deputy 
before.” 

The WarriorClan cats and their new recruits drew 
together, beginning to talk over the adventures they might 
have. The queen with her three kits had stayed with them; 
the kits were wrestling happily among the dead leaves, as 
confident as if they had been Clanborn. Even Buttercup had 
lost his hostile attitude and joined in enthusiastically. / think 
he was just scared, Graystripe reflected. He’ll be fine now 
that he has a home, and friends to share it with. 

Fang signaled to Graystripe with a twitch of his ears, 
drawing him a little way out of the group. “We're going to 
have our work cut out for us, licking these cats into shape,” 
he murmured. 

“You mean, you will,” Graystripe responded. 

“What do you mean?” Fang asked, clearly taken by 
surprise. 

Graystripe blinked, his thoughts straying back to 
ThunderClan’s camp by the lake. The elders’ den. 
Squirrelflight. Blossomfall and my other kin. “Being with all 
of you has helped me decide something,’ Graystripe 


explained. “No matter what they’re facing, cats are at their 
best when they’re working together. I’m going back to my 
Clan.” 

Fang stared at him, utterly taken aback. “Graystripe, I 
can’t do this alone!” he protested. 

“You can and you will,’ Graystripe meowed evenly. 
“These cats will be your responsibility. I couldn’t tell 
Monkeystar she’s not leader anymore, but you know these 
cats best. You’ll be the cat in charge of them. They’ll be your 
Clan.” 

“But I don’t know anything about leading a Clan. 
Besides, these cats can’t really be a Clan,” Fang continued. 
“It's all a big game to the kittypets—but they can go home 
to their Twolegs at night. These cats we’ve just freed can’t 
do that.” 

“That’s why I made you deputy,” Graystripe told him. 
“You have experience living in the wild; you know how to 
hunt, and you’re strong. Without you and your initiative 
and good sense, we would never have shifted that branch 
so we could escape from the den. If you can do that, I guess 
that in a pinch you could fight off a fox or a badger, and 
teach the others, too.” 

Fang gulped. “I’m not sure you’re right. I don’t feel 
strong.” 

“Of course I’m right,” Graystripe declared, touching the 
younger cat on his shoulder with the tip of his tail. “The 


other cats already look up to you. If you hadn’t escaped on 
your own in the first place, none of the others would be free 
now. You became their leader the moment you broke out of 
the den and went for help. Now you must be a cat worth 
following.” 

For a moment Fang looked appalled at the responsibility 
Graystripe was laying on his shoulders. Then slowly his 
expression changed, and he raised his head as if he was 
discovering a new self-respect. “ГІ do my best,” he 
promised. “But there’s something else. Your Clans all have a 
connection with StarClan, and we don’t have that here.” 

“Tm not sure that you ever will,” Graystripe responded, 
thinking with a pang of foreboding about the situation in the 
Clan he had left. I’m not sure we will, either. “StarClan might 
make themselves known to you, or they might not. Cats 
connect to their ancestors in all sorts of different ways. But 
even if you never make any connection with them, you can 
live as a Clan, with every cat caring for the others, especially 
the sick and the old, and training your kits to be warriors in 
their turn.” 

As he spoke, a feeling of comfort came over him. / 
WarriorClan can live as a Clan without StarClan, he 
mused, then maybe our lakeside Clans can do that, too. It 
will be wonderful if StarClan returns, but will it really be 
such a disaster if they don t? 

For the first time, he felt he could imagine a future 


without StarClan. It would be difficult, and it would hurt 
sometimes—he knew how much it had hurt him to call out 
for Firestar’s help and get nothing in return. But he had 
survived ... and he was still here to help form this makeshift 
Clan in the old forest. / can survive without you, StarClan, 
and still do good things, he thought. I don t want to . . . but 
I can. 

“Yes, we can do that,” Fang mewed resolutely. “But are 
you really sure that Im the one cat to lead them?” 

“Absolutely positive,” Graystripe assured him. 

Fang dipped his head. “Thank you, Graystripe. That 
means a lot.” He tumed and padded back to the group, 
taking his new place beside Monkeystar. 

Graystripe sat watching them for a moment. His mention 
of sick cats had given him an idea. Eventually he got up and 
skirted the group, until he reached Petunia. The old gray 
she-cat was listening to Fang and the others, but she 
seemed detached, her eyes still full of grief for her Twoleg. 

“Come with me,” Graystripe murmured. “I want to ask 
you something.” 

Petunia looked puzzled, but she didn’t object, and 
followed Graystripe as he pushed his way through the 
hawthorn branches and into the open. 

“Are you going to stay with WarriorClan?” he asked. 

“For a while,” Petunia replied. “Until my Twoleg comes 
home.” 


Graystripe still couldn’t tell her that it was unlikely her 
Twoleg would ever come home again. He knew it wouldn’t 
help; it was something Petunia would have to come to terms 
with on her own, in time. Instead he began, “A Clan of 
warriors always has a medicine cat. She, or he—” 

“Oh, I know about medicine cats,” Petunia interrupted. 
“Gremlin told me. She said that they talk to StarClan in 
dreams, and heal sick and injured cats.” 

“That’s right,” Graystripe meowed. “Back in the den, I 
saw how you were helping Daffodil, and how you helped the 
queen with her kits. You have a natural instinct to care for 
those around you—look how you still love your Twoleg! 
That’s so important for a healer.” 

“Me? A healer?” Petunia scoffed. “If I were, I could have 
saved Gremlin. I could have cured Daffodil.” 

“You probably could have, if you’d had the right herbs,” 
Graystripe told her. “And I want you to be WarriorClan’s 
medicine cat. No, I know you can’t talk to StarClan,” he 
continued swiftly as Petunia opened her jaws to protest. 
“But you could be a healer. I noticed that one of those cats 
we just freed is expecting kits.” 

“Well, Гуе delivered kits before, back in the den.” 
Petunia blinked thoughtfully. “I don’t know much about 
herbs, though.” 

“Pm no medicine cat, but I can teach you some.” 
Graystripe thought back to all the times he had ended up in 


the medicine cat’s den, being treated for wounds or 
sickness. I’m sure I would have died long ago, without a 
competent medicine cat. “We use cobweb to stop bleeding, 
and we put a poultice of marigold on wounds to fight 
infection. Pm pretty sure you’ll find marigold by the river.” 

He began to pad in that direction, carefully scanning the 
vegetation on both sides as he went. “Dock leaves for sore 
pads,” he continued, “and poppy seeds to ease pain. Not 
too many, though,” he wamed Petunia, “or you might put a 
cat to sleep and they’d never wake up again.” 

Reaching the waterside, Graystripe indicated a clump of 
marigold with a wave of his tail, then pointed to some tall, 
spiky plants with purple flowers. “Look, you’ve got 
watermint here,” he mewed. “That’s the best of all herbs for 
bellyache. I can’t see any chervil, though,” he added, 
remembering what Cinderpelt had told Gremlin, so many 
seasons ago. “And that pregnant cat really should be 
chewing the root.” 

“Oh, I know chervil,” Petunia told him. “My Twoleg used 
to grow it in her garden. It might still be there. I can fetch 
some when I next go to check if she’s home. She grew 
catmint, too,” she added, closing her eyes as if at a blissful 
memory. “Is that useful for anything?” 

“Yes, it’s really good for coughs,” Graystripe replied. 
“You’re bound to need some in leaf-bare.” 

“Tf Pm still here then,” Petunia meowed discouragingly. 


Then she added, “But I guess I can teach another cat what 
you’ve taught me. Lily might be good—she’s bright 
enough.” 

“That's a great idea,” Graystripe purred. “An 
apprentice.” 

“Td better have a word with Fang,” Petunia mewed, 
turning back toward the hawthorn clump. As he followed 
her, Graystripe could hear her muttering, “Marigold for 
infection, watermint for bellyache, chervil root in 
pregnancy...” 

Imade a good choice there, Graystripe thought. Petunia 
had so much love to give, and without her Twoleg to love, 
she might have despaired. But with an entire Clan of cats 
needing her care ... By the time she realizes that her Twoleg 
isn t coming back, she’ll have a whole new life. 

When Graystripe and Petunia returned, the other cats 
had emerged from the hawthorn. The black-and-white she- 
cat who wanted to be a kittypet, and two others with her, 
were saying their farewells, and soon they headed off 
upriver. Graystripe guessed they were making for the Twoleg 
bridge, and the new Twolegplace on the old WindClan and 
ThunderClan territories. J wonder where they'll end up, he 
thought as he watched them grow smaller and fade into the 
distance. 

The remaining cats were being taught the hunter’s 
crouch by Monkeystar and the rest of WarriorClan, while the 


three kits seemed to be everywhere at once, getting 
underpaw just like Clanbom kits. Because the WarriorClan 
cats were so young, it almost looked as if apprentices were 
teaching warriors, but Graystripe could see that they had 
remembered what he had taught them on that first day. 

That seems so long ago now. 

Graystripe stood watching, aware of a new sensation 
creeping over him. So much of what he’d taught the 
WarriorClan cats had been taught to him by ThunderClan. 
Even at the beginning of his “wander”—even when he 
hadn’t been sure he belonged in his Clan anymore—the 
wisdom he’d gained from ThunderClan remained an 
essential part of him. And ThunderClan carried on, even if it 
was no longer the ThunderClan of his youth. It been good 
to come back to the old forest, he thought, but I realize now 
that the lake is my home, and where I belong. 

It was time to go home. 

He thought of what Stoneteller had told him: / still have 
a part to play. He’d assumed that had meant going to the 
Moonstone. But suddenly he realized it could mean 
something entirely different. Maybe his “part” wasn’t about 
what he did on his wander; maybe it had everything to do 
with the part he’d play upon his return. 

All this while, Fang and Petunia had been deep in 
conversation. Eventually Fang dipped his head to the old 
she-cat and padded over to join Graystripe. 


“So you’ve found a medicine cat for us,” he mewed. “I 
never dared hope for that. Maybe we can be a real Clan, 
after all.” 

“Of course you'll be a real Clan,” Graystripe told him. 
“You'll care for one another, and that’s the most important 
thing.” 

Even while he was speaking, he realized that his words 
meant more than he had originally intended. Its true of 
ThunderClan, too. 

“Thave to go home now,” he announced to Fang. 

Fang twitched his whiskers in surprise. “But... Are you 
sure you don’t want to stay with us? I wish you would. We 
could use your help.” 

“I can’t,” Graystripe responded, shaking his head. “I’m 
sure now where I belong. Besides, if I stay, these cats will 
just look to me as a leader, not to you and Monkeystar, and 
that will never do.” 

Fang bowed his head in reluctant agreement. “Well, ГІ 
miss you, Graystripe. And ГЇЇ never forget you. You’ve been 
like a father to me.” 

“And Га have been proud to have called you my son,” 
Graystripe meowed. 

He padded over to the other cats, who all rose and 
turned to him as he approached. “I have to go now,” he 
declared, ignoring their mews of protest. “I wish you all well, 
and I know you’ll make a success of your Clan. You’re more 


than kittypets and rogues—you will be warriors.” 

The escaped cats and kittypets purred with pride, calling 
out farewells as Graystripe gave them one last wave of his 
tail, then turned away to head upriver. 


Before Graystripe had traveled many paw steps through 
the old RiverClan territory, he spotted a small group of 
WarriorClan cats brushing through the thick vegetation 
closer to the river, and paused to let them pass. 

I’ve said my good-byes. They’re on their own now. 

Then the cats emerged into a clearer space beside a small 
stream that trickled through the grass and fell into the river 
in a tiny waterfall. Monkeystar was in the lead, followed by 
the young tom Buttercup and two more of the escaped cats. 
Graystripe ducked behind a clump of horsetail to listen as 
Monkeystar addressed her Clanmates. 

“Right, we’re going to do a border patrol,’ she 
announced. “We’ll follow the river as far as the Twoleg 
bridge, then work our way back until we come to your old 
Twoleg’s den. And on our way we’ll mark our borders so 
that every other cat knows that this is our territory.” 

Who told her about marking borders? Graystripe 
wondered. Maybe it was Smudge, with all his other tales о] 
the Clans. 

“What if we meet any other cats?” The speaker was a 
small tabby-and-white she-cat. “What do we do then?” 

Monkeystar tipped her head. “Good question. Any cat?” 


Buttercup’s whiskers quivered with anticipation. “We rip 
their throats out?” 

“No, Buttercup.” Monkeystar rolled her eyes. “There’ll 
be no throat-ripping when I’m in charge. If we do meet any 
other cats, we”ll just tell them that this is WarriorClan 
territory now and ask themto leave.” 

“But what if they won’t leave?” the she-cat persisted. 

Buttercup flexed his claws. “Then we rip their throats 
out!” 

Graystripe stifled a mrrow of amusement. He didn’t think 
any of these cats would be so excited to face a real fight. But 
he thought he could rely on Monkeystar to cope with any 
intruders who might encroach on the new territory, one way 
or another. Already she sounded more mature than the silly 
young kittypet he had met a few days before. 

“Buttercup, haven’t you learned anything from 
Graystripe?” the tortoiseshell leader asked. “Did he attack 
the Twolegs who came looking for you? No, he did not.” 

“Yeah, and he wouldn’t let us claw the old Twoleg in the 
den,” the fourth cat, a sandy-colored tom, meowed. 

Monkeystar nodded vigorously. “Right. And when we 
first met Fang on the moor, he didn’t attack then, either. He 
found another way. And that’s what we have to do. 
Graystripe is such a noble cat; we have to try to be exactly 
like him!” 

Me? Graystripe thought. A hot wave of embarrassment 


flooded through him from ears to tail-tip. He was deeply 
grateful that the kittypets didn’t know he was listening; he 
would have crept away, except that he was afraid they would 
spot himas soon as he moved. 

“Graystripe is brilliant!” the she-cat mewed admiringly. 
“Oh, Fang is great, too, but it was Graystripe who really 
rescued us. He let himself be trapped with us, so that he 
could help us.” 

“He gave us hope,” the sandy tom agreed. “And he 
showed us how we could escape.” 

“I think he’s the best cat in all the Clans,” Monkeystar 
declared. “Graystripe traveled so far, and he went into a 
forbidden place to try to help his Clanmates, and then he 
helped us, and all of you trapped in that den.” 

Buttercup gave a reluctant nod. “I guess he is pretty 
special.” 

Oh, no, I'm not, Graystripe thought. I’m just a creaky old 
elder. I might have been useful to my Clan once—I even led 
them for a while, and that didnt turn out too badly. But 
those days are long gone. 

But even as the thought passed through his mind, he felt 
a weird sensation, as if his old friend Firestar were speaking 
to him froma long way off: You daft furball! 

Graystripe’s whiskers bristled indignantly, but as 
Firestar’s amusement still echoed around him, he considered 
again what the kittypets had said. Its true I did all that. 1 


traveled to the mountains, and then here to the old 
territories. I did venture down to the Moonstone—and, 
great StarClan, that frightened my fur off! And I helped 
these kittypets escape, and set them up in their own Clan. 
Blinking incredulously, he added to himself, But that wasnt 
being brave or noble. That was just doing what had to be 
done. 

And again he thought he could hear Firestar’s voice—or 
perhaps he only knew what Firestar would have said. 
Mouse-brain! Thats what being brave and noble means. 

The WarriorClan cats were still halted beside the stream. 
“What do you mean, he went into a forbidden place?” the 
she-cat asked. 

“Oh, that was a fantastic adventure!” Monkeystar 
replied. “Clawwhistle and I went with him—part of the way, 
at least,” she added honestly. “ГЇЇ tell you all about it after 
sunset, when the Clan is together and we’re eating our 
fresh-kill.” 

The she-cat gave an excited little wriggle. “I can’t wait!” 

And so another story is born, Graystripe thought, with 
another mrrow of amusement. Maybe elders will tell their 
kits for seasons upon seasons, all about the valiant warrior 
who ventured into the heart of the mountain. Nothing 
about how he was shaking so much his whiskers nearly fell 
of! 


“Okay, come on,” Monkeystar ordered. “We can’t stand 


here gossiping all day. We have a border patrol to finish.” 

She leaped over the little stream and disappeared into 
the undergrowth, with the rest of her patrol hard on her 
paws. 

Graystripe waited for their scent to fade a little before he 
began to follow. As he headed across the old RiverClan 
territory, he felt a deep satisfaction that the Clans who had 
lived here for so long would not be entirely forgotten, and 
that even their way of life would carry on with Monkeystar, 
Fang, and the rest of the kittypets. 

They wont be a Clan like ours, he realized. But they will 
care for one another. And that, at heart, is what a Clan is. If 
thats all Гуе accomplished on my wander, its not bad. Not 
bad at all. 

Then Graystripe remembered what Stoneteller had told 
him: that he still had a part to play in the troubles that beset 
his own Clan. When he had first heard those words, he had 
felt intimidated, as if an old, tired cat like him couldn’t 
possibly be that important. 

But whoS old and tired now? he asked himself, giving 
his pelt a shake and lifting his head boldly. No, I’m the fierce 
warrior Graystripe, and I can face anything. Bring it on! 

Partly he was mocking himself, knowing that he was far 
from being the splendid cat that the kittypets believed himto 
be. But partly, deep inside, he had recovered courage and a 
sense of purpose. For the first time, he could imagine that 


Stoneteller might have been right. 

Millie had said the same thing, he remembered, in his 
dream of her dying. She had told him that his life wasn’t 
over, that he was still an important cat. “You said I must 
never give up,” he murmured aloud, half imagining that his 
mate was padding along beside him. “And I won’t. I promise 
you.” 

One more night with Barley, he decided. And then back 
to the mountains, to spend one more night visiting Stormfur. 
And after that—home to the lake, and whatever my destiny 
demands! 


CHAPTER 30 


Se 


— Then — 


Graystripe let out a sigh of relief: After so much turmoil, 
things in ThunderClan were getting back to normal. The kits 
were frisking outside the nursery, Whitekit joining in now 
with her older denmates. The elders were lounging beside 
their fallen tree, deep in some gossip or story. Near the fresh- 
kill pile, Dustpelt was drilling all three apprentices in the 
warrior code. 

“Remember that you must never kill another warrior, not 
even in battle, unless it's a matter of their life or yours,” he 
meowed. 

“Not even a stinky ShadowClan cat?” Sootpaw asked. 

“Not even a ShadowClan cat,’ Dustpelt replied 
crushingly. “Not even ifthey are stinky.” He raised one paw 
and inspected his claws. “Would you like me to show you 
how stinky a ThunderClan cat can be?” 

Sootpaw flattened his ears. “No, Dustpelt. Sorry.” 

Stifling amusement, Graystripe noticed movement at the 
mouth of the gorse tunnel; Brambleclaw appeared at the 
head of the returning dawn patrol, and bounded over toward 
Graystripe. 

“Anything to report?” Graystripe asked. 


Brambleclaw dipped his head politely. “Nothing, 
Graystripe,” he replied. “Everything’s quiet. We looked 
especially for traces of those foxes or BloodClan, but there 
weren’t any.” 

Graystripe had to force himself not to purr with 
contentment: not just at the news of the absence of any 
threat, but also in seeing the way that Brambleclaw clearly 
respected him. 

I’ve doubted myself and my competence so many times, 
he thought, but this young warrior obviously thinks I’m 
doing a good job. The Clan has accepted me now as their 
temporary leader. 

Graystripe dismissed Brambleclaw with a nod, trying to 
look confidently unsurprised by his report. Although nearly 
a moon had passed since the battle with BloodClan, 
Graystripe knew privately that it would be many moons 
before he could entirely convince himself that the dangerous 
cats wouldn’t be back, or that Fury wouldn’t forget her 
promise and find another way of causing trouble. But he 
also knew that the confidence he’d gained from leading the 
charge to drive BloodClan off had made him a stronger 
leader. Just days ago, he’d led all four Clans in a battle to 
force out a family of foxes that had made their den at 
Fourtrees. He didn’t think they would be coming back in a 
hurry. 

More movement by the gorse tunnel alerted him: This 


time it was Ashfur, pelting across the camp and skidding to a 
halt in front of him. 

Graystripe sprang to his paws, his fur bristling and his 
heart beginning to thump uncomfortably. “More trouble?” 
he asked. 

“No!” Ashfur was gasping for breath, his chest heaving 
and his blue eyes blazing with excitement. “I’ve seen 
Firestar! He’s home!” 

The news spread through the camp like ripples from a 
stone dropped in a pool. Cats poured out of their dens, and 
by the time Firestar and Sandstorm emerged from the tunnel, 
the whole Clan was out in the open, yowling their greetings 
to their returning leader. 

Graystripe felt a massive wave of relief at the sight of his 
friend. It was wonderful to see him, and Sandstorm too, 
safely back where they belonged. But also, he felt the 
tension in his body snap and give way at the thought of not 
being leader anymore. What a relief it would be to give back 
the responsibility to the cat who was so much better able to 
bear it! 

“Where have you been?” Mousefur asked as the whole 
Clan crowded around the returning warriors. 

“What have you been doing?” Speckletail mewed. 

“Tellus what you’ve seen!” Brambleclaw added eagerly. 

Firestar waved his tail for silence, though it took a while 
for the noisy questioning to die down. “Take it easy,” he 


protested. “We haven’t come home to get squashed!” 

He didn’t answer any of the questions, and Graystripe 
guessed there must be a story that the rest of the Clan 
wasn’t allowed to hear. But if Firestar still didn’t want to 
share where he had been with the whole Clan, he must have 
avery good reason. 

Graystripe managed to work his way through the crowd 
until he came face to face with Firestar, and dipped his head 
to his leader and friend in deepest respect. “Welcome back,” 
he meowed. “It’s good to see you both.” 

“Its good to see you, too, Graystripe,” Firestar 
responded. “How have things been while we were away? I 
hope you didn’t have any trouble.” 

“Trouble!” It was Brambleclaw who replied, his amber 
eyes gleaming with excitement. “If it hadn’t been for 
Grays tripe—” 

“That’s enough.” Graystripe silenced the young warrior 
with a stern look. He was grateful for the cat’s praise, but he 
didn’t want to worry his leader, especially now when he’d 
just returned to camp. “We had some problems,” he told 
Firestar, “but nothing we couldn’t handle, because you left 
behind a very strong, capable Clan.” 

Firestar’s green gaze flicked from Graystripe to 
Brambleclaw and back again. “Well,” he purred, “it’s nice to 
know that I don’t have to worry about you all the time! And 
now Sandstorm and I must rest,” he added. “We’ve traveled 


a long way, and we both feel our paws are dropping off.” 

The Clan parted to allow the two cats to make their way 
to Firestar’s den. Once they had disappeared behind the 
curtain of lichen, the rest of the cats began to disperse, 
excitedly discussing their leader’s return as they headed to 
their duties. Seeing how deeply they respected Firestar, 
Graystripe felt even more certain that he wasn’t meant to be 
leader. I’ve been forgotten so fast, he thought with a wry 
twist to his mouth. 

But one cat hadn’t forgotten him; Brambleclaw paused 
beside him on his way to join Mousefur and Dustpelt for a 
hunting patrol. “Why didn’t you want Firestar to know how 
well you did as acting Clan leader?” he asked. 

Graystripe had to take a few heartbeats to think of a 
reply. “It was just instinct,” he admitted at last. “It seemed 
like the right thing to do. Besides, Brambleclaw, you heard 
what Firestar said just now: He likes not having to worry. So 
why make him worry, if he doesn’t have to?” 

Brambleclaw pondered this for a moment before giving 
him an understanding nod; then he padded off to join his 
Clanmates, who were waiting for him at the entrance to the 
gorse tunnel. Graystripe drew in a deep breath, feeling truly 
relaxed for the first time since Firestar left on his quest. And 
he allowed himself a tiny prickle of pride. 

After all, I'm the cat who guided our Clan through its 
troubles. 


Sunhigh was past when Sorrelpaw came bounding 
across the camp to where Graystripe was enjoying a mouse 
beside the fresh-kill pile. “Firestar would like to see you in 
his den,” she announced. The little tortoiseshell’s eyes were 
shining and her tail was curled up. 

“You look pleased with yourself,’ Graystripe remarked, 
gulping down the last morsels of mouse. 

“My mentor is home!” Sorrelpaw gave an excited little 
bounce. “I’ve missed Sandstormso much.” 

“No more Dustpelt, then?” Graystripe teased her. “You 
might get to keep your fur.” 

“No more Dustpelt.” More seriously, Sorrelpaw added, 
“But he’s a terrific cat. Im so lucky, to have learned from two 
great mentors!” She dashed off again, joining her littermates 
outside their den. 

Graystripe padded across the camp to the Highrock and 
called Firestar’s name at the entrance to the den. 

“Come in,” his friend called. 

Graystripe entered to see Firestar crouched with his 
paws tucked under him, while Sandstorm was curled up in 
his nest. She opened her eyes to a green slit, then closed 
them again and let out a drowsy purr. 

“It’s good to be home,” Firestar began, “and even better 
not to walk back into the middle ofa crisis. Im very proud of 
you, Graystripe.” There was a glint in his eyes, Graystripe 
noticed uneasily. “What is it you’re not telling me?” he 


continued. 

Ruefully, Graystripe realized that his friend knew him too 
well. “There was a challenge from some of the surviving 
members of BloodClan,” he confessed. At Firestar’s sudden 
look of concern, he went on quickly: “There’s nothing to 
worry about. They’ve been defeated, and they won’t bother 
us again. Then there was an .. . issue with some foxes 
making a home at Fourtrees. Ineeded a bit of help from the 
other Clans on that one, but we drove them out, and all is 
well.” 

Firestar’s green eyes widened. “I’m impressed,” he 
meowed. “How did you unite the Clans to drive out the 
foxes? And how did you prepare the Clan to defeat 
BloodClan without any help, and without losing a single 
cat?” 

“Well, I had to be clever,” Graystripe replied. “And I 
made an agreement with a pregnant BloodClan queen. She 
told us when and where BloodClan was going to attack, and 
that meant we could make a battle plan.” 

“And she did all that out of the goodness of her heart?” 
Firestar asked, with a wry twist to his mouth. 

“Well... no,” Graystripe admitted. “I agreed to take her 
into ThunderClan—just until you came home, when you 
would decide if she could stay permanently. But she isn’t 
here now. Cinderpelt was convinced it would be a hard 
kitting, and the queen was so concerned about her unborn 


kits that she chose to become a kittypet instead.” 

Firestar blinked thoughtfully. “You must have managed 
her well, Graystripe. In fact, between that and those pesky 
foxes, it sounds as if your leadership has been a great 
success. I obviously made the right decision when I chose 
you as my deputy!” 

Graystripe had no words to answer that, and only licked 
his chest fur in furious embarrassment. 

“You'll make a fine leader if anything happens to me,” 
Firestar continued. “But I hope that will be a long time from 
now!” 

Graystripe flicked his ears, pleased by his leader’s praise, 
but uneasy at the same time. “That's the thing, Firestar...,” 
he began cautiously. “I think this experience taught me that I 
don’t want to be Clan leader.” 

“Oh, come on, Graystripe ...” 

“It's not that I don’t respect the position, or that I don’t 
love my Clan,” Graystripe interrupted. “It's just that I feel 
more comfortable supporting you than being the one to 
make the decisions. But ГІ defend ThunderClan to my dying 
breath! I promise you, Firestar, ГЇЇ never leave my Clan! And 
maybe I will feel differently one day.” 

Firestar twitched an ear in surprise. “What do you think 
would make you change your mind?” 

Graystripe looked down at his paws. “Well... you,” he 
replied honestly. “I see how our Clanmates respect you, 


Firestar. I believe you were born to be leader, and believe me, 
having to do your job for a couple of moons helped me 
realize just what a hard job it is.” He paused. “Maybe, if I 
have more time to learn from you, ГЇЇ feel one day that I am 
prepared. But right now, I don’t.” 

Silence followed his words. Graystripe watched his 
leader through narrowed eyes; then, slowly and reluctantly, 
he meowed, “ТЇЇ understand if you want to choose another 
deputy.” 

He waited with his belly churning while Firestar seemed 
to be considering his offer. 

“No,” the Clan leader responded at last. “I hope you'll 
change your mind someday, but I’m still a young cat with 
plenty of lives left before you’ll be tested.” 

“Thope so!” Graystripe exclaimed. 

“And in the meantime,” Firestar went on, “maybe there’s 
no better adviser than a cat who doesn’t want to be leader. 
Graystripe, do you promise to be honest with me always, 
and think of the good of the Clan before anything else?” 

“Of course I do,” Graystripe responded fervently. 

Firestar nodded. “Then that’s good enough for me.” 

Warm happiness enveloped Graystripe, as if he had 
stepped out of his den into a patch of sunlight. He listened 
contentedly while Fires tar continued to talk. 

“There will be more challenges ahead, for all the Clans,” 
the leader mused. “Simply driving back BloodClan, and 


eliminating the threat from Tigerstar, isn't enough to keep us 
safe. The world of the forest is big, and full of possible 
dangers. And now that I’ve seen the world beyond the 
forest, I know there are many, many more dangers out there.” 

Graystripe pricked up his ears at that. Where did he go 
when he was looking for SkyClan? Did he find them? What 
has he discovered? Looking more closely at Firestar, he 
thought that his friend seemed to have acquired a new air of 
experience, like an extra pelt. Whatever happened, it wasnt 
all easy. 

“ThunderClan must always be ready,” Firestar finished. 

“We will be,” Graystripe assured him. “After all, we have 
a whole Clan full of strong and capable warriors.” 

Firestar murmured agreement. “We do. And it’s a relief to 
come back to such a happy Clan, with every cat safe and 
going about their duties.” 

As Graystripe left his leader’s den, he pondered 
Firestar’s words. Even if he didn’t feel like a true leader, he’d 
kept the Clan he loved together. And if theres one thing this 
experience has taught me, he thought, padding across the 
camp to the warriors’ den, it that I love ThunderClan more 
than anything. ThunderClan is my home, after all. 


CHAPTER 31 


Se 


— Now — 


Weariness threatened to overcome him as Graystripe padded 
toward the barn, his shadow stretching out beside him. It 
had been a very long day. He paused in the shelter of the 
hedge, warily tasting the air for any traces of dogs, but the 
only scents he could catch came from a safe distance. 
Graystripe bounded across the open ground and wriggled 
through the gap in the bottom of the barn door. 

Beams of scarlet sunlight still angled down fromthe high 
windows and the holes in the roof, but most of the barn lay 
in deep shadow. Graystripe located Barley more by scent 
than sight, and slipped quietly through the piles of dried 
grass until he found the old cat curled up in a cozy nest. 
Gentle snores riffled the grass stems beside his muzzle. 

“Barley?” Graystripe mewed quietly. 

His friend’s whiskers twitched and he blinked his eyes. 
“Ravenpaw, is that you?” he asked. 

Graystripe felt his heart lurch with compassion. It wasn’t 
hard to guess what Barley had been dreaming about. “No, 
it’s me—Graystripe,” he meowed. 

Barley grunted, then sat upright, his eyes gleaming in 
the dim light. “Graystripe!” he exclaimed, fully awake now. 


“You came back.” 

Graystripe leaned forward to touch noses with him. “I 
did.” 

“And what about that young cat—what’s-his-name, 
Fang? Is he with you?” Barley asked, glancing around. 

“No, we managed to rescue the cats fromhis den, and he 
stayed on RiverClan territory with them,” Graystripe replied. 
“Suppose I catch us a couple of mice, and then PI tell you 
all about it.” 

It was good to relax in the soft grass, feasting on warm 
fresh-kill and telling the story of everything that had 
happened since he had left the bam two days before. 
Barley’s eyes stretched wide with horror at Graystripe’s 
description of the filth and stench of the Twoleg den, and of 
the starving, sick cats. 

“T didn’t think Twolegs could be so cruel,” he murmured. 

“She wasn’t cruel,” Graystripe explained. “She loved her 
cats, but she was sick herself, and she’d forgotten how to 
care for them properly. We should feel sorry for her.” 

“Hmm...” Barley still sounded doubtful. “So tell me 
how you managed to escape,” he continued. 

Graystripe described how he and Fang had managed to 
make a hole in the floor of the den to release the trapped 
cats, and how the older cats had sacrificed themselves to 
give the younger and stronger ones the chance to escape 
from the Twolegs who came searching for them. Barley let 


out a rusty mrrow of laughter as Graystripe told him about 
the part played by WarriorClan. 

“I guess ГЇ have those young cats visiting me soon,” he 
meowed, “to tell me all about it.” 

“Yes, and their whole adventure will get more dangerous 
and exciting every time they tell it,’ Graystripe agreed. “No, 
that’s not fair,” he went on a moment later. “We would have 
found it a lot harder without Monkeystar and the others.” 

“And Га certainly miss their chatter if they never came 
to visit anymore,” Barley added. 

“T don’t think there’s much danger of that,” Graystripe 
told him. “You might be getting some more company, too.” 
At Barley’s inquiring look, he explained, “Several of the cats 
who escaped have joined WarriorClan. But Monkeystar 
suggested that if they don’t like Clan life, they should come 
live with you here.” 

Barley broke into a rumbling purr from deep within his 
chest. “They’d be very welcome.” He paused for a moment, 
nibbling the last of the mouse that he had been eating while 
Graystripe told his story. “I suppose you'll be heading home 
tomorrow,” he murmured at last. 

Graystripe nodded. “Yes. If this journey has taught me 
anything, it’s that my place is back home in ThunderClan.” 

“Then this is the last time we’ll see each other.” Barley’s 
voice was sad but resigned. “I’m not ungrateful, you know. I 
never imagined I would see you, or any Clan cat, again.” He 


paused again, then continued, “I started to think about the 
end of my life once I realized I could no longer do all the 
things I once did. Everything seemed pretty bleak after I lost 
Ravenpaw.” 

“T felt the same when Millie died,” Graystripe mewed. 

“And we were wrong. Because you tumed up here, 
Graystripe, and that taught me that there’s still the chance of 
wonderful surprises.” With a lilt of amusement in his voice, 
he added, “Even for cats as ancient as we are, there’s still 
something to look forward to.” 

“You’re right, Barley.” Graystripe felt warm with affection 
for the old, wise cat. “And from now on, I’m going to keep 
looking forward with every single heartbeat.” 


Graystripe scrambled up the steep, rocky slope and 
stood panting at the edge of the pool. In front of him the 
waterfall thundered down, throwing up a cloud of spray that 
soaked his pelt within heartbeats. Above the falls, the 
mountain peak was outlined against a scarlet sky as the sun 
went down. 

“Hi there, Graystripe!” 

At the sound of the voice, Graystripe looked up to see 
his son Stormfur standing at the end of the path that led 
behind the cascade. “Come up!” Stormfur called, beckoning 
with his tail. 

Graystripe hauled himself up the rocks, terrified that his 
paws would slip on the slick surface, but determined not to 


show his fear in front of his son. When he reached the path, 
Stormfur led the way along it until both cats stood in the 
Tribe’s cave. 

“You knew I was coming?” Graystripe asked, stepping 
back to give his pelt a good shake so the water droplets 
wouldn’t spatter his son. 

“One of our hunting patrols spotted you,” Stormfur 
explained. “It’s really good to see you again.” 

“You too,” Graystripe purred happily. 

“Come and rest,’ Stormfur mewed, gesturing for 
Graystripe to follow him farther into the cavern. “I want to 
hear all about your adventures.” 

“PI need some prey before I can tell that story,” 
Graystripe responded. “Гуе traveled a long way today. My 
paws are sore, and my belly is flapping!” 

“Well, the Tribe has eaten already,” Stormfur began, “but 
I guess Ican find you something.” 

He disappeared into the shadowy recesses of the cave, 
while Graystripe settled himself on the stone floor and 
started to give his wet fur a quick grooming. The wavering 
light that came through the waterfall was already dying, and 
the cavern was quiet; most of the Tribe seemed to have gone 
to their sleeping hollows. 

Shortly, Stormfur returned, carrying a piece of prey that 
Graystripe guessed was part of an eagle’s leg; it had 
obviously come from a bigger bird than anything 


ThunderClan caught beside the lake. 

“Thanks,” he mumbled, tearing into the succulent flesh. 

Stormfur sat beside him and watched him while he ate. 
“T’m really glad you came back,” he meowed. “I was worried 
about you. It’s a long way to the old forest, especially—” He 
broke off, looking faintly embarrassed. 

Especially for an old cat like you, Graystripe thought, 
supplying the words Stormfur had not said. It occurred to 
him that Stormfur likely expected that he was going to come 
live with the Tribe, now that his journeying was at an end. 

Blinking in concern, he looked up at Stormfur. The grim 
set of his son’s jaw told Graystripe that he had already 
guessed his decision. “I’m sorry, Stormfur,” he mewed. “I’m 
going back to ThunderClan.” 

Stormfur twitched his whiskers in alarm. “So you made 
contact with StarClan?” he asked. 

“T wish I had,” Graystripe replied, struggling with regret. 
“But no. Гуе realized that I don’t need StarClan to tell me 
that my place is back in the Clan I love. ThunderClan is 
changing and moving on. Being back in the old forest made 
me realize how far we’ve come. Even StarClan has moved 
on.” 

“But how did that change your mind?” Stormfur asked, 
still bewildered. “Wasn't that part of your problem, that 
ThunderClan wasn’t the Clan you grew up in?” 

Graystripe hesitated for a moment, ordering his thoughts 


as he took another bite of eagle. “Yes,” he mewed at last. 
“But now I realize that I need to move on, too. Because my 
love for ThunderClan wasn’t just my love for one particular 
leader, or the warriors I fought and hunted alongside then. It 
was for everything ThunderClan is, and has ever been—and 
ever will be. For good or ill, as long as I have wisdom to 
share, that’s where I belong.” 

Stormfur let out an annoyed snort. “I’m sure your 
Clanmates haven’t even noticed you’ve gone.” 

Graystripe stared at him, unable to believe the hostile 
tone coming from his son. At once, Stormfur looked 
regretful, stretching out a paw toward his father. “I mean 
because Clan cats are unfeeling, not because you’re not 
important.” 

“Т may be an elder,” Graystripe meowed, remembering the 
self-respect he had gained after his successful rescue of the 
kittypets, “but I still have a lot to offer. Wisdom and 
experience.” 

“Then why don’t you just stay here?” Stormfur 
suggested. “Your kin could use your guidance.” 

“I would like that,” Graystripe admitted. “But I have kin 
in ThunderClan, too, and I have a duty to them now. I’ve 
given so much to my Clan, and they’ve given a lot to me.” 

“They can’t expect you to go on giving forever,” 
Stormfur argued. 

“Maybe they can’t,” Graystripe allowed, “but I want to 


give something. When Stoneteller told me I still have a part 
to play, I thought he meant that I could be the hero. I could 
go to the Moonstone and bring back StarClan and we’d all 
have a clear answer for what ThunderClan is meant to do 
next.” He paused. “What happened was nothing like that. 
Lightning struck the Moonstone and destroyed it. I reached 
out to Firestar, and I got no message back. For a while I was 
devastated.” 

Stormfur was watching him with wide eyes. “Of course,” 
he said. 

“But then I realized,” Graystripe went on, “that I was still 
here. I was still trying to be a good cat, to help others. I was 
teaching younger cats the warrior ways.” 

“So you’re okay with StarClan being gone?” Stormfur 
asked incredulously. 

“No,” Graystripe meowed, shaking his head. “No, it 
hurts terribly. I miss my kin. I miss my friends. But I know 
that if they don’t come back, life hasn’t ended. ThunderClan 
might struggle to keep itself together after all the strife we’ve 
been through. But it can still be a Clan. We’re still cats 
working together, taking care of one another.” 

Even before he had finished speaking, Stormfur had 
sprung to his paws, his neck fur bristling with anger. “You 
actually want to return to a troubled place, instead of 
staying here?” he demanded. Shaking his head, he 
continued, “PI never understand Clan cats, choosing 


conflict and battles over a peaceful life with your kin.” 

“You were a Clan cat yourself once,” Graystripe 
reminded him. Impulsively, he added, “You could always 
come to ThunderClan with me.” 

Stormfur’s anger didn’t die away, but he seemed to 
consider that for a moment. Then he shook his head. “Brook 
and my kits would never leave the mountains. Besides, Pm 
too old to change.” 

“So am I,” Graystripe responded. 

At last Stormfur seemed to understand, dipping his head 
in acceptance. “I can’t pretend I'm happy about it,” he 
meowed. “But did Stoneteller really say you have a part to 
play?” 

Graystripe nodded. “He did.” 

Stormfur’s ears flicked up. “In that case, it’s clear you 
must go back. Stoneteller is never wrong.” 

The pain and confusion Graystripe had felt during the 
argument with his son began to fade, until all that was left 
was a feeling of peace with his decision: that he truly 
belonged in ThunderClan, and that Stormfur understood 
why he had decided to go home. 

But at the same time, he was grief-stricken at the thought 
of being separated from his son forever. He remembered how 
he had been brooding over the little time he had left; he’d 
already said good-bye to one old friend for what he knew 
was the last time, and now he realized that this could well be 


the last time that he ever saw Stormfur, too. The thought was 
like a heavy ball of fire, deep within his belly; Graystripe felt 
that he might throw up and start wailing in despair all at 
once. 

With nothing more to say, father and son sat together in 
silence. Graystripe considered asking Stormfur to visit him in 
ThunderClan, if it was at all possible. / want to see him as 
often as I can in the time that remains to me. But something 
stopped him, and the words were never spoken. 

Eventually, Stormfur asked, “Are you going to tell me 
about your adventures?” 

Graystripe was relieved that there was something he 
could talk about other than the sadness of their parting. He 
described how he had found the old territories overrun with 
Twoleg dens, though Stormfur was pleased to hear that so 
far RiverClan’s old hunting grounds had escaped. He told 
the story of his meeting with WarriorClan and Fang and his 
disastrous attempt to speak with StarClan in the cave of the 
Moonstone. He told Stormfur about his visit to Barley, and 
how he had freed the cats from the den of the old, sick 
Twoleg. 

Mentioning Fang reminded Graystripe of his long-ago 
meeting with Gremlin, and how the BloodClan queen had 
saved ThunderClan. 

“I never knew that!” Stormfur exclaimed. “Feathertail and 
I were in RiverClan then, and you ThunderClan cats never 


said very much at the Gatherings.” 

“Well, would you have told the other Clans that you’d 
risked your whole Clan’s lives and made a deal with a 
BloodClan cat?” Graystripe asked. 

Stormfur purred in amusement. “No, I suppose I 
wouldn’t have.” 

Now Graystripe knew why he had stopped himself earlier 
from asking Stormfur to visit him. Once they’d gotten past 
their argument, this last evening had been perfect. If this 
was the last time he and his son would ever see each other, 
at least he would be leaving Stormfur with a happy memory. 


Days after leaving the mountains, Graystripe was 
trudging up a steep, grassy slope, panting with the effort of 
putting one paw in front of another. The ridge seemed to 
draw no closer for all the effort he was making. 

You е an elder, you stupid furball, he scolded himself as 
he halted for a breather. You shouldnt be traipsing about on 
quests at your age! 

Toiling on, Graystripe finally scrambled up the last few 
tail-lengths and stood on the ridge with the wind buffeting 
his fur. The land fell away in front of him, and in the 
distance, tiny and glittering in the sun, he could see the lake. 
He almost felt that one enormous leap would take him right 
across the water and into ThunderClan’s forest. 

Happiness and relief surged over Graystripe. I’m home, 
he thought. For better or worse ... I’m here to help the 


Clan I love. 


EPILOGUE 


Se 


— Then — 


Rain had fallen earlier in the day, but now the sky was 
clear, and the full moon floated serenely above the treetops. 
The air was cool and fresh, and a breeze blowing from the 
direction of Fourtrees brought the scent of many cats. 

Graystripe padded up the final slope in the paw steps of 
his leader, Firestar. His whole body tingled with relief that 
this time he wouldn't have to take his place with the other 
leaders on top of the Great Rock. Firestar had returned, and 
everything was as it should be. 

When he came to the rim of the hollow, Firestar raised 
his tail for his Clan to halt. For a moment he stood still, 
gazing down into the meeting place. Looking over his 
shoulder, Graystripe saw the massed assembly of cats at the 
bottom, every one of them tuming to stare. Their eyes 
gleamed as if the moonlight were reflected from countless 
tiny pools. From their position on the Great Rock, Tallstar, 
Blackstar, and Leopardstar broke off their conversation and 
stood rigid. 

“Haven *t they ever seen a cat before?” Firestar muttered. 

Graystripe stifled a snort of amusement. 

Then some cat called out, “Firestar!” As if at a signal the 


whole hollow erupted in yowls of mingled welcome and 
surprise. Graystripe guessed that some cats from other 
Clans, too, had believed that Firestar had retumed to his 
kittypet life. 

How wrong can you be? he thought. 

When the clamor began to die down, Firestar waved his 
tail and led his cats down the slope to join the others. 
Raindrops clung to the ferns, soaking Graystripe’s pelt as he 
brushed through them, but he was so eager to get to the 
Gathering that he scarcely noticed. 

Firestar leaped up onto the Great Rock to stand with the 
other leaders, while Graystripe joined the other deputies 
below. 

Tallstar stepped forward and dipped his head to the 
ThunderClan leader. “Welcome back, Firestar,” he meowed. 
“I hope you’re well again?” 

Graystripe thought that the WindClan leader sounded 
sincere, but there was definitely an edge of sarcasm in 
Leopardstar’s voice when she added, “Yes, Firestar, we’ve 
all been so worried about you.” 

“We thought you were never coming back,” Blackstar 
put in. 

“Well, Pm here now,” Firestar pointed out. “Thank you 
for your good wishes. I admit I never expected that it would 
take me so long to recover from a bout of greencough. But 
I’m quite well now.” 


He certainly looked it, Graystripe thought. When Firestar 
and Sandstorm had returned from their quest, they had both 
been thinner than usual, exhausted from traveling, their pelts 
ungroomed. But after a few days of rest and plenty of fresh- 
kill, they had both filled out; now Firestar stood strong and 
proud, his pelt shining in the moonlight. 

Blackstar and Leopardstar exchanged glances, and for a 
moment Graystripe’s muscles tensed with fear that they 
would challenge his leader. He guessed that they still 
believed there was something Firestar wasn’t telling them. 

But in the end Blackstar gave a curt nod, then stepped 
up to the edge of the rock and raised his head. “Let the 
Gathering begin,” he called. Once the cats in the hollow had 
settled down to listen, he turned to Firestar and added, 
“Perhaps you'd better speak first, Firestar. Pm sure you’ve 
got a lot to report.” 

Graystripe could tell that the ShadowClan leader was 
hinting again that there was more to Firestar’s absence than 
he had revealed to the rest of the cats. From the tilt of 
Firestar’s head, the twitch of his whiskers, it was clear that 
he knew it, too. But he didn’t let that bother him. 

“I certainly do,” he mewed briskly in response, moving 
to stand beside Blackstar, who dipped his head and took a 
pace back. “As you know,” he continued to the assembled 
cats, “I’ve been too ill to carry out my duties as Clan leader. 
But, thank StarClan, I have an excellent deputy who took 


that responsibility on his shoulders.” 

Graystripe glanced down at his paws as murmurs of 
approval came from the crowd of cats around him. 

“And not only that,” Firestar continued, “but BloodClan 
chose this time to make trouble again. I think somehow they 
must have known that I was unable to fight them.” 

“Yes, what about BloodClan?” Tallstar raised his voice. 
“Graystripe told us they’d been spotted on your territory.” 

“BloodClan had a new leader called Fury,” Firestar 
began. “A truly fearsome cat. She decided to do what 
Scourge failed to do, and take the forest for BloodClan. I 
suppose they thought that with its leader out of action, 
ThunderClan would be easy to defeat.” 

“No way, Firestar!” It was the apprentice Sootpaw who 
called out, then looked terribly embarrassed and slapped his 
tail over his mouth. 

“No way, indeed,’ Firestar purred. “Because 
ThunderClan has a brave, quick-witted, and competent 
deputy. Graystripe soon showed BloodClan what a mistake 
they were making.” 

Graystripe leaned aside and muttered into Sandstorm’s 
ear, “He doesn’t have to make such a fuss about it. Any cat 
would have done the same.” 

“But ‘any cat’ didn’t,’ Sandstorm mewed, giving 
Graystripe’s shoulder a brief nuzzle. “You did.” 

One or two yowls of “Graystripe!” rose up from the 


ThunderClan cats, but at once Firestar raised his tail for 
silence. 

“Think about this,” he continued. “Do you believe for 
one moment that if BloodClan had managed to take over 
ThunderClan territory, they would have stopped at that? No, 
I’m guessing that they would have come for WindClan next, 
then ShadowClan and RiverClan. We would all have been 
driven out, reduced to living as rogues or loners, or even— 
StarClan forbid!—becoming kittypets. But we’re not. We’re 
at this Gathering here today, Clans in charge of our own 
territories. And you all owe that to ThunderClan—and to 
Graystripe’s leadership.” 

Graystripe saw Tallstar nodding in approval, though 
both Leopardstar and Blackstar looked as though they had 
bitten into a piece of crow-food. 

But they cant argue with Firestar, Graystripe thought. 
Because what he said is true. ThunderClan had stopped 
BloodClan before it could invade the rest of the forest. 
ThunderClan, not me, he added to himself. 

Because no cat, not even Cinderpelt, would ever know 
how hard he had found it to make the decision to trust 
Gremlin. Ifhe had been wrong, the Clan he loved would have 
been destroyed. Even now his belly cramped at the thought 
of how close they had been to disaster. 

As Firestar stepped back, it seemed to Graystripe that 
every cat in the hollow had opened their jaws to yowl his 


name and the name of his Clan. 

“Graystripe! ThunderClan! Graystripe! ThunderClan!” 

He sat with his gaze fixed on his paws while the clamor 
buffeted his ears like a powerful wind. “T really don’t deserve 
this,” he murmured. 

“Of course you do,” Sandstorm mewed, narrowing her 
green eyes affectionately. “If it’s any comfort, it won’t last. 
The next time a rabbit runs across a Clan boundary, we’ll be 
sliding our claws out again. But for now, shut up and enjoy 
it.” 

But I dont enjoy it, Graystripe thought. / dont want to 
be the center of attention. Thats one reason why I would 
never want to be leader. 

He was happy to be Firestar’s deputy, and a loyal 
ThunderClan cat. And for the rest of my life, until I travel to 
StarClan, I'll do my best to protect my Clan. 


READ ON FOR AN EXCLUSIVE WARRIORS COMIC... 





CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ART BY 
JAMES L. BARRY 


Ee NAME IS MONKEYSTAR. 


Se ©] rn THe Leaver or warroreuan. ЙА 
PUT WAN 
у" an ie, 


IT'S BEEN ALMOST A MOON SINCE 
GRAYSTRIPE LEFT. I CAN'T HELP BUT MISS HIM... 


„PLUS I WISH HE COULD BE HERE TO SEE HOW 
WE'RE ALL DOING. OUR NUMBERS HAVE GROWN 
60 MUCH -I THINK HE'D BE PROUD. 


N sans. | Y 
DUGEATER COULD EVER LEARN ТО STALK L Ary 2) 
| / TS Е = 











THOUGH...IF I'M BEING HONEST WITH MYSELF...T 
CAN'T TELL IF MY LEADERSHIP IS DOING 
THE CLAN ANY GOOD. 











DON'T WORRY, BUGEATER. 
I'M SURE FIFTEEN TIMES WILL 
BE THE CHARM. 






NOMINATING FANG TO BE MY DEPUTY 
WAS THE RIGHT MOVE. BUT... WHAT IF EVERY CAT = 
HE'D BE A BETTER LEADER THAN I AM? LISTEN UA. 
YOU ALL KNOW THAT 
PETUNIA'S BEEN LEAVING THE 
CAMP A LOT. AND I WANT TO 
RESPECT HER PRIVACY. 


BUT SHE'S BEEN GONE 
FOR THREE DAYS THIS TIME, 
AND WE NEED TO MAKE SURE 
SHE'S NOT HURT OR TRAPPED 










WHAT IF HE DECIDES HE WANTS TO 
BE LEADER? WHAT WOULD I DO IF HE 
CHALLENGED ME? I DON'T KNOW. 


ALL OF THIS WOULD BE A LOT EASIER IF 
MY MEDICINE CAT, PETUNIA, DIDN'T KEEP 
DISAPPEARING FOR DAYS AT A TIME. 





ТИ. LEAD THE PATROL. 


селеде BUGEATER, CLAWWHISTLE, LILY, 


FINO HER. 





I NEED YOU TO 
STAY HERE. LOOK AFTER 
THINGS. 


ARE YOU 


CERTAIN...? 


T'M PRETTY SURE І CAN 
HANDLE MYSELF IN A FIGHT RELAX. WE'RE JUST 


BETTER THAN ANY CAT IN 
YOUR PATROL. GOING TO FIND PETUNIA. 












THIS IS GREAT! IT REMINDS I KNOW! 
ME OF THE TIME WE WENT OFF NOW THAT WAS AN 
WITH GRAYSTRIPE! 








T'VE ALREADY LEARNED ONE IMPORTANT 
THING ABOUT BEING A CLAN LEADER. AS MUCH AS 
MY CATS MIGHT YEARN FOR IT... 





THAT'S RIGHT! 
YOU'RE IN OUR TERRITORY! 


I THINK WE MIGHT BE 
IN SOME OTHER CAT'S 
TERRITORY. 


WHAT DO YOU WANT? 
COME TO TAKE OUR FRESHKILL? 
STEAL OUR HERBS? 


NOT EVEN CLOSE. = AA 
LOOK, WE'RE JUST қ 
? PASSING BY. y <j М 3 
р>... ) 
N М 
Р j 


j 


f- A 
t = 
4 е 
Ses Р 
f WANT ANY TROUBLE, 
| у АЧ понт? 
NN 


LUCKY FOR US, THEY FIGHT 
THESE ARE KITTYPETS. 
N NOT WARRIORS. ABOUT AS WELL AS YOU'D EXPECT 
S KITTYPETS TO. BUT... 
<7 
д — 
А ү; 


LAN! THIS 16 Y 
NOT WHAT WE CAME FOR! 


PULL BACK! 
— 





qo : === 
EL YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT! IN YOUR TERRITORY TO E 
асаа 


KEEP GOING! BEGIN WITH. 










AND STARCLAN MUST BE WITH 
US, BECAUSE SOON ENOUGH WE 
PICK UP HER TRAIL. 









ARE YOU ALL RIGHT? 


Г CLAWWHISTLE! YOU REALLY TOOK 
N ONE ACROSS THE FACE, DIDN'T YOU? 


pi il; 

ТІМ FINE. DON'T WORRY, к (рещ sania ña Ty 

м d i Tao- „А АШ! 
MONKEYSTAR. IT'S JUST Al ‹ itt 4 


A SCRATCH. 


wa 
SCRATCH OR NOT, IT MAKES ME WANT 
TO FIND PETUNIA ALL THE MORE. 


T'LL BET THIS IS WHERE 
SHE'S BEEN GOING EVERY TIME Щ 
SHE LEAVES THE CAMP. í 


I SHOULD'VE KNOWN THIS WOULD BE f 
WHERE WE'D FIND HER. THE TWOLEG DEN 
WHERE SHE CAME FROM. 


PETUNIA! ARE 
YOU OKAY? YOU HAD 
US REALLY WORRIED. 


NOT TO MENTION 
THE CLAN IS REALLY MISSING 
ITS MEDICINE CAT. 


I'M SORRY, MONKEYSTAR. 
IT'S JUST...I CAN'T... 


I CAN'T JUST TURN 
MY BACK ON THIS PLACE. 
IFIDO,I- 


WE ALL KNOW YOU'RE SAD, 
PETUNIA. BUT LIKE MONKEYSTAR SAID, 
WE NEED YOU. 


IF I DO, THAT MEANS 
ADMITTING THAT MY TWOLEG 
ISN'T COMING BACK. EVER. 


WARRIORCLAN CAN 


WE'VE BOTH GOT BE OUR HOME. ALL THE 
TO LEAVE THIS PLACE > TIME. 


BEHIND NOW. 


YOU'RE RIGHT. 
І KNOW YOU'RE 
RIGHT. 





All 
ў lig, 


e 


ў 


ДЇ (ce 


r 
| w 
IT’S A HUGE RELIEF TO 
HAVE PETUNIA BACK... 


| 
е 
dl 


BUT I CAN'T LET ONE OF 
MY CATS GO ON BEING THIS 
MISERABLE. 


Pr 


AND MAYBE THERE IS. 





Y 


THE MOONSTONE? GRAYSTRIPE SAID THE N 
I'M SORRY, MONKEYSTAR, I 7 MOONSTONE HAS A WAY OF SHOWING 
DON'T UNDERSTAND. 2 YOU WHAT YOU NEED ТО SEE, PETUNIA. 
JUST GIVE IT A CHANCE. 
HOW DOES THIS HAVE 
ANYTHING TO DO WITH HOW I FEEL ” 
ABOUT MY TWOLEG? І KNOW IT'S SHATTERED 
N NOW, BUT IT MUST STILL 
HAVE SOME POWER. E 


= 


MEL Р 
VA — 


= 


I HOPE I'M RI 
THIS FEELS 


WE 


Ve 
IN RED 
=O 


| 


h 4 
na 


SS SA 

MONKEYSTAR, I CAN'T 
EVEN BEGIN TO TELL you сё 
2 > 


HOW ми 





\ | 


> "АТ FIRST I WASN'T SURE ANYTHING WAS 
GOING TO HAPPEN AT ALL...NOW THAT THE 
MOONSTONE IS BROKEN." 


TELL YOU WHAT 
I SAW. 


"І SAW GREMLIN! THERE’S NO NEED TO 
AS CLEARLY AS I'M SEEING WORRY ABOUT ME, PETUNIA. 


CAN I - MAY I 
ASK...WHAT ABOUT 


oe, ) 
yy 6 


MA ULI AAU 


MARIGOLD IS JUST FINE, 
PETUNIA. SHE'S HERE. WITH ME. Ax ° 


SHE DOESN'T HURT ANYMORE. 
SHE'S NO LONGER SO CONFUSED. 


TOO, PETUNIA. 
ALL YOU HAVE 
TO DO IS FOCUS ON YOUR 





"SO THAT'S WHAT I'M GOING TO DO, 
MONKEYSTAR. BEGINNING RIGHT NOW." 


WHERE'VE YOU 
BEEN? 
ose 


ETS 


I HAVEN'T SEEN PETUNIA 
LOOKING THAT HAPPY IN... 
WELL, EVER. 


AND IT'S CLEAR THAT 
THAT WAS YOUR DOING. 


= 
YOU'RE GOING TO 
MAKE A FINE LEADER, 
MONKEYSTAR. 





About the Author 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a 
fascination with the ferocity of the natural world. In addition 
to having great respect for nature in all its forms, Erin enjoys 
creating rich mythical explanations for animal behavior. She 
is also the author of the Seekers, Survivors, and Bravelands 
series. 


Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at hc.com. 


Books by Erin Hunter 


SUPER EDITIONS 


Firestar 5 Quest 
Bluestar 5 Prophecy 
SkyClan $ Destiny 
Crookedstar 5 Promise 
Yellowfang 5 Secret 
Tallstar 5 Revenge 
Bramblestar s Storm 
Moth Flights Vision 
Hawkwing 5 Journey 
Tigerheart 5 Shadow 
Crowfeather 5 Trial 
Squirrelf lights Hope 


Back Ads 





Check out WarriorCats.com to 


* Explore amazing fan art, stories, and videos 

• Have your say with polls and Warriors reactions 
• Ask questions at the Moonpool 

• Explore the full family tree 

• Read exclusives from Erin Hunter 

• Shop for exclusive merchandise 


* And more! 


Check Out the New Warrior Cats Hub App! 
4, Download on the GET ITON 
@ App Store > Google Play 














www.warriorcats.com * www.shelfstuff.com 








RAVELAND 


Heed the call of the wild in 
this action-packed series from 


Erin Hunter. 





Have you read them all? 
O #1: Broken Pride 
O #2: Code of Honor 
O #3: Blood and Bone 
O #4: Shifting Shadows 


O #5: The Spirit-Eaters 





O #6: Oathkeeper 


Also available as 


EN HAAS downloadable audios! 


то SERIES 





www.warriorcats.com/bravelands * www.shelfstuff.com 








OS 


THE BROKEN CODE 





Have you read them all? 
O #1: Lost Stars 
O #2: The Silent Thaw 
O #3: Veil of Shadows 
O #4: Darkness Within 


ERI NH UN TER 


I NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLING AUTHOR 











HARPER 


www.warriorcats.com * www.shelfstuff.com 





OK 





Dawn of the Clans 

Э #1: The Sun Trail 

Э #2: Thunder Rising 

D #3: The First Battle 

$ O #4: The Blazing Star 
| O #5: A Forest Divided 

D #6: Path of Stars 





The Prophecies Begin 
O #1: Into the Wild 

O #2: Fire and Ice 

D #3: Forest of Secrets 
D #4: Rising Storm 

O #5: A Dangerous Path 
2 #6: The Darkest Hour 


KIN Munt 


The New Prophecy 
D #1: Midnight 

2 #2: Moonrise 

2 #3: Dawn 

O #4: Starlight 

Э #5: Twilight 

Э #6: Sunset 


ANOS 


en 











л 








HARPER 


An f Harper 


How many have you read? 


Power of Three 

D #1: The Sight 

D #2: Dark River 

O #3: Outcast 

Э #4: Eclipse 

O #5: Long Shadows 
O #6: Sunrise 


Omen of the Stars 
Э #1: The Fourth Apprentice 
Э #2: Fading Echoes 
D #3: Night Whispers 
Э #4: Sign of the Moon 

: The Forgotten Warrior 
O #6: The Last Hope 





A Vision of Shadows 

O #1: The Apprentice’s Quest 
O #2: Thunder and Shadow 
О #3: Shattered Sky 

{ О #4: Darkest Night 

Э #5: River of Fire 

Э #6: The Raging Storm 


Select titles also available as audiobooks! 





rriorcats.com * www.shelfstuff.com 





SUPER EDITIONS 





J Firestar's Quest D Moth Flight’s Vision 
O Bluestar's Prophecy O Hawkwing's Journey 
O SkyClan’s Destiny D Tigetheart’s Shadow 
D Crookedstar’s Promise O Crowfeather's Trial 
J Yellowfang's Secret D Squirrelflight’s Hope 
O Tallstar’s Revenge O Graystripe’s Vow 





> Bramblestar's Storm 


GUIDES FULL-COLOR GRAPHIC NOVELS 








Es asm aM D Secrets of the Clans \ RRID 
: O Cats of the С 


Р 

TA ARRIOR s 
VIRON > Code of the Clans 

O Battles of the Clans 


O Enter the Clans 
O The Ultimate Guide 





O Graystripe’s Adventure 
O Ravenpaw’s Path 

O SkyClan and the Stranger 
O A Shadow in RiverClan 











EBOOKS AND NOVELLAS 





The Untold Stories Shadows of the Clans Path of a Warrior 
О Hollyleaf's Story О Mapleshade’s Vengeance О Redtail’s Debt 

O Mistystar's Omen О Goosefeather’s Curse D Tawnypelt’s Clan 
O Cloudstar's Journey О Ravenpaw's Farewell O Shadowstar's Life 
Tales from the Clans Legends of the Clans A Warrior's Spirit 

O Tigerclaw's Fury Spottedleaf’s Heart J Pebbleshine's Kits 
O Leafpool's Wish O Pinestar's Choice D Tree’s Roots 





O Dovewing’s Silence О Thunderstar's Echo D Mothwing’s Secret 








HARPER 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers 


www.warriorcats.com + www.shelfstuff.com 








Don’t miss these other Erin Hunter series! 





Survivors 

O #1: The Empty City 
O #2: A Hidden Enemy 
O #3: Darkness Falls 
O #4: The Broken Path 
O #5: The Endless Lake 
O #6: Storm of Dogs 





Seekers 
O #1: The Quest Begins 
: Great Bear Lake 
: Smoke Mountain 
: The Last Wilderness 
: Fire in the Sky 
О #6: Spirits in the Stars 





SURVIVORS, 








Во, Д 








HARPER 


An Imprint of 


www.sk 


Mins Publishers 


stuff.com 


Survivors: 

The Gathering Darkness 
O #1: A Pack Divided 

Э #2: Dead of Night 

O #3: Into the Shadows 
O #4: Red Moon Rising 
O #5: The Exile's Journey 
O #6: The Final Battle 


Seekers: Return to the Wild 
2 #1: Island of Shadows 

D #2: The Melting Sea 

Э #3: River of Lost Bears 

J #4: Forest of Wolves 

Э #5: The Burning Horizon 
) #6: The Longest Day 


www.warriorcats.com/survivors * www.warriorcats.com/seekers 








Copyright 


WARRIORS SUPER EDITION: GRAYSTRIPE’S VOW. Copyright © 
2020 by Working Partners Ltd. Series created by Working Partners 
Ltd. Map art © 2015, 2018 by Dave Stevenson. Interior art © 2020 
by Owen Richardson. Comic text © 2020 by Working Partners Ltd. 

Comic art © 2020 by HarperCollins Publishers. All rights reserved 
under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By 

payment of the required fees, you have been granted the 
nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this 
e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, 

transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, or stored in 

or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in 

any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now 
known or hereafter invented, without the express written permission 

of HarperCollins e-books. 
www.harpercollinschildrens.com 


Cover art © 2020 by Owen Richardson 
Series cover design by Ellice M. Lee 


| u | 


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 


Names: Hunter, Erin, author. 

Title: Graystripe’s vow / Erin Hunter. 

Description: First edition. | New York : HarperCollins Children’s 
Books, [2020] | Series: Warriors super edition ; 13 | Summary: 
“During a time of great turmoil and amid silence from StarClan, 


respected ThunderClan warrior Graystripe must break a promise from 
his past and leave his Clan behind for a quest to heal his past and 
uncover his future”— Provided by publisher. 

Identifiers: LCCN 2020018203 | ISBN 978-0-06-296302-4 
(hardcover) | ISBN 978-0-06-296303-1 (library binding) 

Subjects: CYAC: Cats—Fiction. | Fantasy. 

Classification: LCC PZ7.H916625 Gp 2020 | DDC [Fic]-—dc23 

LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2020018203 


АЫ | 


Digital Edition SEPTEMBER 2020 ISBN: 978-0-06-296305-5 


20 21 22 23 24 PC/LSCH 10987654321 


e 
*? 


FIRST EDITION 


About the Publisher 


Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 


www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd 
Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower 
22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor 
Toronto, Ontario, M5H 4E3 


www.harpercollins.ca 


India 
HarperCollins India 
A 75, Sector 57 
Noida 
Uttar Pradesh 201 301 


www.harpercollins.co.in 


New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 
Rosedale 0632 


Auckland, New Zealand 
www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
1 London Bridge Street 
London SEI 9GF, UK 


www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
195 Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 


www.harpercollins.com 


