
PROLOGUE 


Starlight shone down into a large cavern through a 
ragged hole in the roof. The faint silver sheen was just 
enough to show a tall rock jutting from the floor in the 
center of the cave, flanked by soaring rock walls, and 
at one side, the dark, gaping hole of a tunnel entrance. 
The shadows in the mouth of the tunnel thickened, and 
six cats emerged into the cavern. Their leader, a 
speckled gray tom with clumped, untidy fur, padded up 
to the rock and turned to face the others. 

“Sagewhisker, Hawkheart, Milkfur,’ he began, 
nodding to each cat as he named them, “we, the 
medicine cats of the four Clans, are here to carry out 
one of our most important ceremonies: the creation of 
a new medicine cat apprentice.” 

Two more cats lingered by the tunnel entrance, their 
eyes huge in the half-light. One of them shuffled his 
paws as if they had frozen to the cold stone. 

“For StarClan’s sake, Goosefeather, get on with it,” 
Hawkheart muttered with an impatient twitch of his 
tail. 


Goosefeather glared at him, then turned to the two 
young cats by the tunnel. “Featherpaw, are you 
ready?” he asked. 

The bigger of the two, a silver-pelted tom, gave a 
nervous nod. “T guess so,” he mewed. 

“Then come here and stand before the Moonstone,” 
Goosefeather directed. “Soon it will be time to share 
tongues with StarClan.” 

Featherpaw hesitated. “But I ... I don’t know what 
to say when I meet our ancestors.” 

“You'll know,” the other young cat told him. Her 
white pelt glimmered as she touched his shoulder with 
her muzzle. “I?ll be awesome, you'll see. Just as it 
was when I became Milkfur’s apprentice!” 

“Thanks, Bramblepaw,” Featherpaw murmured. 

He padded up to Goosefeather, while Sagewhisker, 
Milkfur, and Hawkheart sat a couple of tail-lengths 
away. Bramblepaw took her place at her mentor’s 
side. 

Suddenly the moon appeared through the hole in the 
roof, shedding a dazzling white light into the cave. 
Featherpaw halted and blinked in astonishment as the 
Moonstone woke into glittering life, blazing with silver. 


Goosefeather stepped forward to stand over him. 
“Featherpaw,” he meowed, “is it your wish to share 
the deepest knowledge of StarClan as a ThunderClan 
medicine cat?” 

Featherpaw nodded. “Yes,” he replied, his voice 
coming out as a breathless croak. He cleared his throat 
and tried again. “It is.” 

“Then follow me.” 

Goosefeather turned, beckoning with his tail, and 
took the few paces that brought him close to the 
Moonstone. His pale blue eyes shone like twin moons 
as he spoke. “Warriors of StarClan, I present to you 
this apprentice. He has chosen the path of a medicine 
cat. Grant him your wisdom and insight so that he may 
understand your ways and heal his Clan in accordance 
with your will.” Flicking his tail at Featherpaw, he 
whispered, “Lie down here, and press your nose 
against the stone.” 

Quickly Featherpaw obeyed, settling himself close to 
the stone and reaching out to touch its glimmering 
surface with his nose. The other medicine cats moved 
up beside him, taking similar positions all around the 
stone. In the silence and the brilliant light, the new 


medicine cat apprentice closed his eyes. 


Featherpaw’s eyes blinked open and he sprang to 
his paws. He was standing chest-deep in lush grass, in 
a Clearing of a sunlit forest. Above his head, the trees 
rustled in the warm breeze. The air was laden with the 
scent of prey and damp fern. 

“Hi, Featherpaw!” 

The young tom spun around. Approaching him 
through the grass was a tabby-and-white she-cat with 
blue eyes; she gave him a friendly flick with her tail as 
she drew closer. 

Featherpaw stared at her. “M-Mallowfur!” he 
gasped. “I’ve missed you so much!” 

“I may be a warrior of StarClan now, but I am 
always with you, my dear,’ Mallowfur purred. “It’s 
good to see you here, Featherpaw. I hope it’s the first 
time of many.” 

“I hope so, too,” Featherpaw responded. 

Mallowfur kept walking, brushing through the grass 
until she joined a ginger tom at the edge of the trees; 
together the two StarClan cats vanished into the 
undergrowth. Close to the spot where they had 
disappeared, another StarClan warrior crouched beside 


a small pool, lapping at the water. Heartbeats later, a 
squirrel dashed across the clearing and swarmed up 
the trunk of an oak tree, with two more of 
Featherpaw’s starry ancestors hard on its tail. 

Featherpaw heard his name being called again. 
“Hey, Featherpaw! Over here!” 

Featherpaw glanced around the clearing. His gaze 
fell on a black tom, almost hidden in the shadows under 
a holly bush. He was small and skinny, his muzzle gray 
with age. 

The dark-furred cat beckoned with his tail. “Over 
here!” he repeated, his voice low and urgent. “Are 
your paws stuck to the ground?” 

Featherpaw shouldered his way through the long 
grasses until he stood in front of the tom. “Who are 
you? What do you want?” 

“My name is Molepelt,” the cat replied. “I have a 
message for you.” 

Featherpaw’s eyes stretched wide. “A message 
from StarClan, my first time here?” he breathed. 
“Wow, that’s so great.” 

Molepelt let out an irritable grunt. “You might not 
think so, when you’ve heard what it is.” 


“Go on.” 

Molepelt fixed him with an icy green gaze. “A dark 
force is on its way,” he rasped, “with the power to 
pierce deep into the heart of ThunderClan. And it will 
be brought by a ShadowClan medicine cat.” 

“What?” Featherpaw’s voice rose to a high-pitched 
squeak. “That can’t be right. Medicine cats have no 
enemies, and they don’t cause trouble for other 
Clans.” 

Molepelt ignored his protest. “A long time ago, I was 
the ShadowClan medicine cat,’ he went on. “My 
Clanmates and I did a great wrong to another Clan—a 
Clan that belonged in the forest as much as any of us, 
but was driven out through our selfishness and hard- 
heartedness. I knew then that what we did was wrong, 
and I have waited, my heart filled with dread, for the 
Clans to be punished.” 

“Punished? How?” Featherpaw asked hoarsely. 

“The time has come!” Molepelt’s green eyes were 
wide, and he seemed to be gazing into the far distance. 
“A poison will spring from the heart of ShadowClan, 
and spread to all the other Clans.” His voice became a 
soft, eerie wailing. “A storm of blood and fire will 


sweep the forest!” 

Featherpaw gazed at the old cat in horror. Before he 
could speak, a powerful black-and-white tom pushed 
his way through a clump of ferns and padded up to the 
holly bush. 

“Molepelt, what are you doing?” he demanded. 
“Why are you spilling all this to a ThunderClan 
apprentice? You don’t know that this is the time!” 

Molepelt snorted. “You were once my apprentice, 
Hollowbelly, and don’t you forget it! I Anow I’m right.” 

Hollowbelly glanced at Featherpaw, then back at 
Molepett. “Things are different now,” he meowed. 

“What do you mean? What’s going to happen?” 
Featherpaw asked, his voice shaking. 

Hollowbelly ignored him. “There’s no reason to 
punish ShadowClan,” he continued. “What happened 
was too long ago. The medicine cat code will keep the 
Clans safe.” 

“Yowre a fool, Hollowbelly,’ Molepelt growled. 
“The medicine cat code can do nothing to save the 
Clans.” 

“You don’t know that for sure!” When Molepelt did 
not respond, Hollowbelly turned to Featherpaw. 


“Please, say nothing about this,” he meowed. “There is 
no need to spread alarm, not when the future is lost in 
mist even to StarClan. Promise me that you won’t tell 
any of your Clanmates. Promise on the lives of your 
ancestors!” 

Featherpaw blinked. “I promise,” he whispered. 

Hollowbelly nodded. “Thank you, Featherpaw. Go 
well.” Nudging Molepelt to his paws, he led the old 
medicine cat away into the trees. 

Featherpaw gazed after them. After a few 
heartbeats he scrambled out from underneath the holly 
bush and staggered into the sunlit clearing. “Even if 
Molepelt was telling the truth, it makes no sense!” he 
meowed out loud. “How can ThunderClan be 
threatened by a ShadowClan medicine cat?” 





CHAPTER 1 
w& 


“~ 
“ShadowClan warriors, attack!” 

Yellowkit burst out of the nursery and hurtled across 
the ShadowClan camp. Her littermates, Nutkit and 
Rowankit, scurried after her. 

Nutkit pounced on a pinecone that lay at the foot of 
one of the pine trees overhanging the clearing. “It’s a 
WindClan warrior!” he squealed, batting at it with tiny 
brown paws. “Get out of our territory!” 

“Rabbit-chasers!” Rowankit flexed her claws, 
growling. “Prey-stealers!” 

Yellowkit leaped at a straying tendril from the 
brambles that encircled the camp; her paws got 
tangled in it and she lost her balance, rolling over in a 
flurry of legs and tail. Scrambling to her feet, she 
crouched in front of the bramble, her teeth bared in a 
growl. “Trip me up, would you?” she squeaked, raking 
her claws across its leaves. “Take that!” 

Nutkit began to scan the clearing, peering around 
with narrowed amber eyes. “Can you see any more 
WindClan warriors on our territory?” he asked. 


Yellowkit spotted a group of elders sharing tongues 
in a shaft of sunlight. “Yes! Over there!” she yowled. 

Nutkit and Rowankit followed her as she raced 
across the hard brown earth and skidded to a halt in 
front of the elders. 

“WindClan warriors!” Yellowkit began, trying to 
sound as dignified as her Clan leader, Cedarstar. “Do 
you agree that ShadowClan is the best of all the 
Clans? Or do you need to feel our claws in your fur to 
persuade you?” 

Littlebird, her ginger pelt glowing in the warm light, 
sat up, giving the other elders an amused glance. “No, 
you’re far too fierce for us,” she meowed. “We don’t 
want to fight.” 

“Do you promise to let our warriors cross your 
territory whenever they want?” Rowankit growled. 

“We promise.” Silverflame, the mother of 
Yellowkit’s mother, Brightflower, flattened herself to 
the ground and blinked fearfully up at the kits. 

Lizardfang cringed away from the three kits, 
shuffling his skinny brown limbs. “ShadowClan is much 
stronger than us.” 

“Yes!” Yellowkit bounced up in the ar. 


“ShadowClan is the best!” In her excitement she 
leaped on top of Nutkit, rolling over and over with him 
in a knot of gray and brown fur. 

I’m going to be the best warrior in the best Clan 
in the forest! she thought with glee. 

She broke away from Nutkit and scrambled to her 
paws. “You be a WindClan warrior now,” she urged. “T 
know some awesome battle moves!” 

“Battle moves?” a scornful voice broke in. “You? 
You’re only a kit!” 

Yellowkit spun around to see Raggedkit and his 
littermate, Scorchkit, standing a couple of tail-lengths 
away. 

“And what are you?” she demanded, facing up to 
the big dark tabby tom. “You and Scorchkit were still 
kits, last time I looked.” 

“But we’ll be apprentices soon,” Raggedkit retorted. 
“Tt’ll be moons and moons before you start training.” 

“Yeah.” Scorchkit licked one ginger paw and drew it 
over his ear. “We’ll be warriors by then.” 

“In your dreams!” Rowankit bounded up to stand 
next to Yellowkit, while Nutkit flanked her on her other 
side. “There are rabbits who'd make better warriors 


than you two.” 

Scorchkit crouched down, his muscles tensed to leap 
at them, but Raggedkit blocked him with his tail 
“They’re not worth it,’ he mewed loftily. “Come on, 
runts, watch us and we’ll show you some real battle 
moves.” 

“You’re not our mentors!” Nutkit snapped. “All you 
know how to do is mess up our game.” 

“Your game!” Raggedkit rolled his eyes. “Like you 
wouldn’t go squealing into the nursery if WindClan 
really attacked our camp.” 

“Would not!” Rowankit exclaimed. 

Raggedkit and Scorchkit ignored her, turning their 
backs on the younger kits. “You attack me first,” 
Scorchkit ordered. Raggedkit dashed past his 
littermate, aiming a blow at Scorchkit’s ear. Scorchkit 
swung away and pounced on Raggedkit’s tail 
Raggedkit rolled over onto his back, all four paws 
ready to defend himself. 

Annoyed as she was, Yellowkit couldn’t help 
admiring the older toms. Her paws itched to practice 
their battle moves, but she knew that she and her 
littermates would only get sneered at if they tried. 


“Come on!” Nutkit nudged her. “Let’s go and see if 
there are any mice in the brambles.” 

“You won’t catch any, even if there are,’ Raggedkit 
meowed, rising to his paws and shaking debris from his 
fur. 

“I wasn’t talking to you.” Nutkit’s fur bristled and he 
bared tiny, needle-sharp teeth. “Kittypet!” 

For a moment all five kittens froze. Yellowkit could 
feel her heart pounding. Like her littermates, she had 
heard the elders gossiping, wondering who had 
fathered Raggedkit and Scorchkit, asking one another 
if it could be true that Featherstorm’s mate had been a 
kittypet. The young she-cat had often strayed into 
Twolegplace, and she’d never been obviously close to 
any of the toms in the Clan. But Yellowkit knew that it 
was something you should never, never say out loud. 

Raggedkit took a pace closer to Nutkit, stiff-legged 
with fury. “What did you call me?” he snarled, his 
voice dangerously quiet. 

Nutkit’s eyes were wide and scared, but he didn’t 
back down. “Kittypet!” he repeated. 

A low growl came from Raggedkit’s throat. 
Scorchkit’s gaze darkened and he flexed his claws. 


Neither of them looked one bit like a soft, fluffy 
kittypet. Yellowkit braced herself to defend her 
littermate. 

“Nutkit!” 

Yellowkit turned at the sound of her mother’s voice. 
Brightflower was standing beside the thornbush that 
shielded the nursery hollow. Her orange tabby tail was 
twitching in annoyance. 

“Nutkit, if you can’t play sensibly, then you’d better 
come back here. You too, Yellowkit and Rowankit. I 
won’t have you fighting.” 

“Not fair,’ Nutkit muttered as all three littermates 
began trailing toward the nursery. He scuffed his paws 
through the pine needles on the ground. “They started 
it.” 

“They’re just stupid kittypets,’ Rowankit whispered. 

Yellowkit couldn’t resist glancing over her shoulder 
as she reached the thornbush. Raggedkit and Scorchkit 
stood in the middle of the clearing, glaring after them. 
The force of Raggedkit’s anger scared her and 
fascinated her at the same time. Behind it she could 
sense something else: a black space that echoed with 
fearful questioning. She thought of her own father, 


Brackenfoot, who told stories of patrols and hunting 
and Gatherings at Fourtrees, who let his kits scramble 
all over him and pretended to be a fox so they could 
attack him. Yellowkit loved him and wanted to be like 
him. 

What must it be like, not to know who your 
father is? Especially if every cat thinks he was a 
kittypet? 

Then Yellowkit realized that Raggedkit’s gaze had 
locked with hers. With a squeak of alarm she ducked 
underneath the branches and tumbled down into the 
nursery after her littermates. 





CHAPTER 2 
w& 


a 
“I’m bored,” Nutkit complained. “Lets go play in 
the warriors’ den.” 

Yellowkit blinked at him. “Are you mouse-brained? 
The warriors will rip our pelts off.” 

Three sunrises had passed since the quarrel with 
Raggedkit and Scorchkit. Yellowkit still felt uneasy 
around them, and tried to avoid them around the camp. 

“You’re a scaredy-mouse!” Nutkit taunted her. “Go 
on—peek under the bush. I dare you!” 

I cant back down now, Yellowkit thought, bracing 
herself as she gazed across the clearing to the thick 
bramble bush where the warriors slept. Like all the 
ShadowClan dens, theirs was a shallow dip in the 
ground, sheltered by tightly woven thorns and enclosed 
by the circle of brambles. The dens surrounded a 
clearing beneath pine trees, with the entrance to the 
camp at one end and a large lichen-covered rock, 
known as the Clanrock, at the other. 

Rowankit nudged Yellowkit. “Don’t do it! 
Brightflower’s got her eye on us. Look over there.” 


She angled her ears to where Brightflower and 
Brackenfoot were sharing a vole beside the fresh-kill 
pile. In between mouthfuls, Brightflower was turning 
her head to check up on her kits. 

A wave of affection for her mother washed over 
Yellowkit. l ’m glad I look like her, she thought. She 
had seen her own reflection in a puddle once, and 
almost thought she was gazing at a tiny copy of 
Brightflower. Though her pelt was gray, not orange 
tabby like her mother’s, she had the same broad, flat 
face, snub nose, and wide-set amber eyes. 

I want to be just like her, and just like my father, 
Yellowkit thought. A warrior and a queen. I'll have 
lots of kits, and I'll bring them up to be great 
warriors for our Clan. 

“I know a game!” she announced. “You be my kits, 
and I’ Il teach you how to catch frogs.” 

“Okay!” Rowankit sat in front of Yellowkit, and 
wrapped her tail neatly around her paws. 

Nutkit rolled his eyes, but said nothing as he came to 
sit beside Rowanktt. 

Yellowkit let out a hiss. “I never saw such untidy 
kits,” she scolded. “Nutkit, have you been rolling 


around in the brambles? And Rowankit, just look at 
your chest fur. Give it a good lick right now!” 

Rowankit let out a tiny mrrow of amusement as she 
started to lick her chest fur. Nutkit wriggled as 
Yellowkit used her claws to pick imaginary thorns out 
of his pelt. 

“This is a dumb game,” he muttered. “And your 
pelt’s not so great, either.” 

Yellowkit gave him a light swat around the ear. 
“Don’t you dare speak to your mother like that!” 

She stood back, checking her littermates’ fur 
carefully, then nodded. “Much better. Now, kits, listen 
up. We’re going to learn how to catch a frog. Nutkit, 
pay attention!” She flicked her tail over her brother’s 
ear as he watched the jerky flight of a white butterfly. 
“The most important thing to remember about frogs is 
that they jump.” 

“Can I be the frog? Can I?” Rowankit asked, 
bouncing up and down in excitement. “I can jump 
really high!” 

Yellowkit let out a sigh of exasperation. “No! 
You’ve got to listen.” 

Brightflower was padding across the clearing 


toward them. Her eyes were warm and amused. “That 
looks like a good game,” she meowed. “Yellowkit, 
you'll make a great queen one day.” 

“And a warrior!” Yellowkit insisted. 

“Of course,” Brightflower purred. “If that’s what 
you want.” 

“It is! PI be the best—” Yellowkit broke off as she 
spotted Cedarstar emerging from his den beneath the 
oak tree. 

The Clan leader bounded across the clearing and 
leaped up onto the Clanrock. “Let all cats old enough 
to catch their own prey join here beneath the Clanrock 
for a meeting!” he yowled. 

Yellowkit turned to her mother. “What’s 
happening?” 

“Wait and see,” Brightflower replied. “Come sit with 
me and your father.” 

Sweeping her tail around all three kits, Brightflower 
led them across the clearing to where Brackenfoot sat 
beside the fresh-kill pile. Meanwhile, more of the Clan 
cats were gathering. Sagewhisker, the medicine cat, 
slid out from her den in the shadow of the Clanrock 
and sat down facing her leader. Poolcloud, her belly 


heavy with kits, hauled herself out of the nursery and 
padded slowly over to the entrance of the warriors’ 
den, where her mate, Toadskip, had just appeared. 
Toadskip’s apprentice, Ashpaw, bounded up to join 
them. The other two apprentices, Frogpaw and 
Newtpaw, broke off their play fight, shook their pelts, 
and sat down to listen. Crowtail, Archeye, and 
Hollyflower pushed their way out of the warriors’ den. 

Finally Raggedkit and Scorchkit appeared from the 
nursery, followed by their mother, Featherstorm. Their 
fur was gleaming and they paced proudly across the 
camp to stand at the front of the crowd of cats. 

Yellowkit suddenly realized what was going on. 
“They’re being made apprentices!” 

“Shh!” Brightflower responded. “Nutkit, stop 
scratching your ear.” 

“I wish it was our turn,’ Nutkit whispered to 
Yellowkit. “We’ve got to wait forever.” 

Yellowkit nodded. “Four whole moons.” Raggedkit 
and Scorchkit look so grown-up, she thought. J cant 
believe I'll ever be an apprentice. 

Cedarstar looked down at the two older kits. “Cats 
of ShadowClan,” he began. “Today we are gathered 


for—” 

Yellowkit squirmed, trying to get comfortable. Her 
hind paw was tingling as if she’d stepped on a thorn. 
She twisted around, lifting her pad in an attempt to see 
It. 

Cedarstar broke off, looking down at her. 

“Yellowkit!” Brightflower hissed. “Stop wriggling!” 

“T’ve got a thorn in my paw!” Yellowkit wailed. 

“Keep still, then. Let me look.” Brightflower peered 
at Yellowkit’s paw, then gave it a brief sniff. “There’s 
nothing there,” she snapped. “Stop fussing and listen to 
Cedarstar.” 

Yellowkit realized that all of her Clanmates were 
staring at her. She wished that she could sink into the 
earth floor of the camp and disappear. “Sorry,” she 
muttered, hanging her head. Her paw was still painful, 
but she gritted her teeth and tried to ignore it. 

“Cats of ShadowClan,” Cedarstar began again, “we 
are here for one of the most important ceremonies in 
the life of any Clan, the making of new apprentices. 
Raggedkit and Scorchkit have reached their sixth 
moon, and it is time for them to begin their training.” 

A murmur of appreciation came from the 


surrounding cats, though Yellowkit heard a quiet 
comment from Toadskip, who was sitting nearby. 
“Training half kittypets!” he murmured into Archeye’s 
ear. “We’ll be making hedgehogs into apprentices 
next.” 

Yellowkit started to bristle, but Raggedkit and 
Scorchkit hadn’t overheard their Clanmate’s unkind 
words. The two kits stood with their heads and tails 
erect and their whiskers quivering; Yellowkit thought 
they looked as if they would burst with pride. 

“Raggedkit, come forward.” Cedarstar beckoned to 
the dark tabby tom with his tail. “Brackenfoot,”’ he 
went on, “you are ready for another apprentice, and 
you will be mentor to Raggedpaw. I trust you will pass 
on to him your warrior skills and your loyalty to your 
Clan.” 

My father is going to be Raggedpaw’s mentor! A 
tingle of jealousy shot through Yellowkit. Now 
Brackenfoot will spend more time with Raggedpaw 
than he does with us. 

Brackenfoot dipped his head. “You can trust me, 
Cedarstar,” he meowed. 

Raggedpaw trotted toward him, and Brackenfoot 


stepped forward to touch noses with his new 
apprentice. 

As they withdrew into the circle of watching cats, 
Cedarstar called Scorchkit forward. “Crowtail, 
Scorchpaw will be your first apprentice,’ the Clan 
leader meowed. “You have proven yourself as a 
warrior and I know you will pass on all that you have 
learned to him.” 

Her eyes shining, the small black she-cat padded to 
the Clanrock and gazed up at her leader. “PI do my 
best, Cedarstar,” she responded. 

Scorchpaw bounded over to her, and the two cats 
touched noses. 

“Raggedpaw! Scorchpaw!” Every cat in the Clan 
yowled the new names and pressed forward to 
congratulate the two new apprentices. But Yellowkit 
and her littermates hung back. 

“They’re not so great,’ Nutkit muttered. “Wait till 
we’re apprentices. We’ ll show them!” 

Now that the meeting was over, Yellowkit flopped 
down on one side and brought her hind leg forward so 
that she could take a good look at her paw. Pain was 
still throbbing through it. But however much she 


probed between her pads, she couldn’t find the thorn. 
Sittng up, she saw that Brackenfoot and Crowtail 
were leading their new apprentices through the gap in 
the brambles that circled the camp. 

They’re going to see the territory, Yellowkit 
thought enviously. J wish I could go with them. But 
right now she could hardly put her hind paw to the 
ground. Maybe I should go see Sagewhisker. 

But as Yellowkit made her way toward the medicine 
cat’s den, hopping awkwardly on three legs, she saw a 
patrol emerging from the tunnel into the camp. 
Mudclaw was in the lead with Mousewing; both were 
carrying mice. Nettlespot followed, dragging along a 
squirrel nearly as big as she was. Deerleap, one of the 
most senior warriors, had caught a blackbird. Last of 
all came the young pale brown warrior Lizardstripe, 
limping as if her hind paw was hurting her too. 

“Better see Sagewhisker about that thorn,” 
Mudclaw mumbled around his mouthful of prey. “Your 
paw might get infected if it’s not seen to.” 

‘Tm on my way.” Lizardstripe sounded irritated. 
“This is the last time I go chasing mice underneath a 
thornbush.” She limped past Yellowkit and vanished 


between the rocks into the medicine cat’s den. 

Yellowkit waited patiently until Lizardstripe emerged 
again, this time walking almost normally. “Thanks, 
Sagewhisker,” the warrior called over her shoulder. 

Sagewhisker poked her head out from her den. 
“Give it a good lick,’ she instructed. “And see me 
again tomorrow so I can make sure it hasn’t gotten 
infected.” 

Yellowkit stumbled forward, ready to tell 
Sagewhisker about the thorn in her own foot, but when 
she put her hind paw on the ground, she realized the 
pain had gone. The thorn must have fallen out. She 
looked around her, trying to see it on the grass, but 
there was nothing that looked sharp enough. Oh well, 
as long as it doesnt hurt anymore. She pressed her 
paw harder on the ground, making sure it was truly 
better. 

“Hey, Yellowkit!” Rowankit’s voice interrupted her. 

Yellowkit looked up to see both her littermates 
standing beside a broken tree stump not far from the 
elders’ den. New branches had started to sprout from 
the remains of the trunk, making a shady cave. 

“Come over here!” Nutkit squealed. “We’ve found 


a fox and her cubs. We’ve got to drive them out of our 
camp!” 

For a heartbeat Yellowkit believed him, and her neck 
fur bristled. Then she realized this was just another 
game. Oh, yes, the elders will make really scary 
foxes! 

Silverflame was peering out of the elders’ den as 
Yellowkit bounded over to join her littermates. Her fur 
stood on end and her teeth were bared. “This is our 
den!” Silverflame hissed. “Stay away, or PI strip your 
fur off and feed you to my cubs!” 

“Go on, attack them!” Littlebird peered over 
Silverflame’s shoulder. With her ginger pelt she looked 
a lot like a fox cub. “I just fancy a nice fat kit!” 

“No!” Yellowkit yowled. “This is ShadowClan’s 
camp! No foxes allowed!” 

She hurled herself at Silverflame, trying to grab 
ahold of the old she-cat’s fur. Silverflame batted at her 
with soft paws, her claws sheathed. Rowankit and 
Nutkit raced past them into the den. 

“Out! Out!” Nutkit squeaked. 

Yellowkit and Silverflame rolled into the open; 
Yellowkit ended up on top, clinging to Silverflame’s 


belly fur. “Do you give in?” she demanded. “No more 
eating cats?” 

“No more, I promise,” Silverflame responded. Then 
she let out a gusty sigh. “Go on, my old bones won’t 
stand much more of this.” As Yellowkit bounced off 
her, Silverflame sat up and shook her gray-and-orange 
pelt, panting a little as she caught her breath. She 
blinked affectionately at Yellowkit and a purr rose in 
her throat. “Well fought, little one,” she mewed. “I can 
see you’re going to be one of the best warriors in 
ShadowClan.” 

You’re right about that, thought Yellowkit, her 
chest swelling with pride. Watch out, foxes! 





CHAPTER 3 
w& 


“a 
Yellowkit found it hard to get to sleep that night. She 
had often complained about the nursery seeming too 
crowded, but now that Raggedpaw and Scorchpaw 
had left for the apprentices’ den, it felt oddly empty. 
Featherstorm had returned to the warriors’ den, so the 
only cats in the nursery besides Yellowkit and her 
littermates were Brightflower and Poolcloud, whose 
kits were close to being born. 

I'll never get to sleep if Poolcloud keeps 
snoring, Yellowkit thought crossly, wriggling around in 
the moss and pine needles that lined the floor of the 
nursery. 

“Keep still” Brightflower mewed drowsily. “How is 
a cat supposed to get any rest?” 

With a snort of annoyance Yellowkit curled up and 
wrapped her tail over her nose. Peering over the top of 
it, she could just make out Rowankit tucked close into 
their mother’s side, and Nutkit sprawled on the moss, 
his legs and tail twitching as if he was dreaming about 
racing through the forest. 


I wish StarClan would send me a good dream, 
Yellowkit thought. 

She slept at last, only to wake again with a start. A 
faint dawn light was filtering through the brambles. 
Poolcloud was still snoring softly; Brightflower and 
Rowankit were curled up together. Nutkit was 
squirming about in the bedding, letting out soft moans 
of pain. 

Yellowkit realized what had woken her; her belly felt 
heavy, and every couple of heartbeats pain shot 
through it. J guess Nutkit’s belly is hurting, too. She 
prodded her brother gently with one paw. “Do you 
have cramps in your belly?” she whispered. 

Nutkit’s eyes blinked open and he peered blearily at 
his sister. “How do you know?” 

“My belly is aching too,” Yellowkit retorted, wincing 
as another deep cramp coursed through her. She 
pressed her belly hard against the moss as if she could 
squash the pain out of it. “We’ve got to tell 
Brightflower,” she grunted. “She’Il get Sagewhisker.” 

“No!” Nutkit’s eyes stretched wide with alarm. 
“Yellowkit, don’t, please.” 

“Why not?” Yellowkit asked. She narrowed her 


eyes at her brother. “What have you been up to?” 

Before Nutkit could reply, Brightflower raised her 
head, twitching her whiskers in annoyance. “Will you 
kits settle down?” she began. “This isn’t the time for 
playing. You—” She broke off and her gaze grew 
more intent, swiveling from Nutkit to Yellowkit and 
back again. “What’s the matter?” 

“Our bellies are hurting,’ Yellowkit replied, her 
words ending with a low wail as another wave of pain 
surged over her. “Please get Sagewhisker.” 

Before she had finished speaking, Brightflower had 
risen to her paws, careful not to disturb the sleeping 
Rowankit, and padded across the moss to give each of 
her kits a careful sniff. “Have you been eating 
something you shouldn’t?” she asked. “Tell me quickly, 
now. Sagewhisker will need to know.” 

“No, I—” Another gasp of pain interrupted Nutkit. 
“All right,” he went on when he could speak again. “I 
found a dead sparrow among the brambles yesterday. I 
only tasted it to see what it was like ...” 

“Nutkit!” Brightflower let out a sigh of exasperation. 
“You know what I’ve told you about eating crow-food. 
You too, Yellowkit. How could you be so stupid?” 


“But I didn’t!” Yellowkit protested. 

Her mother gazed at her sternly. “Eating crow-food 
is bad, and lying about it is even worse,” she meowed. 

Hot indignation surged through Yellowkit, almost 
driving out the pain in her belly. “I’m not lying!” she 
insisted. “I never even saw the stupid sparrow! Tell 
her, Nutkit.” 

“I didn’t see Yellowkit there, but ...” Nutkit’s words 
ended in a groan. 

“And how do you suppose you got a bellyache if you 
didn’t eat it?” Brightflower twitched her tail-tip angrily. 
“I’m very disappointed in both of you, especially you, 
Yellowkit. Now come outside so you don’t disturb 
Rowankit and Poolcloud. I'll go get Sagewhisker.” 

Yellowkit didn’t argue any more as she scrambled 
out of the moss and pine needles. Still simmering with 
indignation, she clambered up the side of the hollow 
and wriggled under the branches of the thornbush. The 
sky above the pine trees was pale with the approach of 
dawn. Just inside the entrance to the camp, 
Mousewing was on guard, his black pelt barely visible 
against the brambles. He yawned and stretched, not 
noticing Brightflower as she bounded across the 


clearing to the medicine cat’s den. 

Wincing from the pain in her belly, Yellowkit flopped 
down beside her brother and waited for her mother to 
reemerge from the den with Sagewhisker. 

“You'd better tell Brightflower the truth about eating 
that sparrow,” Nutkit murmured. “You’re only making 
it worse for yourself.” 

“For the last time, I did not eat any dodgy sparrow,” 
Yellowkit snapped. “I’ve got more sense!” 

Nutkit gave her a disbelieving look, but said nothing 
more. A moment later Sagewhisker emerged from her 
den and trotted across to the nursery, followed closely 
by Brightflower. 

“Kits!” the medicine cat exclaimed, dropping a 
bundle of leaves as she halted in front of Yellowkit and 
Nutkit. “Tf it’s not one thing, it’s another. Have you no 
sense?” 

“What are you going to give us?” Yellowkit 
whimpered, sniffing at the leaves as another spasm 
cramped her belly. “Are you going to make us sick to 
get the bad stuff out of us?” 

Sagewhisker gazed at her intently. “That’s exactly 
what I’m going to do,” the medicine cat meowed. 


“And this is the herb we need for it: yarrow.” Bending 
her head, she gave Nutkit and then Yellowkit a long 
sniff. “Brightflower tells me you’ve been eating crow- 
food,” she continued. 

Nutkit let out a moan of pain. “It was only a 
mouthful ... two, maybe.” 

Sagewhisker sighed. “Or three, or four. Now you 
know why we teach kits not to do that.” 

“Will they be okay?” Brightflower fretted, giving 
Nutkit’s ears a comforting lick. 

“They'll be fine,’ Sagewhisker assured her. “Right, 
kits, I want you to eat this yarrow. It will make you 
sick and then your belly will feel a whole lot better.” 

Nutkit gave the herbs a suspicious glare. “Are they 
yucky?” 

The medicine cat nodded. “They are pretty yucky,” 
she admitted. “But would you rather have a yucky 
taste, or the bellyache?” 

‘TIl eat them ... I guess,” Nutkit responded. 

“Not here, please,” Brightflower mewed. “We don’t 
want a mess right outside the nursery.” 

In spite of Nutkit’s feeble protests, she picked him 
up by the scruff and carried him toward the edge of 


the camp. Sagewhisker padded alongside, carrying the 
yarrow, while Yellowkit followed, staggering a little as 
pain roiled through her insides. 

By now, the dawn light had strengthened; several 
warriors had emerged from their den, and Stonetooth, 
the Clan deputy, was organizing the dawn patrols. 
Yellowkit felt a pang of envy as she spotted 
Raggedpaw and Scorchpaw with their mentors. She 
quickened her pace, stumbling a little, hoping the 
apprentices wouldn’t spot her and ask what was 
happening. 

In the shelter of the thorns at the edge of the 
clearing, Sagewhisker laid a few yarrow leaves in front 
of Nutkit, and the rest of the bundle in front of 
Yellowkit. While Nutkit was still hesitating, Yellowkit 
lapped up the leaves, wincing as the bitter juices filled 
her mouth. 

“Yuck!” she gasped, gagging as she tried to 
swallow. 

After a few heartbeats she managed to force the 
vile stuff down. Almost at once she felt her belly give 
an enormous heave, and she vomited up several 
mouthfuls of slime. She passed her tongue over her 


lips, trying to get rid of the taste. 

“That’s good,” Sagewhisker murmured approvingly, 
as Nutkit too brought up the contents of his belly. 
“Brightflower, take them back to the nursery. They 
should sleep now. When they wake they can have 
some milk, but no food today. Pll check on them later.” 

“Thank you, Sagewhisker.” Brightflower dipped her 
head to the medicine cat. “And let that be a lesson to 
you,” she added to her kits. “No more crow-food.” 

“But I didn’t eat crow-food!” Yellowkit’s indignation 
surged up again now that her belly didn’t hurt 
anymore. Its not fair! Why wont any cat believe 
me? 

Brightflower let out a hiss. “No more!” she mewed. 
“I won’t punish you for lying this time, because you’ ve 
suffered enough, but don’t let it happen again.” 

Without waiting for Yellowkit to respond, she 
grabbed Nutkit by the scruff and headed for the 
nursery. Yellowkit padded after them, her head down 
and her tail drooping. Her belly was sore from 
vomiting, and she could still taste the bitter yarrow, but 
what made her really miserable was the thought that 
her mother believed she was a liar. 


Yellowkit pushed her way into the open, yawning 
and arching her back in a long stretch. She was bored. 
Behind her in the nursery, Nutkit was still asleep, half- 
buried in the moss as if he was exhausted from his 
disturbed night and his upset belly. 

But I feel fine, Yellowkit thought. Except my belly s 
growling. Brightflower had just reminded her that 
Sagewhisker had said she and Nutkit couldn’t have 
anything to eat until tomorrow. I’ll never last that 
long! Yellowkit wailed inwardly. PI be as weak as a 
mouse. 

Blinking, she gazed around the camp. Hollyflower 
and Crowtail were sharing tongues outside the 
warriors’ den, while the elders were gossiping in a 
patch of warm sun beside the tree stump. Yellowkit 
caught a scrap of their conversation. 

“. . . sent that WindClan warrior squealing all the 
way back to his camp,” Lizardfang meowed. “We 
didn’t put up with any nonsense from WindClan in my 
day, let me tell you.” 

“No, and not from ThunderClan either,” Silverflame 
purred. 

Yellowkit’s heart swelled with love for the old she- 


cat. Maybe if I go over there she’d tell me a story. 
Then she shook her head. No, more likely I'd have to 
listen to Lizardfang yakking on about all the 
WindClan warriors he chased off. 

In the middle of the clearing, Rowankit was playing 
by herself, tossing a ball of moss into the air and 
catching it on her tiny extended claws. Yellowkit didn’t 
feel like joining in. 

I wish I could go out and explore the territory 
like Raggedpaw and Scorchpaw. 

Flicking her tail and trying not to look as if she was 
going anywhere special, Yellowkit padded across the 
camp toward the fresh-kill pile. The sun was shining, 
and the patches of sky visible through the trees were a 
clear blue. But there was a chill in the air, and the 
leaves on the huge oak tree where Cedarstar made his 
den were beginning to turn yellow. Greenleaf was 
coming to an end. 

Yellowkit felt hungrier than ever when she 
approached the fresh-kill pile and the enticing scents of 
vole and squirrel flooded her jaws. She absolutely had 
to have something to eat if she was going to sneak out 
of the camp. 


One little mouse couldn t hurt.... 

“Hey, Yellowkit!” 

Yellowkit jumped guiltily. Turning to see who was 
calling her, she spotted Sagewhisker sunning herself at 
the entrance to her den. 

Uh-oh! 

“Nothing until tomorrow,” the medicine cat warned 
her. “I’m surprised you can even think about eating 
yet.” 

“T’m starving!” 

Sagewhisker stifled a purr of amusement. “Would 
you rather have a bellyache, little kit?” 

Yellowkit scuffled her forepaws in the earth of the 
camp floor. “I guess not.” 

“Why don’t you come and help me with a few 
things?” the medicine cat suggested. “All the 
apprentices are out, and I need someone to give me a 
paw sorting my herbs. It might take your mind off your 
empty belly.” 

“Okay.” Yellowkit perked up. She liked the sharp 
scents of herbs in the medicine cat’s den, and she 
needed something to stop herself from thinking about 
food. She followed Sagewhisker back into the den. 


Beyond the narrow entrance that lay between two 
boulders, a tiny clearmg opened out, edged by thick 
clumps of fern. At the far side a pool of clear water 
reflected the pine trees above. 

“The herbs are over here.” Sagewhisker padded to 
one side of the clearing. “I dig holes in the ground to 
keep them fresh, and cover them up with fern fronds.” 

She picked up one of the fronds and laid it aside. 
Yellowkit peered into the hole beneath; a few withered 
leaves lay at the bottom. 

“That’s marigold,” Sagewhisker meowed. “It’s good 
for infected wounds, but as you can see, those scraps 
aren’t much good. Lift them out and pile them up by 
the entrance. Later on I'll carry all the rubbish out of 
the camp.” 

While Yellowkit obeyed, Sagewhisker uncovered the 
next hole; it held only two or three shriveled berries. 

“Should I add those to the pile?” Yellowkit asked, 
dipping her paw into the hole, ready to scoop out the 
berries. 

Sagewhisker shook her head, flicking her tail across 
to block Yellowkit’s paw. “No, those are juniper 
berries. I know they’re past their best, but they’re so 


useful for bellyache and shortness of breath, I won’t 
dare throw them away until the fresh ones are ready. 
It won’t be long, thank StarClan.” 

Yellowkit nodded, giving the berries an interested 
sniff. ‘“Silverflame wheezes sometimes,’ she 
remarked. “Do you give her juniper berries?” 

“I do.” Sagewhisker dipped her head. “You’re 
learning fast, Yellowkit.” 

Yellowkit felt proud of herself. This is so useful! I'll 
know about herbs and everything when I’m a 
warrior! “What’s in the next hole?” she asked. 

“These are daisy leaves,’ Sagewhisker replied, 
uncovering a pile of fresh leaves. “Good for 
Lizardfang’s aching joints. I only collected them 
yesterday, so we don’t have to throw them out.” 

Yellowkit followed her along the row of holes, while 
Sagewhisker told her about each different herb and 
what they were used for, sorting out the withered ones 
so that Yellowkit could pile them up at the entrance. 

“There, finished!” Sagewhisker mewed at last, 
dusting off her paws. “Well done, Yellowkit. You’ve 
been a big help.” 

“It was fun,” Yellowkit replied, realizing with a start 


that it was true. J had no idea how much you have 
to learn to be a medicine cat! 

“And your belly feels fine now?” 

Yellowkit nodded. “Still empty, though,” she mewed. 

Sagewhisker touched Yellowkit’s ear with her nose. 
“Then you’ll remember to stay away from crow-food 
in future.” 

Yellowkit heaved a deep sigh. “Yes, okay,’ she 
muttered. 

There wasn’t any point in arguing. She knew that no 
cat was going to believe her. But if it wasn t the crow- 
food, she asked herself as she padded back to the 
nursery, what did make my belly ache like Nutkits? 





CHAPTER 4 
w& 


“a 

Yellowkit’s paw landed squarely on top of the 
quivering mouse, and it went limp. Her jaws watered 
as she bent her head to take the first succulent bite, 
when something slammed into her back. Her eyes flew 
open, her dream fled away, and she found herself in 
the nursery. Poolcloud’s kits, Foxkit and Wolfkit, were 
wrestling together in the moss, rolling over so they 
were half on top of Yellowkit. 

“Get off!” she muttered, giving the nearest kit a 
shove. I could almost taste that mouse! 

Yawning, Yellowkit sat up. Brightflower and 
Poolcloud were still asleep, but beside her in the mossy 
nest Nutkit and Rowankit were beginning to stir. 
Theres something odd about the nursery this 
morning, Yellowkit thought. The light was different, 
and there was a clean, cold scent in the air that she 
had never smelled before. 

Curious, Yellowkit scrambled over the moss and 
stuck her head through the branches. Her jaws gaped 
and she let out a gasp of astonishment. The camp lay 


under a thick white covering, and more of the white 
stuff weighed down the branches of the encircling pine 
trees. 

“Wow!” Yellowkit squeaked. “What happened?” 

Nutkit and Rowankit appeared beside her, their eyes 
round as they gazed out. 

“Did WindClan do this to us?” Nutkit growled. ‘P1 
shred their fur!” 

“No.” Brightflower pushed her way out of the 
nursery, her paws sinking into the white stuff, and 
turned to look back at her kits. Her eyes were warm 
with amusement. “This is snow. We get it sometimes in 
leaf-bare.” 

“Where did it come from?” Rowankit asked. 

“Tt falls out of the sky,’ Brightflower explained. 
“Like rain, but snow looks like falling feathers.” 

Extending one paw, Yellowkit dabbed at the white 
stuff. “It’s cold!” 

Nutkit let out a yowl of excitement and launched 
himself into the snow, his weight hardly denting the 
surface. 

“Wait for me!” Yellowkit charged after him, with 
Rowankit a tail-length behind. She could hear more 


squealing from the nursery, telling her that Foxkit and 
Wolfkit were following. “This is fun!” 

But as Yellowkit raced across the camp after her 
littermate, she felt as if something was holding her 
back. Rowankit overtook her with an excited squeak. 
Trying to force her legs to run faster, Yellowkit realized 
that the snow was clogging up her thick fur, dragging 
at her and slowing her down. Thats not fair! she 
thought indignantly. 

A moment later her paws skidded out from under 
her as Foxkit crashed into her. “Got you!” the younger 
kit squealed. “You’re as slow as a hedgehog, 
Yellowkit!” 

Struggling out from underneath her denmate, 
Yellowkit looked at the other kit’s smooth ginger pelt. 
No wonder it was easier for her to run fast in the 
snow. Taking a breath as she tried to shake the clots of 
snow from her pelt, she felt her mouth burning in the 
crisp, dry air. “I’m thirsty,” she announced. “I’m going 
to get a drink.” 

“You just want an excuse to stop running,” Foxkit 
taunted. 

Yellowkit opened her jaws to respond, then decided 


that arguing with Foxkit wasn’t worth it. Four moons 
old, and she thinks she knows everything. Glancing 
around the camp, she spotted the early morning light 
gleaming on a pool of melted snow just outside the 
warriors’ den. Silverflame was crouched beside it, 
lapping steadily. Yellowkit went to jom her, but 
Silverflame didn’t look up. The old cat must have been 
superthirsty. She always seemed to be drinking these 
days. 

A sharp pain stabbed at Yellowkit’s belly as she 
started to drink the icy water, and her fur prickled as 
though a storm was brewing. Yellowkit tilted her head 
on one side. There had been storms in the heavy days 
of greenleaf, when gray clouds would cover the sky 
and the air felt hot and damp, but today the sky was 
clear and pale, and the rising sun cast blue shadows 
across the snow-covered camp. A cold, dry breeze 
ruffled the white surface. No storms today, Yellowkit 
told herself. 

“Hi, Yellowkit.” Silverflame paused in her lapping at 
last. “Enjoying your first snow?” 

Yellowkit turned to reply, and winced at the look of 
exhaustion and pain in the old she-cat’s eyes. “It’s 


okay, I guess,” she replied. “Silverflame, are you all 
right?” 

Silverflame shrugged. “It’s just the moons catching 
up with me,” she mewed. “Don’t worry, Yellowkit.” 

“This cold weather does nothing for old bones,” 
Littlebird agreed as she emerged from the elders’ den 
and headed for the fresh-kill pile. Glancing back, she 
added, “Are you coming, Silverflame?” 

The she-cat shook her head. “I’m not hungry. The 
young ones need to eat more than I do.” 

Yellowkit frowned. What does Silverflame mean? 
All cats need to eat! “Come on,” she urged, giving 
Silverflame a gentle push. “Let’s go together and find 
something tasty.” 

“Okay.” With a huge sigh Silverflame rose to her 
paws. 

Yellowkit thought that the elder’s paw steps looked 
a bit shaky as she padded over to the fresh-kill pile. 
Littlebird was already clawing the snow away from it, 
revealing the heap of frozen prey. 

“Here, try this frog.” Yellowkit dragged it out of the 
pile and set it down in front of Silverflame. 

The elder blinked at the frog for a couple of 


heartbeats as if she had never seen one before, then 
lowered her head and took a small bite. Yellowkit 
chose a mouse for herself, but kept an eye on 
Silverflame as she was eating. The old cat was barely 
picking at her prey. In the sharp, slanting sunlight, 
Yellowkit could see Silverflame’s bones showing 
beneath her fur, as if the elder hadn’t been eating 
properly for days. 

After two or three more bites of the frog, 
Silverflame pushed it toward Yellowkit with one paw. 
“T’ve had enough. You finish it.” 

She turned and tottered away, vanishing into the 
elders’ den. Yellowkit stared anxiously after her. She 
didn’t want to finish the frog; the mouse she had eaten 
was weighing heavy in her belly, and she wondered if 
there might have been something wrong with it. Her 
fur was still prickling, too. 

There was a rustle of frozen brambles and 
Sagewhisker emerged into the camp. She carried a 
few frostbitten twigs in her jaws, and as Yellowkit 
bounded over to her she recognized shriveled juniper 
berries clinging to them. “Sagewhisker!” she called, 
catching up with the medicine cat just outside her den. 


Sagewhisker carefully laid the twigs down. “What is 
it, Yellowkit?” 

“It’s Silverflame,” Yellowkit explained, struggling to 
stop her voice from shaking. “I think she’s sick. She 
doesn’t want to eat anything.” 

Sagewhisker blinked at her. “Silverflame is old,” she 
mewed. “And leaf-bare is hard for the newest and the 
oldest members of the Clan.” 


“But she ...” Yellowkit’s voice died away. There 
arent any herbs to stop a cat from getting old, she 
thought miserably. 


“TIl look in on her,’ Sagewhisker promised. 

Yellowkit nodded, knowing she had to accept what 
the medicine cat said. 7 wish I could do something to 
help. Then she remembered how thirsty Silverflame 
always seemed. She must get so cold, coming out to 
drink at the pool. If I found some moss, I could 
bring her a drink into her den. 

Feeling better now that she had a plan, Yellowkit 
plunged through the snow to where a fallen tree lay 
among the thornbushes that surrounded the camp. As 
she pushed her way beneath the spiky branches she 
dislodged clumps of snow that showered down over 


her head and shoulders. Yellowkit let out a snarl as she 
shook the icy flakes from her pelt. 

The moss-covered tree was just ahead of her. But 
as she reached out to strip off a pawful of moss, 
Yellowkit heard voices on the other side of the 
brambles. Curious, she scrambled over the tree trunk 
and wriggled farther through the thorns, her paws 
tingling with excitement as she realized she was almost 
outside the camp. Peering cautiously through the 
branches, Yellowkit saw a flat stretch of ground 
enclosed by the dark trunks of pine trees. The surface 
of the snow was churned up, and Brackenfoot was 
standing with Raggedpaw in the middle of the rough 
patch. 

“You've learned that move really well,’ Brackenfoot 
was meowing. “Now you need to work on getting 
more power into your swipe. Let’s try it again.” 

Yellowkit watched, fascinated, as Brackenfoot 
crouched down in the snow and Raggedpaw charged 
at him, darting in to rake his paw over his mentor’s ear, 
and leaping back before Brackenfoot could retaliate. 

‘Better,’ Brackenfoot praised him. “Try again. 
Harder!” 


This time Brackenfoot rose to his paws and waited 
with muscles tensed for Raggedpaw’s attack. As 
Raggedpaw struck out, Brackenfoot ducked so that the 
blow only ruffled his fur. Raggedpaw leaped at him 
again and suddenly the two cats were locked together, 
swiping at each other with all four paws as they 
struggled to pin the other to the ground. 

Yellowkit drew in a breath of mingled excitement 
and horror, terrified that her Clanmates would injure 
each other, until she noticed that they were fighting 
with sheathed claws. 

I cant believe how good Raggedpaw is, she 
thought with a twinge of envy. He’ still only an 
apprentice! 

A moment later, Raggedpaw let out a yowl of 
triumph. He was standing on top of Brackenfoot, his 
forepaws pinning down his mentor’s shoulders, while 
one hind paw was fixed firmly on his tail. Brackenfoot 
was panting, his eyes half-closed and his muscles limp. 
Yellowkit’s eyes widened in dismay and she flexed her 
claws, ready to dash out and defend her father. 

“I won!” Raggedpaw meowed. His eyes blazed as 
he looked down at his mentor. “I’m the best fighter in 


the Clan!” 

Before the last words were out of his jaws, 
Brackenfoot surged upward, flinging Raggedpaw off 
him and rolling him over in the snow. “What was that 
again?” he asked mildly as Raggedpaw scrambled up 
with snow clumped all over his pelt. 

Yellowkit let out a gleeful mrrow to see that her 
father hadn’t lost the battle after al. Raggedpaw 
thinks he’s so great... 

Raggedpaw glared at his mentor. “You cheated! You 
pretended to be beaten!” 

“And you think that an enemy won’t do that when 
you fight in a real battle? You’re doing well, 
Raggedpaw, and you'll be a great fighter one day, but 
you still have a lot to learn.” 

Raggedpaw shook himself, spraying snow 
everywhere. His shoulders sagged. “You’re right,” he 
admitted. “I’m sorry. Will you teach me that move?” 

“Another time,’ Brackenfoot promised. ‘“We’ve 
done enough for today. Let’s get back to camp, and 
you can take something from the fresh-kill pile.” 

“Thanks!” Raggedpaw’s eyes glowed. “I’m 
starving!” 


Brackenfoot turned toward the camp entrance and 
Raggedpaw was about to follow. Suddenly he froze 
and Yellowkit shrank back as she realized the 
apprentice was staring straight at her. 

“What do you think you’re doing?” Raggedpaw 
demanded. “Hey, Brackenfoot, Yellowkit’s spying on 
us!” 

Brackenfoot glanced back, spotting his daughter 
among the thorns. “Don’t be such a mouse-brain,” he 
told Raggedpaw. “Yellowkit can watch if she wants. 
She might learn something.” 

Raggedpaw let out a snort of disgust, but said 
nothing more. Her fur hot with embarrassment, 
Yellowkit scrambled backward until she reached the 
fallen tree again. Tearing off a pawful of thick moss, 
she scampered across the camp to soak it in the puddle 
before carrying it to the elders’ den. 

“Here, Silverflame,” she mumbled around her 
mouthful as she poked her head underneath the 
branches. “I brought you a drink.” 

All three elders were huddled together in the shelter 
of the stump. Littlebird narrowed her eyes at 
Yellowkit. “Keep that wet moss away from our 


bedding,” she snapped. 

“Yes,” Lizardfang agreed. “You should know better 
than to bring it in here.” 

Yellowkit suppressed an angry hiss, remembering 
she ought to be polite to the elders, even when they 
were being a pain in the tail. 

“Leave her alone,” Silverflame meowed. “That was 
a very kind thought, Yellowkit.” Gesturing with her tail, 
she added, “Put the moss down there, well away from 
the bedding.” 

When Yellowkit had obeyed, Silverflame stretched 
out her neck and lapped at the dripping fronds. “Great 
StarClan, that’s good,” she murmured. “Thank you.” 

Shooting a smug glance at the two other elders, 
Yellowkit was about to reply when she heard 
Cedarstar’s voice from outside in the camp. 

“Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey join 
here beneath the Clanrock for a meeting!” 

“For StarClan’s sake, what now?” Lizardfang 
complained. 

Dipping her head briefly to the elders, Yellowkit 
backed out of the den, almost colliding with her mother 
as she spun around to see what was going on. 


“There you are!” Brightflower exclaimed. “I’ve 
been searching everywhere for you.” 

“Why? What’s happening?” Yellowkit mewed. 

Just behind her mother, she spotted Rowankit and 
Nutkit, looking unusually well groomed. Nutkit was 
bouncing up and down on his paws, while Rowankit’s 
eyes were wide and shining. 

‘“You’re going to be made apprentices,” 
Brightflower explained. 

Yellowkit stared at her. “Now?” 

“Yes, now, and just look at you!” Brightflower 
darted out a paw and snagged a spiky twig that was 
stuck in Yellowkit’s pelt. “Any cat would think you’d 
been wriggling through thorns all day.” 

Yellowkit stood still while Brightflower gave her a 
quick grooming, flicking bits of thorn and moss out of 
her fur, and smoothing it with strong strokes of her 
tongue. 

Meanwhile the cats of ShadowClan were gathering 
around the Clanrock. All three elders poked their 
heads out from under the branches that shaded their 
den. Deerleap and Amberleaf appeared from the 
warriors’ den, followed closely by Toadskip and 


Featherstorm. Brackenfoot and Raggedpaw, who were 
eating beside the fresh-kill pile, finished their prey 
quickly and turned to listen; Crowtail and Scorchpaw 
padded over to join them. 

Yellowkit’s belly began to churn. Every cat will be 
looking at me! What if I get something wrong? Who 
will be my mentor? 

“This is going to be a hard leaf-bare,” Cedarstar 
began. “With snow on the ground, we need all the 
hunters we can get, and border patrols to defend our 
territory when the other Clans get hungry. So this is a 
good time to strengthen ShadowClan by making new 
apprentices. Rowankit, come forward.” 

Rowankit swallowed nervously, then padded 
forward until she stood beneath the Clanrock. 

Cedarstar’s gaze swept over his Clan. “Finchflight,” 
he meowed, “you have served your Clan well and you 
deserve to have another apprentice. I know you will 
pass on your skills to Rowanpaw.” 

Rowanpaw gave a little skip of delight at the sound 
of her new name, then trotted over to Finchflight and 
touched noses with him. The black-and-white tom let 
out an approving purr. 


Cedarstar beckoned Nutkit with his tail. “Nutkit, 
come forward,” he meowed. 

Nutkit paced proudly across the clearing. 

“Amberleaf,” Cedarstar continued, dipping his head 
to the dark orange she-cat, “you are a skilled warrior, 
and I know you will give Nutpaw the training he 
needs.” 

Nutpaw’s got Amberleaf! Yellowkit barely stopped 
herself from exclaiming out loud. Shes so strict! All 
the young cats were a bit afraid of Amberleaf, who 
had a scathing tongue when she was annoyed; 
Yellowkit remembered being scolded by her when she 
accidentally hit the warrior on the head with a ball of 
moss. 

Nutpaw looked nervous as he padded across to 
Amberleaf to touch noses, but relaxed as the she-cat 
murmured, “PI make you the best warrior you can 
be.” 

Yellowkit’s heart began pounding harder. When 
Cedarstar beckoned to her, she padded across the 
clearing with as much dignity as she could muster. 

StarClan, please don t let me trip over a twig! 

‘Deerleap, you are a wise and experienced cat,” 


Cedarstar mewed. “I know that you will pass on your 
qualities to Yellowpaw.” 

Yellowpaw spun around to face Deerleap. The gray 
tabby she-cat had stepped into the clearing, waiting for 
her. As she approached her mentor, Yellowpaw saw 
the friendly gleam in Deerleap’s eyes, and decided she 
was very satisfied with the choice that Cedarstar had 
made for her. 

“PIL do the best I can, I promise!” she mewed 
fervently as they touched noses. 

Any reply was drowned in the cheers of the Clan as 
they greeted the new apprentices by their names. 
“Nutpaw! Yellowpaw! Rowanpaw!” 

Yellowpaw saw Brightflower and Brackenfoot 
standing side by side, identical expressions of pride on 
their faces and in their shining eyes. She felt happy 
enough to burst. 

“Okay,” Deerleap meowed to Yellowpaw when the 
noise had died down and the cats were beginning to 
drift away. “Why don’t we go out for our tour of the 
territory before it gets dark?” 

“Great!” Every hair on Yellowpaw’s pelt bristled 
with excitement. “Let’s go!” 


But as she followed Deerleap across the camp 
toward the brambles where Nutpaw and Rowanpaw 
were already vanishing with thei mentors, she 
staggered as a sharp pain shot through her belly. She 
couldn’t suppress a yelp. 

Deerleap turned around. “What’s the matter?” 

Yellowpaw could hardly stay on her paws. The pain 
filled her body, darkening her vision. She had never felt 
anything so bad. 


“Pain ... it hurts ...” she managed to gasp. 
“You'd better see Sagewhisker,’” Deerleap meowed. 
“But ... I want to see the ... the territory,” 


Yellowpaw protested. 

“The territory won’t go away.” Deerleap’s voice 
was determined. She laid her tail across her 
apprentice’s shoulders. “Come along.” 

As she stumbled across the camp, Yellowpaw 
fought against her disappointment. J want to start 
training now. I dont have time to be sick. 

But when she reached the medicine cat’s den, there 
was no sign of her. 

“You looking for Sagewhisker?” Toadskip was on 
his way to the fresh-kill pile. “I saw her go into the 


elders’ den.” 

“Thanks, Toadskip.” Deerleap led the way toward 
the tree stump. 

When they approached the den, Yellowpaw heard 
drawn-out moans, as if a cat was in agony. 
Yellowpaw’s pain had ebbed a little, but her fur felt 
strange and began prickling, harder and harder with 
every paw step she took. She was scared of what she 
might find in the elders’ den, and could hardly force 
herself to go in. 

When she ducked underneath the outer branches of 
the den, she saw Silverflame stretched in her nest, her 
body twisted and her eyes glazed with pain. 
Sagewhisker was crouching over her, while Lizardfang 
and Littlebird huddled together at the far side, their 
faces full of fear and pity. The floor was strewn with 
different herbs, their sharp scents mingling with 
another sweetish smell that made Yellowpaw gag. 

Silverflame is really sick! 

“Yes—what is it?” Sagewhisker snapped, not 
shifting her gaze from the old she-cat. 

“ÉI had a pain ... but it’s nothing,’ Yellowpaw 
stammered. 


“Okay.” Sagewhisker paused to chew up a mouthful 
of leaves. “See me tomorrow if it doesn’t clear up.” 

“I will. Thanks.” 

Unable to bear watching Silverflame any longer, 
Yellowpaw backed out of the den. 

“Are you feeling okay now?” Deerleap asked, a 
tinge of impatience in her voice. “Because if you are, 
we can set off.” 

Yellowpaw nodded, trying to ignore the nagging pain 
in her stomach; when she breathed in the scent of the 
herbs it had faded to a tolerable ache. “I’m fine,” she 
insisted. 

Deerleap led the way through the brambles. 
Excitement surged over Yellowpaw as she followed, 
almost driving out her anxiety about Silverflame. 
Heartbeats later, she stood outside the camp for the 
first time. Pine trees stretched into the distance on 
every side. 

“Wow!” she breathed. “The forest goes on 
forever!” 

“Not quite,’ Deerleap responded, a glint of 
amusement in her eyes. “Come on. We’ll go this way.” 

The ground between the trees was flat and almost 


clear of undergrowth. Yellowpaw spotted tracks 
crisscrossing it: the spiky claw marks of birds, cat paw 
prints from an earlier patrol, and larger prints, tipped 
with claws, that she had never seen before. She 
paused to sniff at them and picked up a trace of a rank 
smell that felt faintly threatening. 

Deerleap had halted and was looking back. “Come 
on, Yellowpaw.” 

“What’s this?” Yellowpaw mewed. 

Deerleap gave the tracks a swift glance. “Fox,” she 
stated. 

Yellowpaw shivered and glanced around, half 
expecting to spot a slim russet shape slinking among 
the trees. She had never seen a fox, but she had heard 
plenty of stories about them. 

“It’s okay,” Deerleap told her. “That scent is stale. 
But we need to keep a lookout whenever we’re 
outside the camp.” 

Yellowpaw flexed her claws, wondering what it 
would be like to fight a fox. Movement among the 
trees caught her eye, but no fox appeared. Instead, it 
was a ShadowClan hunting patrol Cedarstar was 
leading the way back to camp, with Archeye and 


Featherstorm, all of them carrying prey. Deerleap 
called a greeting, and the Clan leader waved his tail in 
acknowledgment. 

A short while later the pine trees thinned out, 
replaced by bushes mounded with snow and reeds 
whose feathery tops rattled together in the breeze. The 
flat ground became uneven, with hidden hollows filled 
with snow. Yellowpaw let out a squeak as she slid 
down a dip and sank deep into the powdery white 
stuff. Deerleap is going to think I'm a stupid kit! 

But Deerleap just waited until Yellowpaw struggled 
out, and didn’t make any comment. “When the 
weather is warmer, the ground here is marshy and 
wet,” she meowed. “It’s a good place for catching 
frogs.” 

Yellowpaw nodded. Silverflame used to enjoy 
frogs, she thought, remembering how the elder hadn’t 
been eating properly for ages. She realized that 
Deerleap had asked her a question and had paused, 
waiting for an answer. 

“Sorry,” Yellowpaw muttered. “What was that?” 

Deerleap sighed. “I asked what you thought would 
be the best way to catch a frog.” 


“I... um ...” Yellowpaw thought fast. “Hide in the 
reeds and jump out at it?” she suggested. 

Her mentor twitched her whiskers. “That might 
work. But remember frogs can swim too. It’s best to 
find one on land. Two cats can hunt better than one: 
one to cut the frog off from the pool it came out of, 
and one to catch it. We’ll practice with the other 
apprentices when newleaf comes.” 

“Great!” Yellowpaw responded, though her thoughts 
of Silverflame moaning in agony dampened her 
enthusiasm. 

They came to the edge of the marsh and padded 
through another belt of pine trees. The trees grew 
more sparsely here, and reddish, hard-edged shapes 
loomed beyond the last of them, as tall as the highest 
trunks. 

“We’re coming to the edge of ShadowClan 
territory,’ Deerleap mewed. “Can you smell our scent 
markers?” 

Yellowpaw sniffed and nodded. She felt proud that 
the ShadowClan scent was so strong. That warns 
other Clans not to mess with us! 

“Over in that direction,’ Deerleap went on, angling 


her ears toward the ominous shapes, “is Twolegplace. 
We don’t go there. It’s a place for dogs and kittypets, 
not warriors. Those are the dens where Twolegs live.” 

Yellowpaw gazed at the unnaturally straight walls 
with square holes dotted across their sides, some high 
up and some closer to the ground. Low wooden 
barriers surrounded each den, rather like the thorns 
that surrounded ShadowClan’s camp. As Yellowpaw 
watched, a kittypet appeared, balancing carefully on 
the top of the wooden wall before jumping down to the 
other side. 

“That cat was wearing something around its neck,” 
she observed. 

Deerleap nodded. “A collar. Most kittypets have 
them. It signifies that they belong to Twolegs, and can 
never be free. Just be thankful you'll never have to 
wear one.” 

Yellowpaw watched for a little longer, but the 
kittypet didn’t reappear. She wondered what it would 
be like to live in the Twolegplace. It looked cold and 
hard and empty, and she was glad when Deerleap 
moved on again, through another belt of woodland 
where pines were mixed with other trees. The bare 


branches creaked over Yellowpaw’s head. 

Yellowpaw soon became aware of an acrid stench 
in the air, and a dull roaring that grew and died away 
again. “Is that thunder?” she mewed. 

“You’ll see what it is in a few heartbeats,” Deerleap 
told her. 

When Yellowpaw came to the edge of the trees she 
stumbled to a halt. In front of her lay a narrow stretch 
of ground that led away in both directions as far as she 
could see. The snow that lay upon it had been churned 
up in straight lines, leaving dirty brown ridges. 
Underneath, Yellowpaw could make out a hard, black 
surface. The acrid stench rose from it in waves, 
smothering all the other scents of the forest. 

“What’s that?” Yellowpaw gasped. She stretched 
out a paw to touch the surface. 

Immediately Deerleap flicked her tail in front of 
Yellowpaw. “Keep back,” she warned. 

At the same moment the weird roaring sound began 
again. Yellowpaw tensed as a small creature appeared 
at the far end of the path; it grew bigger as the roaring 
grew louder. Soon she could make it out more clearly: 
It was an unnatural glittering scarlet, and it had round 


black paws that seemed to eat up the ground. 
Heartbeats later it swept past, spattermg Yellowpaw 
with dirty, half-melted snow. For a moment its 
bellowing and vile reek filled the air; then it was gone, 
dwindling into the distance as the sound died away. 

“Tt didn’t spot us!” Yellowpaw mewed in relief. 

“Mostly they don’t,’ Deerleap responded. “They 
keep to the Thunderpath, and don’t bother us provided 
we stay away from it. But cats have died trying to 
cross, so don’t even think about it.” 

“That's the Thunderpath?” Yellowpaw asked. “Then 
that must have been a monster! Brackenfoot told us 
about them when we were in the nursery. He said the 
monsters have Twolegs in their bellies, but I thought 
that was just a tale for kits.” 

“No, it’s true,’ Deerleap meowed. 

“Those things eat Twolegs?” 

“Not exactly.” Deerleap sounded puzzled. “The 
Twolegs get out of them again, and they seem okay. I 
don’t know what it’s all about, but then, Twolegs are 
strange.” 

The stink of the monster was dying away, and as 
she tasted the air Yellowpaw could pick up another 


scent she didn’t recognize. It was the scent of cats, but 
harsher than the warm, comforting ShadowClan scent 
she was used to. 

“What’s that yucky smell?” 

“That’s ThunderClan,” Deerleap explained, waving 
her tail toward the trees on the other side of the 
Thunderpath. “Their territory is over there.” 

“Really?” The scent marks seemed so close; 
Yellowpaw imagined a patrol of hostile ThunderClan 
cats charging across the Thunderpath, invading her 
territory. Her neck fur started to bristle and she dug 
her claws into the ground. 

They'd better not try it! 

But there was no movement among the trees on the 
opposite side of the Thunderpath, nothing to suggest an 
enemy patrol was lurking there. Feeling slightly 
disappointed, Yellowpaw turned away. 

“Where do we go next?” 

“Follow me.” Deerleap led the way alongside the 
Thunderpath and stopped at a point where the ground 
fell away into a deep cleft that became a tunnel leading 
into darkness. The sides were lined with squared-off 
stones. 


“Did Twolegs make that?” Yellowpaw mewed. 

“They did.” Deerleap sounded pleased and a little 
surprised that Yellowpaw had guessed right. “Don’t 
ask me why. It leads under the Thunderpath and up on 
the other side.” 

“Into ThunderClan territory? They could come right 
through it and attack us!” 

“No, it’s still our territory on the other side, all the 
way to the hollow at Fourtrees. It’s the way we go for 
Gatherings.” 

Yellowpaw’s paws tingled. Now that I’m an 
apprentice, I'll get to go to Gatherings! When she 
was three moons old, she had begged and begged to go 
to a Gathering. Silverflame had promised to tell her 
everything that happened, and the day after, she had 
kept her promise. 

She made it sound so exciting ... I hope she'll be 
better by the next full moon, so we can go together. 

She was dragged abruptly out of her memories as 
Deerleap flicked her on the shoulder with her tail-tip. 
“Wake up!” her mentor chided. ““We’ve still got a long 
way to go.” 

They walked on, sticking close to the Thunderpath 


with the Twoleg dens fading into the trees behind 
them. “Over there,’ Deerleap continued, “is another 
tunnel. That one leads straight into WindClan territory. 
What do you think that means?” 

“Trouble!” Yellowpaw exclaimed. 

“Right. So what should we do about it?” 

“Patrol really carefully?” Yellowpaw suggested. 
“And ... er ... put really strong scent markers around 
our end?” 

Deerleap nodded. “Exactly. Good thinking, 
Yellowpaw.” 

A few fox-lengths farther on, Yellowpaw spotted 
Rowanpaw trotting toward them with her mentor, 
Finchflight. 

Rowanpaw waved her tail. “Isn’t this great?” she 
called. “Our territory is awesome!” 

Yellowpaw mewed agreement, but there wasn’t 
time to stop and chat. Deerleap was forging ahead, 
and Yellowpaw had to scurry to keep up. By now the 
sun was starting to go down, staining the snow as red 
as blood. Shadows began to gather under the trees, 
and the monsters that swept past on the Thunderpath 
had glaring yellow eyes that cut through the darkness. 


Eventually Deerleap veered away from the 
Thunderpath and headed back to the trees. Darker 
shadows loomed ahead, and Yellowpaw tried to hide 
her nervousness as Deerleap plunged into them. Finally 
her mentor stopped. 

“What can you smell?” she asked. 

Yellowpaw parted her jaws and tasted the air. “Very 
strong ShadowClan scent,’ she reported. “Are we 
near the border again?” 

“We are. But is there anything else?” 

Yellowpaw took in another breath, trying to 
distinguish other scents beneath the overpowering 
scent of ShadowClan. 

“Oh!” she exclaimed. “Something really nasty! Is it 
another Clan?” 

“No, that’s the Carrionplace.” Deerleap flicked her 
tail toward the shadows. 

Peering more closely, Yellowpaw made out huge 
heaps of evil-smelling stuff. Weird shapes that gleamed 
in the half-light poked out of a mountain of sludge and 
debris. A shiny fence, like a thick, regular cobweb, 
surrounded them. “What’s that stuff?” she mewed. 
“How did it get there?” 


“Twolegs bring it in yellow monsters,” Deerleap 
replied with a look of disgust. “It’s Twoleg crow-food. 
And before you ask, I don’t know why they dump it 
there.” 

“Yuck!” Yellowpaw passed her tongue around her 
jaws. “I can almost taste it from here.” 

“Stay away from it,” Deerleap warned her. “More 
rats than you can imagine live in those heaps, and even 
experienced warriors think twice before messing with 
them.” 

“There’s no way I’d want to go there,” Yellowpaw 
assured her. She was happy to leave the Carrionplace 
behind and head back into the forest. Night had fallen, 
and the first warriors of StarClan were appearing in 
the sky. The snow gleamed eerily beneath the trees. 

“What’s over there?” Yellowpaw curled her tail to 
where the pine trees stretched on and on until they 
melted into shadow. 

“More forest,’ Deerleap replied. “No cats go that 
way. We have enough territory without it.” 

Yellowpaw felt a stab of relief that they didn’t have 
to go any farther. Her paws were frozen and starting 
to feel sore. I’ve never walked so far, she thought. 


“We’re almost back at the camp,’ Deerleap 
announced. “You can pick out a piece of fresh-kill and 
then find yourself a nest in the apprentices’ den.” 

Yellowpaw blinked; she hadn’t considered that she 
wouldn’t be sleeping in the nursery anymore, and she 
wondered if Raggedpaw and Scorchpaw would 
welcome her and her littermates. But she pushed that 
thought to the back of her mind. There was something 
more important that she had to do first. 

I need to know how Silverflame is. 

She followed Deerleap through the thorn tunnel and 
into the clearing. 

“Did you enjoy seeing the territory?” Deerleap 
prompted. 

“Yes, it was great, thanks,” Yellowpaw responded, 
her paws itching to carry her toward the elders’ den. 

“Off with you, then.” Deerleap flicked her ears. “PI 
see you at dawn tomorrow. We’ll start your training 
with hunting practice.” 

Yellowpaw knew she should feel excited about that, 
but her anxiety about Silverflame was growing 
stronger with every heartbeat. She ducked her head to 
her mentor and bounded across the clearing to the 


elders’ den. Just as she reached it, Brightflower 
emerged. 
“How is Silverflame?” Yellowpaw demanded. 
“Growing weaker,” Brightflower replied. Her face 
was solemn. “Be brave, little one. We have to accept 
that it’s time for her to walk with StarClan.” 





CHAPTER 5 
I% 


-o 
“No!” Yellowpaw gasped. “She can t leave us!” 

‘T’m sorry, but she has to.” Brightflower bent her 
head to touch Yellowpaw’s ear with her nose. 

Yellowpaw could see the desperate anxiety in 
Brightflower’s eyes. I know how I'd feel if 
Brightflower was dying. She must feel the same 
now that its her mother whos going to join 
StarClan. 

“I want to see her!” she choked out. 

Brightflower nodded. “You can, but you must be 
very quiet.” She stepped back and allowed Yellowpaw 
to slide underneath the branches into the elders’ den. 

Silverflame was lying on her side, her legs splayed 
out as if she were running. Her eyes were half-closed 
and her chest heaved with rasping breaths. 
Sagewhisker crouched over her while Littlebird and 
Lizardfang watched from the corner, their eyes 
gleaming in the darkness. 

Yellowpaw felt as though her pelt were on fire as 
she drew closer to the old, sick cat. She reeled back, 


blinking. “She’s so thirsty!” she whispered to 
Sagewhisker. “Why don’t you give her something to 
drink? Why aren’t you treating her pain?” 

Sagewhisker looked up, her eyes full of grief. 
“There’s nothing more I can do,” she murmured. 

“There must be!” Yellowpaw wailed. 

“Yellowpaw.” Littlebird rose to her paws and gave 
Yellowpaw a gentle nudge. “Come with me.” 

“No!” Yellowpaw felt as if her whole world was full 
of pain and her grief for Silverflame. “I want to stay 
with her.” 

“You can’t help her now,” Littlebird mewed softly. 
“Come away.” 

Yellowpaw let herself be urged toward the entrance. 
Before she ducked under the branches, she looked 
back. “Good-bye, Silverflame,” she whispered. 

There was no sign that Silverflame had heard her. 
She drew a breath that rattled in her throat. As 
Yellowpaw climbed out of the den, she strained her 
ears for the next breath. It didn’t come. 

“She’s dead, isn’t she?” Yellowpaw whispered. 

Littlebird nodded. “She hunts with StarClan now.” 

Yellowpaw dug her claws into the ground. “She 


shouldn’t be dead. Why didn’t Sagewhisker save her?” 

“Tt wasn’ t—” 

Yellowpaw cut off Littlebird’s words with a yowl of 
rage. “She should have saved her! What good is a 
medicine cat if she can’t do that?” 

“Come for a walk with me,” Littlebird meowed 
gently. 

“Yes, go with Littlebird.” Brightflower, who had 
waited outside the den, touched her nose to 
Yellowpaw’s ear. 

Her eyes blurred by sadness, Yellowpaw followed 
the small ginger tabby out of the camp. She realized 
that Littlebird was heading for the marshes Deerleap 
had shown her earlier. It felt as though the tour of the 
territory had happened in another life. 

“Medicine cats can only do their best with the 
knowledge that they have,’ Littlebird told her. 
“StarClan wanted Silverflame to walk with them. 
Look,” she added, pausing beside a shrub with a few 
pale green leaves clinging to its spindly branches, 
“there’s the juniper bush that Sagewhisker used to help 
Silverflame’s pain. And in newleaf there’s also 
coltsfoot for shortness of breath—” 


“But none of it did any good,” Yellowpaw snarled. 
“Sagewhisker should have found something better.” 
She lashed her tail. “Whats the use of being a 
medicine cat if you can’t heal your Clanmates?” 

“Death is part of life,’ Littlebird meowed, resting 
her tail on Yellowpaw’s shoulder. “Every good warrior 
goes to StarClan, and that’s a glorious place to end 
up.” She raised one paw and pointed at a star that was 
shining above their heads. “Look, Silverflame is 
watching over us now.” 

“But I want her back in the Clan,” Yellowpaw 
whispered. The star was too far away to mean 
anything, and how could any cat know that it was 
Silverflame? 

“Every cat has to leave sometime,’ Littlebird 
murmured. “Until then, all we can do is try our hardest 
to be the best for our Clan.” 


As leaf-bare dragged on, the hard frost made the 
grass sharp enough to pierce a cat’s pads like thorns, 
and prey stayed deep inside their holes. Yellowpaw felt 
as if her belly was flapping, it was so empty, but 
Deerleap kept her on a grueling training regime. 

“I have to get up before any of you,” Yellowpaw 


grumbled to Nutpaw as she licked a paw and tried to 
rub sleep out of her eyes. “Some mornings we’re even 
out before the dawn patrol! And it’s never enough if I 
catch one piece of prey. Oh, no—we can’t come back 
to camp until I’ve caught two or three.” 

“You’re doing great,’ Nutpaw muttered. He was 
still curled up in the moss of the apprentices’ den, and 
he sounded half-asleep. “Deerleap is a fantastic 
mentor.” 

Yellowpaw snorted, though she was pleased that she 
had managed to impress her brother. I’m trying really 
hard, she thought. Surely I’m going to be a good 
warrior with all this training? 

“Yellowpaw!” 

“Uh-oh.” Yellowpaw flinched at the sound of her 
mentor’s voice. “Coming!” she called as she 
scrambled out of the den. 

Deerleap was standing a _ fox-length away, 
impatiently flexing her claws. The first faint light of 
dawn was creeping into the sky; Yellowpaw could 
barely see the outlines of the trees. Stonetooth was 
emerging from the warriors’ den. He arched his back 
in a long stretch and his jaws parted in a yawn. 


Yellowpaw blinked and tried to look alert. “Where 
are we going today?” 

“I thought we might try near the big ash tree,” 
Deerleap replied. “No cat has hunted there for a day 
or two.” 

Yellowpaw’s sleepiness vanished as she headed into 
the forest after her mentor. The air was crisp and cold; 
her paws pattered on the hard ground, and she made a 
conscious effort to walk softly. The dawn light was 
strengthening as the ash tree came into sight. Deerleap 
gestured with her tail for Yellowpaw to take cover 
behind some brambles. 

“Keep perfectly still” she instructed. “Look, listen, 
and scent. What can you pick up?” 

Yellowpaw drew herself up, her whiskers quivering 
with concentration, and tried to focus all her senses at 
once. At first she could hear nothing but the breeze in 
the bare branches of the ash, and the soft sound of her 
own breath. Then a familiar scent wafted into her jaws 
and she pricked her ears. 

Blackbird! 

She poked her head out from behind the brambles 
and spotted the bird pecking among the roots of the 


ash tree. Remembering to check the direction of the 
breeze, she worked her way around the outside of the 
thicket and dropped into her hunter’s crouch to creep 
up on the bird from the other direction. Stealthily, paw 
step by paw step, Yellowpaw edged forward, her gaze 
fixed on her quarry. She was aware of Deerleap 
watching her, which made her even more determined. 
I’ve got to make a good catch! 

But before Yellowpaw came within pouncing 
distance, she accidentally stepped on a dead leaf. It 
crackled under her paw, and the blackbird, alerted by 
the tiny sound, fluttered up onto a low branch. 

“Mouse dung!” Yellowpaw hissed. 

She padded back to Deerleap, who was still in cover 
behind the brambles. 

“Okay,” her mentor mewed. “What did you do 
wrong?” 

“I stepped on a leaf.” Duh! 

“And why did you step on a leaf?” 

“I wasn’t aware of everything around me,” 
Yellowpaw admitted. “I was so focused on the 
blackbird that I didn’t think about where I was putting 
my paws.” 


Deerleap gave her an approving nod. “Good. Yov’ ll 
remember next time, won’t you?” Glancing out from 
the thicket, she added, “And now you get another 
chance.” 

Yellowpaw poked her head out and saw that the bird 
was back among the tree roots, pecking away as if it 
had forgotten the threat. 

I'll get you this time! 

Checking the wind direction again, she crept 
forward; this time she looked down at the ground in 
front of her, assessing everything that lay between her 
and her prey. She avoided a fallen twig, and used a 
clump of frostbitten grass for extra cover. At last she 
was close enough to pounce; bunching her muscles, 
she shot forward in an enormous leap, and sank her 
claws into the bird before it realized she was there. 
Once the limp body was securely in her jaws, she 
trotted back to her mentor. 

“Well done,” Deerleap purred. “That was a perfect 
bit of stalking.” 

Yellowpaw felt warm all over; Deerleap’s praise 
had to be earned. “It’s a little scrawny,” she confessed 
after she had dropped the bird on the ground. 


“Never mind. Any piece of prey is welcome in 
weather like this.” 

The ground was too hard to dig a hole and bury the 
fresh-kill while they kept hunting, so Yellowpaw 
scraped leaves over it before starting to search the 
area for more prey, moving in widening circles around 
the ash tree. But it seemed as if nothing else was 
moving in all the frozen forest. Claws of frost dug deep 
into Yellowpaw’s pelt, and she was almost ready to ask 
if they could go back to camp when she spotted a 
flicker of movement between two stones. Swiftly she 
flashed out a paw and was startled to find that she had 
hooked a lizard on her claws. It wriggled for a 
heartbeat and then was still. 

“That was lucky,” Deerleap commented. “You don’t 
usually see those in weather as cold as this.” 

Yellowpaw swelled with pride as she carried her 
two pieces of prey into the camp. Nutpaw and 
Rowanpaw were standing by the fresh-kill pile with 
their mentors. 

“We’ve been on a hunting patrol!” Nutpaw mewed, 
scampering up to Yellowpaw. “I caught a mouse!” 

“And Rowanpaw caught a starling,” Finchflight 


added. “They’ve both done very well.” 

“Well, there’s no point in standing around watching 
our fur grow,” Deerleap meowed. “What about giving 
the apprentices a joint training session? They could all 
do with practicing their battle moves.” 

“She never stops, does she?” Rowanpaw muttered 
into Yellowpaw’s ear as the other two mentors 
murmured agreement and led the way to the thorn 
tunnel. 

“At least fighting will keep us warm,” Yellowpaw 
pointed out. 

She and her littermates followed their mentors to the 
shallow training scoop not far from the camp. 
Raggedpaw and Scorchpaw were already there with 
Brackenfoot and Crowtail. 

“Watch this,’ Crowtail mewed. “They’re getting 
really good.” 

The two older apprentices were circling cautiously 
around each other. Raggedpaw flashed out a paw, but 
Scorchpaw leaped backward and the blow never 
connected. With a yowl Raggedpaw pushed off with 
his hind legs and thrust himself into the air. Yellowpaw 
winced, expecting him to land on Scorchpaw and 


knock him to the ground. But while Raggedpaw was 
still in the air, Scorchpaw twisted onto his back. He 
splayed out all four legs, claws extended. Raggedpaw 
landed on Scorchpaw’s belly, and immediately 
Scorchpaw fastened his four sets of claws in 
Raggedpaw’s shoulders and haunches. Then he rolled 
over, pinning Raggedpaw to the ground. 

“Enough,” Crowtail meowed, and the two 
apprentices broke apart. “Now try it again, and 
Scorchpaw, you leap this time.” 

“That’s a brilliant move!” Rowanpaw exclaimed. 

“It’s a good one to remember if a cat leaps on you in 
battle,” Brackenfoot explained as the older apprentices 
circled each other again. “Often the cat who’s 
underneath has the worst of the fight, but this way you 
can get back in control.” 

“Can we try?” Yellowpaw asked when she had 
seen the move demonstrated for the second time. 

“Of course,’ Deerleap meowed. “That’s what 
were here for. Yellowpaw, you can work with 
Nutpaw. Scorchpaw, you practice with Rowanpaw.” 

Rowanpaw looked slightly disconcerted at the 
thought of working with an apprentice who already 


knew the move, and Scorchpaw was obviously not too 
happy about being paired with a younger cat. But they 
knew better than to argue. 

“Keep your claws sheathed,’ Brackenfoot 
instructed. “We don’t want any shredded fur.” 

Each pair of cats began circling. Yellowpaw was 
leapng down onto Nutpaw, who had his paws 
extended ready for her, when she heard a startled yowl 
from Rowanpaw. At the same time a sharp pain sliced 
through her shoulder. She let out a screech and 
crumpled to the ground at Nutpaw’s paws. 

“For StarClan’s sake, whats happening?” 
Finchflight exclaimed, bounding over to his apprentice. 
“Rowanpaw, are you okay?” 

As Yellowpaw rolled over, gasping with pain, she 
saw her sister sprawled on the ground on the far side 
of the training area. Blood was welling slowly from 
punctures in Rowanpaw’s shoulder. 

“Scorchpaw, we said sheathed claws!” Crowtail 
snapped. 

“Sorry,” Scorchpaw muttered. “I forgot.” 

“I don’t understand how two apprentices could be 
injured at the same time,” Amberleaf meowed, padding 


up to Nutpaw. “What did you do?” 

“Nothing!” Nutpaw’s eyes were wide with dismay. 
“I never touched Yellowpaw, honestly!” 

“Whatever. It still hurts,’ Yellowpaw snapped, 
scrambling awkwardly to her paws. 

“T’m okay.” Rowanpaw sat up, turning her head to 
swipe her tongue over the spots of blood on her 
shoulder. “I want to try again.” 

“Okay,” Finchflight meowed. “But let’s all be more 
careful this time.” 

The pain in Yellowpaw’s shoulder was fading, but 
she was wary of being hurt for a second time. When 
they practiced the move again, she knew she wasn’t 
giving it her best effort. 

“Grab your opponent harder,’ Deerleap advised. 
“Don’t think about what his paws are doing. Just 
concentrate on hanging on to him and pinning him 
down.” 

“I think that’s enough for today,” Finchflight decided, 
when the apprentices had practiced the move once 
more. “Rowanpaw, you’d better see Sagewhisker 
about those scratches.” 

Rowanpaw nodded, though Yellowpaw noticed that 


the claw marks weren’t bleeding anymore, and her 
sister hardly limped at all as they headed back toward 
camp. While Rowanpaw padded off to the medicine 
cat’s den, the rest of the apprentices and their mentors 
gathered around the fresh-kill pile. 

‘Yellowpaw, do you think you should see 
Sagewhisker too?” Deerleap prompted. 

“No, I’m fine,’ Yellowpaw mumbled through a 
mouthful of the squirrel she was sharing with Nutpaw. 

Deerleap looked doubtful. “You’d better take the 
rest of the day off,’ she mewed, giving Yellowpaw’s 
shoulder a sniff. “I can’t see any injury, but you never 
know. Get some rest, and see Sagewhisker if the pain 
doesn’t clear up.” She turned away to choose some 
prey for herself. 

Yellowpaw didn’t want to rest. J feel okay now, she 
thought. Maybe I just landed badly. 

When she had finished her share of the squirrel, she 
decided she would go off by herself to practice the 
new move. She still wasn’t used to being able to leave 
the camp on her own and she felt a thrill of confidence 
as she strode out through the thorns. When she had 
found a secluded spot in a hollow screened by holly 


bushes, she tried the move again: first the leap, and 
then rolling over to splay out her paws, ready to grab 
her opponent. 

It doesnt work so well with only one, she thought, 
disappointed. 

“Do you want any help?” 

The voice startled Yellowpaw; she looked up to see 
Raggedpaw standing at the top of the hollow. “No, I’m 
fine,” she mewed, scuffling her forepaws in the earth. 

Ignoring her refusal, Raggedpaw padded down to 
join her. “You really need a partner to do that move,” 
he meowed. 

Yellowpaw gave her fur a shake. J’d be mouse- 
brained not to let him help me. “Okay,” she agreed. 
Wont Deerleap be surprised when she sees I can 
do the move perfectly! 

Raggedpaw gave her a brisk nod. “T’ll leap and you 
grab,” he told her. “That way, you get to practice the 
difficult part.” 

At first, Yellowpaw was afraid that she was going to 
be squashed into the forest floor by the heavier 
apprentice. “I can’t get my paws in place fast 
enough,” she complained, sitting up and shaking scraps 


of dead leaf off her fur. 

“You have to watch me more closely,” Raggedpaw 
replied. “You should know when the leap is coming, 
and be ready. Try again.” 

This time, Yellowpaw spotted the tensing of 
Raggedpaw’s muscles before he leaped. She rolled 
onto her back and spread her paws wide. “Got you!” 
she yowled as she wrapped her paws around him and 
flipped him over. 

Raggedpaw scrambled to his paws and gave her a 
cool nod. “Better.” 

Better? Yellowpaw thought indignantly. Jt was 
brilliant! 

“You'll be able to do it next time you’re in a training 
session,” Raggedpaw went on. “Now I’ve got to go. I 
want to hunt before it gets dark.” 

“Thank you!” Yellowpaw called after him as he 
climbed back out of the hollow. “You really helped!” 

Raggedpaw didn’t respond. Yellowpaw stood 
blinking after him, surprised by her feelings of 
gratitude. Maybe he’s not so bad after all. 





CHAPTER 6 
I% 


“~ 
The early morning sunlight sparkled on the dewy 
grass and on the cobwebs draped across bushes and 
clumps of bracken. Yellowpaw paused to taste the air. 
The scent of damp earth flooded her jaws, with a trace 
of fresh green growth. 

Newleaf will be here soon. 

Yelowpaw and her littermates were folowing 
Deerleap, on their way out of camp for a training 
session. As she leaped over a broken branch, she 
spotted a hint of green. She turned back, pushing the 
branch aside, and discovered a few delicate shoots 
poking up through the covering of rotting leaves. Very 
gently Yellowpaw scraped away the debris, giving the 
shoots a chance to reach the sun. Bending down to 
give them a good sniff, she thought, /’m sure I’ve 
smelled this in Sagewhisker s den before. It must be 
an herb. 

As she straightened up, she heard yowls of 
excitement, and the two newest apprentices, Foxpaw 
and Wolfpaw, hurled themselves over the branch. 


Yellowpaw leaped backward to avoid being knocked 
over. Two sets of flying paws stomped down hard on 
the tiny shoots, crushing them into the earth. 

“Mouse-brains!” Yellowpaw called after them, her 
fur bristling in fury. “Watch where you’re going!” 

Brightflower, Foxpaw’s mentor, and Blizzardwing, 
who was mentoring Wolfpaw, followed their 
apprentices more slowly. Brightflower gave 
Yellowpaw an inquirmg look as she passed, but 
Yellowpaw just shrugged and brought up the rear. 

The rest of the apprentices and their mentors had 
gathered in a clearing not far from the marshes. 
Wolfpaw and Foxpaw were charging around the edge, 
shouldering aside Nutpaw and Rowanpaw if they 
happened to get in the way. 

Rowanpaw padded over to Yellowpaw. “They’re 
even more annoying than Raggedpaw and 
Scorchpaw.” 

Still angry over the damaged shoots, Yellowpaw 
nodded. “They’re acting like kits.” 

Deerleap called the cats together. “Today we’re 
going to do a hunting exercise,” she announced. 

“Aww, do we have to?” Wolfpaw interrupted. 


“That’s so boring! I want to fight!” 

Deerleap gave him a freezing glare. “If you like, 
Wolfpaw, you can go back to camp and search the 
elders for ticks.” 

‘Uh ... no.” Wolfpaw’s tail drooped. “I guess 
hunting is okay.” 

“Thank you so much,” Deerleap went on, an edge 
of sarcasm in her tone. “This morning you’re going to 
work in pairs. Nutpaw and Rowanpaw, you can work 
together. Yellowpaw, you go with Foxpaw.” Her tail-tip 
twitched. “Wolfpaw, seeing as there isn’t another 
apprentice to partner with, you'll have to work with 
me.” 

Yellowpaw was torn between enjoying Wolfpaw’s 
appalled expression, and dismay that she had to work 
with Foxpaw. She glanced at the younger apprentice, 
and saw that Foxpaw was giving her a dubious glance 
in reply. 

Okay, you dont like this any more than I do, 
Yellowpaw thought. But we have to put up with it for 
the sake of the Clan. 

Deerleap directed Yellowpaw and Foxpaw to head 
through the marshes and toward the Thunderpath. 


“Come back here when you’ve each caught one piece 
of prey,’ she directed. “And remember, you’re 
working together.” 

Yellowpaw padded carefully across the swampy 
ground, practicing her mentor’s instructions to look, 
listen, and scent. Meanwhile Foxpaw leaped from 
grassy clump to grassy clump, often landing instead in 
the shallow pools and splashing muddy water over her 
bright ginger pelt. 

Yellowpaw rolled her eyes. I suppose its one way 
of disguising your scent from the prey. She could 
hear the distant roar of the Thunderpath when Foxpaw 
gave an excited little bounce. “I can smell a pigeon! 
This way!” She dashed off. 

“She won’t catch a pigeon or anything else racing 
about like that,’ Yellowpaw muttered. She had picked 
up the pigeon scent at the same moment, but she had 
also scented something else. 

“Cats—and not ShadowClan cats,’ she mewed 
softly as she followed Foxpaw. “This could mean 
trouble.” 

She caught up to Foxpaw within sight of the 
Thunderpath. The young ginger she-cat was standing 


in the middle of a puddle of feathers, gazing down at 
them with a look of dismay. 

“Some other cat got here before us,’ she told 
Yellowpaw. 

“I can see that.” The scent of strange cats was 
stronger than ever. “And not a ShadowClan patrol.” 

“How do you know?” Foxpaw asked. 

Yellowpaw ignored the question. Zf she cant smell 
that ... She cast around the pool of feathers, her nose 
to the ground, until she spotted cat paw prints leading 
away in the direction of the Thunderpath. 

“Look at this,’ she meowed, beckoning Foxpaw 
with her tail. “See how small and light those paw prints 
are?” she pointed out when Foxpaw reached her side. 
‘TIl bet a moon of dawn patrols that they were made 
by WindClan cats.” 

“WindClan!” Foxpaw exclaimed. “Stealing our prey! 
They can’t do that. Let’s get them!” 

She was ready to charge off, but Yellowpaw stood 
in front of her. “Wait!” she snapped. “Are you mouse- 
brained?” 

“Are you scared?” Foxpaw retorted. 

“Never!” Yellowpaw’s voice was low and furious. 


“I just have some sense, that’s al. What do you 
suppose two apprentices are going to do, alone on 
WindClan territory? What we have to do is go and find 
our mentors.” 

She raced back across the marsh. Foxpaw pelted 
alongside her, looking mutinous. When they reached 
the training area, only Brightflower and Blizzardwing 
were there. 

“WindClan!” Yellowpaw gasped. 

“Stealing our prey!” Foxpaw added, bouncing on her 
paws. “Are we going to attack?” 

“Hold on!” Brightflower raised her tail. “Settle down 
and tell us what happened.” 

Yellowpaw began to explain what they had seen, 
trying to ignore Foxpaw’s attempts to interrupt. While 
she was speaking, Deerleap and Wolfpaw returned, 
closely followed by Nutpaw and Rowanpaw. 

“We can’t let this pass,” Brightflower meowed 
when Yellowpaw had finished. “We need to take a 
look. Yellowpaw, lead the way.” 

Yellowpaw was proud to pad at the head of the 
patrol as she took them through the marshes to where 
the pigeon feathers lay. Brightflower dipped her head 


to sniff at the cat paw prints. 

“Fresh,” she murmured. “And definitely WindClan. 
Two of them, I’d guess. Well scented, Yellowpaw.” 

“You have the best sense of smell,’ Deerleap 
meowed to Brightflower. “Why don’t you follow these 
tracks and see where they lead? Take Blizzardwing 
with you in case the WindClan cats are still lurking 
around. We’ll wait for you here.” 

Brightflower nodded and headed toward the 
Thunderpath, with Blizzardwing hard on her paws. 
Yellowpaw waited impatiently until she saw both 
warriors racing back. 

“The paw prints lead to that new tunnel the Twolegs 
made under the Thunderpath,” Blizzardwing reported. 
“And we know where that leads: WindClan territory!” 

“What are we going to do?” Rowanpaw demanded. 

Brightflower and Blizzardwing both looked at 
Deerleap, as senior warrior. She thought for a moment. 
“Blizzardwing, you should go back to camp and fetch 
reinforcements,” she replied at last. “Foxpaw and 
Wolfpaw, go with him, and stay in the camp.” 

“What?” Wolfpaw exclaimed, dismayed. “We want 
to fight!” 


“Yeah, we know some awesome moves,” Foxpaw 
added. 

“Certainly not,” Deerleap meowed. “You’re both too 
young for battle.” Turning to Yellowpaw and her 
littermates, she added, “Do you feel ready for your 
first attack on an enemy?” 

Yellowpaw’s belly flipped over. “Yes!” she choked 
out. 

Her littermates’ eyes were wide with shock; they 
glanced at each other, then nodded. 

“Not fair,’ Wolfpaw muttered. “We can fight as well 
as them.” 

Deerleap ignored his comment. “We’ll wait for you 
near the tunnel entrance,” she told Blizzardwing. 

The white tom rounded up the younger apprentices 
and set off back to camp. When they had gone, 
Deerleap led the way along the line of the tracks until 
they came in sight of the narrow tunnel that led to 
WindClan. Yellowpaw could smell the WindClan scent 
even more strongly here. 

“We’ll stop here,’ Deerleap announced, halting 
beside a clump of long, marshy grass. “Settle down so 
you can’t be seen. And if any WindClan cats come out 


of the tunnel, don’t even twitch a whisker until I give 
the word.” 

Yellowpaw obeyed, crouching down in the grass 
between Rowanpaw and Nutpaw. Her claws were 
extended and her muscles tensed to leap on any 
trespassers, but no cats had appeared by the time that 
Yellowpaw picked up a stronger ShadowClan scent 
and heard an approaching patrol brushing through the 
grass. 

Deerleap rose to meet them, signaling to the 
apprentices to do the same. Stonetooth, the Clan 
deputy, was in the lead, with Brackenfoot and Crowtail 
close behind. Yellowpaw was surprised and a bit 
disappointed to see that Raggedpaw and Scorchpaw 
were with their mentors. She’d wanted herself and her 
littermates to be the only apprentices to face down 
WindClan this time. 

“Where’s Blizzardwing?” Deerleap asked. 

“He stayed to help guard the camp,” Stonetooth 
meowed. “Just in case WindClan thinks it can bring the 
battle to us.” 

Deerleap sniffed. “I'd like to see them try.” 

Excitement bubbled up inside Yellowpaw as the 


patrol prepared to leave. “We’ll make WindClan sorry 
they ever touched our prey.” 

“Calm down,” Raggedpaw mewed. “This is what 
warriors do.” 

“Yeah,” Scorchpaw added. “It’s just part of living in 
a Clan.” 

“It’s your first time in battle too,’ Nutpaw snorted, 
“so don’t pretend you’ re not excited.” 

Yellowpaw could see that her littermate was right. 
Scorchpaw was working his claws in the grass, and 
Raggedpaw’s amber eyes gleamed. 

Stonetooth gathered the patrol with a wave of his 
tail. “PI lead,” he announced. “Brackenfoot, you bring 
up the rear, and keep an eye out for trouble behind.” 
The pale ginger tom nodded. Turning to the 
apprentices, Stonetooth went on. “Listen to everything 
I say. We won’t attack right away. We’ll give 
WindClan a chance to explain themselves first.” 

“Like they'll be able to explain WindClan scent and 
pigeon feathers inside our borders,” Deerleap snarled. 

The patrol set off in single file. Yellowpaw was 
close to the rear, just ahead of Raggedpaw and her 
father. The tunnel under the Thunderpath was 


narrower than she had realized—much smaller than 
the one Deerleap had shown her on their first tour of 
the territory—and dark. Yellowpaw jumped, her heart 
beginning to pound, at a roaring noise that seemed to 
fill the whole of it. 

“It’s okay,” Brackenfoot meowed from behind her. 
“It’s only monsters going past on the Thunderpath.” 

Forcing herself to relax, Yellowpaw followed the 
scent of Crowtail, who was walking in front of her. / 
wonder what would happen if we met WindClan 
cats coming the other way. She tried to work out how 
she could use her battle moves in such a tight space. 
Soon she could scent fresh air coming from 
somewhere ahead. A few heartbeats later Crowtail 
scrambled upward, showering scraps of earth and 
debris down on Yellowpaw. Blinking, Yellowpaw 
followed, and broke out into the open. As Raggedpaw 
and Brackenfoot emerged after her, she took a huge 
breath and looked around. 

I’m on WindClan territory now! 

Yellowpaw felt as if every hair on her pelt was 
standing on end with the thrill of bemg across enemy 
borders. Behind her, monsters roared up and down the 


Thunderpath. In front, a wide stretch of grass swelled 
to the horizon in an unbroken sweep. Wind blew from 
the hilltop toward the ShadowClan cats, ruffling their 
fur and bringing with it the scents of cats and rabbits. 

Stonetooth waved his tail. “This way. Stay 
together.” 

“I’m surprised the WindClan cats can catch 
anything in these open spaces,” Yellowpaw mewed to 
Nutpaw as they followed the Clan deputy toward the 
top of the moor. 

“I know,” Nutpaw agreed. “I can hardly hear myself 
speak, with the wind in my ear fur.” 

“Look!” Rowanpaw flicked her tail over 
Yellowpaw’s shoulder. 

Gazing upward, Yellowpaw spotted a scrawny 
WindClan warrior outlined against the sky. The cat 
stood motionless for a heartbeat, then turned tail and 
vanished down the other side of the hill. 

“Gone to warn his Clanmates,” Nutpaw muttered. 

“I still can’t believe how skinny they are!” 
Yellowpaw mewed. “And their smell is weird, like 
rabbits and windblown grass.” 

She remembered the first time she had seen 


WindClan cats, at her first Gathering almost a moon 
ago, but the memory was blurred. There were so 
many cats ... so much noise ... She had looked 
forward to her first Gathering for as long as she could 
remember, but it had been overwhelming, busy and full 
of chatter and conflicting scents. Yellowpaw had felt 
too timid to go and talk to any cats from the rival 
Clans, instead staying among the ShadowClan 
apprentices. Afterward she had felt stupid and 
embarrassed for being so shy, but Deerleap told her 
lots of apprentices felt that way, and sometimes even 
senior warriors. The next Gathering would be easier, 
she promised. 

Now Yellowpaw felt strong and confident as she 
strode out across the moor. [lm part of a 
ShadowClan patrol. I’m going to fight for my Clan! 

When the ShadowClan cats reached the brow of the 
hill, they spotted a patrol of WindClan cats heading 
across the moor toward them. Stonetooth halted, 
signaling with his tail for the rest to do the same. 
“We’ll let them come to us,” he meowed. 

Leading the WindClan patrol was a light brown 
tabby tom. Yellowpaw remembered Deerleap pointing 


him out to her at the Gathering; he was Reedfeather, 
the WindClan deputy. Stonetooth stepped forward to 
face Reedfeather as the WindClan cats approached. 

“What are you doing on our territory?” Reedfeather 
demanded. 

“Don’t you know?” Stonetooth challenged. “We 
found pigeon feathers on our side of the Thunderpath, 
with WindClan scent and paw marks. You’ve been 
stealing our prey!” 

“We’ve done nothing of the sort,’ Reedfeather 
retorted. “We chased that pigeon from our own 
territory, and that makes it WindClan prey.” 

“That’s not true, and you know it,’ Stonetooth 
growled, sliding out his claws. 

Reedfeather tensed his muscles, his neck fur 
bristling. Yellowpaw could smell his fear. The 
WindClan patrol was smaller, and the cats looked too 
weak and skinny to fight well. For a moment 
Yellowpaw felt a pang of sympathy. These cats look 
as if they havent had a good meal in moons. 
Maybe they deserved that pigeon. Then she gave 
herself a shake. Thats mouse-brained! I’m a 
ShadowClan warrior—or I will be soon—and these 


are my enemies! 

“You need to leave,” Reedfeather hissed. “You’re 
not welcome on our territory.” 

“We’re not going anywhere until you’ve been taught 
a lesson,” Stonetooth responded. 

Yellowpaw saw Reedfeather’s gaze flicker. “All 
right,” he mewed wearily. “You’ve made your point. 
We’ll stay on our own side of the border from now 
on.” 

Stonetooth didn’t reply with words. Instead, he 
leaped onto the WindClan deputy, bearing him to the 
ground. A heartbeat later, fighting exploded all around 
Yellowpaw. For a moment she stood frozen; the whole 
world seemed to be filled with screeching, clawing 
cats, and she didn’t know which paw to use first. 

Then she pulled herself together and lunged at a 
WindClan cat who was on top of Nutpaw, pummeling 
him with strong paws. The WindClan cat lashed out at 
her with a wild blow that only riffled her whiskers, then 
scrambled away. 

“Thanks!” Nutpaw gasped. 

Yellowpaw whirled around as she felt a burning 
scratch all down one side, but she couldn’t spot the cat 


who had dealt the blow. Instead, a huge dark tabby 
tom bore down on her, his amber eyes blazing. 
Yellowpaw gulped. She had thought of these cats as 
small and skinny, but they were full-grown, and this 
one was much bigger than she was. Frantically she 
tried to remember her battle moves. She darted at the 
WindClan tom, intending to strike a blow and spring 
back out of range, but the tom was ready for her. He 
ducked away from her claws and swiped her so hard 
over the ear with one forepaw that she staggered and 
for a heartbeat the sky went dark. She lashed out 
again, remembering the move that Raggedpaw had 
helped her practice, but as she tried to twist in the air 
the tom batted her down so that she landed all wrong. 

He's too strong, Yellowpaw thought despairingly as 
she struggled to her paws again. 

“Out of the way!” A voice sounded in Yellowpaw’s 
ear and a paw scooped her to one side. With a gasp of 
shock she saw Raggedpaw flash past her and hurl 
himself onto the big tom. Raggedpaw’s claws dug into 
the WindClan warrior’s shoulders and blood started to 
well up. With a yowl of pain the tom flung Raggedpaw 
off and fled. Raggedpaw sprang to his paws, ignoring 


Yellowpaw, then dashed into a fight between 
Scorchpaw and Reedfeather. 

Yellowpaw stayed where she was, panting. 
Raggedpaw thought he had to rescue me! she 
thought indignantly, but she couldn’t help admiring his 
courage and his fighting skill. As she rose to her paws 
again she winced with pain; it felt as if every scrap of 
her pelt had been ripped off. But when she checked 
her fur and flexed each paw in turn, she couldn’t find 
any wounds except for the scratch along her side. 

Glancing around to find another opponent, 
Yellowpaw realized that the fight was all but over. 
Most of the WindClan cats were pelting across the 
moor. Reedfeather was the last to break away and 
race after his Clanmates, with Rowanpaw hard on his 
paws. 

“No!” Stonetooth commanded. “Rowanpaw, come 
back!” As Yellowpaw’s sister returned, growling 
angrily, the Clan deputy continued, “There is no need to 
pursue a defeated enemy.” 

Yellowpaw thought she could discern sympathy in 
the deputy’s voice and his eyes as he gazed after the 
vanishing WindClan patrol. But he did not admit as 


much out loud. Instead he raised his tail. “Back to our 
territory,’ he ordered. “There’s nothing more to do 
here.” 

As they headed back down the hill toward the 
tunnel, the apprentices bunched together. 

“Did you see me scratch that black she-cat’s nose?” 
Nutpaw puffed. “She ran like a rabbit!” 

“I did the latest move Finchflight taught me,” 
Rowanpaw put in. “The WindClan cat looked so 
surprised!” 

Yellowpaw couldn’t join in their chattering. With 
every heartbeat, she was growing more annoyed that 
Raggedpaw had flung her aside in the battle. None of 
the other apprentices had to be rescued. Does he 
think I cant fight? 

The rest of ShadowClan greeted the returning patrol 
with yowls of welcome. 

“Thank you all,’ Cedarstar meowed, meeting them 
in the center of the camp. “You have shown our 
enemies that we in ShadowClan have teeth and claws 
to defend what is ours. Tonight we will hold a feast in 
your honor.” 

Extra hunting patrols went out, and as the sun set 


the whole Clan gathered in the clearing to eat. 
Yellowpaw felt proud and a bit embarrassed when she 
and the rest of the patrol were allowed to choose the 
best pieces of fresh-kill before any of the other 
warriors. 

“I can’t believe we got to go on a real mission!” she 
whispered to Nutpaw as she settled down with a 
plump starling. 

“I wish I’d been there,” Toadskip meowed, digging 
his claws into the floor of the camp. “But I was out on 
a hunting patrol. I have the worst luck.” 

“There'll be other chances,” Hollyflower told him 
with a twitch of her whiskers. “WindClan isn’t going to 
go away.” 

“And ShadowClan will be ready for them,” Archeye 
added. 

A shiver of delight went through Yellowpaw as she 
listened to the senior warriors. I’m glad I belong to 
such a strong Clan! 

When the Clan was full-fed and lay drowsily sharing 
tongues, Stonetooth rose to his paws and told the story 
of the battle against WindClan so that every cat could 
hear. 


“WindClan won’t bother us again for a very long 
time,” he finished, “and part of that is thanks to the five 
apprentices who were with us. Our Clan should be 
proud of them.” 

“Those are wise words,’ Cedarstar responded, 
rising to stand beside his deputy. “And from what you 
tell me, there is already a new warrior among us. 
Raggedpaw, come here.” 

The dark tabby tom sprang up from his place beside 
Scorchpaw. For a moment he hesitated, glancing 
around wildly; then he padded forward to stand in front 
of his leader. Murmurs of surprise rose from the rest 
of the Clan. 

The Clan was silent again as Cedarstar raised his 
tail and began to address them. “T, Cedarstar, leader of 
ShadowClan, call upon my warrior ancestors to look 
down on this apprentice,” he meowed. “He has trained 
hard to understand the ways of your noble code, and 
he has proven in battle that he is worthy to become a 
warrior. Raggedpaw, do you promise to uphold the 
warrior code and to protect and defend your Clan, 
even at the cost of your life?” 

Raggedpaw’s voice rang out clear and confident. “T 


do.” 

“Then by the power of StarClan I give you your 
warrior name,” Cedarstar went on. “Raggedpaw, from 
this time on, you shall be known as Raggedpelt. 
StarClan honors your courage and your skill in battle.” 
He bent his head to rest his muzzle on Raggedpelt’s 
head, and Raggedpelt licked his shoulder in response. 

“Raggedpelt! Raggedpelt! Raggedpelt!” the Clan 
yowled, their eyes gleaming in the gathering darkness. 

Yellowpaw joined in somewhat reluctantly. J still 
feel bruised all over from being thrown out of the 
way as if I was a troublesome kit. She noticed 
Scorchpaw looking furious that he hadn’t been made a 
warrior along with his brother, and felt a stab of 
sympathy. It must be tough, falling behind your 
littermate. 

As the yowls died away, Yellowpaw was surprised 
to see Raggedpelt padding across the clearing toward 
her. He halted in front of her and dipped his head. 
“Yellowpaw, I’m sorry I pushed you aside in the 
battle,” he mewed. “It’s not that I think you can’t fight, 
but that WindClan cat was too strong for you.” 

Yellowpaw opened her jaws for a stinging retort, 


then stopped herself. Remembering the huge WindClan 
tom, she had to admit he was right. J’d be licking my 
wounds in Sagewhisker s den right now, if it wasnt 
for Raggedpelt. “It’s okay,” she muttered. 

Raggedpelt let out a brief purr. “I’m looking forward 
to joming you on patrols when you’re a warrior,” he 
told her, then dipped his head again and padded off to 
join the other warriors. 

Rowanpaw leaned closer to Yellowpaw, a glint of 
amusement in her eyes. “Raggedpelt likes you,’ she 
teased. 

‘Don’t talk nonsense,” Yellowpaw retorted. “He’s 
just a Clanmate, that’s all.” 

But as she watched Raggedpelt jon Brackenfoot 
and Featherstorm outside the warriors’ den, 
Yellowpaw felt a warm glow spreading through her 
from ears to tailtip. 

Raggedpelt came looking for me. Maybe he 
doesnt think I’ma troublesome kit anymore! 





CHAPTER 7 
w& 


-o 

A full moon floated in the sky, shedding silver light 
over the four great oaks of Fourtrees. With her 
Clanmates all around her, Yelowpaw folowed 
Cedarstar as he wound around clumps of fern toward 
the bottom of the hollow. The ShadowClan cats were 
the last to arrive, and the slopes were already crowded 
with the cats of the other three Clans. 

It was only Yellowpaw’s second Gathering, and she 
was still daunted by the number of eyes gleaming from 
the shadows, and the unfamiliar scents. The yowls of 
the assembled warriors echoed around the hollow, with 
the four trees looming above them all. 

“Yow ll be fine,” Brightflower murmured, slipping to 
her side as they reached the base of the slope. 

“Of course you will,’ Brackenfoot agreed. “I used 
to get nervous when I first went to Gatherings. Look, 
sit here.” He waved his tail to a spot sheltered by 
overarching fronds of bracken. “You'll get a good 
view, but you won’t be seen easily, and the ferns will 
keep other cats from crowding you too much.” 


Yellowpaw touched her father’s shoulder with her 
nose, grateful for his understanding, then settled down 
in the spot he had pointed out. She watched as 
Archeye, Featherstorm, and Toadskip padded past her, 
and the rest of her Clan found spaces for themselves. 

“Who are those cats?” she asked Brackenfoot, 
angling her ears toward two sleek, well-fed warriors. 
“I don’t remember seeing them last time. They look ... 
different somehow.” 

“That’s Oakheart and Timberfur from RiverClan,” 
her father replied. “We don’t see much of them 
because we don’t have a border with them.” 

“The reason they look plump and shiny is because 
they eat fish from the river,” Brightflower added. “But 
they’re just warriors like the rest of us.” 

Yellowpaw wrinkled her nose. She had caught a 
minnow once, in one of the streams that ran through 
ShadowClan territory, and she hadn’t much liked it. 7’m 
glad I’m not a RiverClan cat. 

She couldn’t ask any more questions because 
Cedarstar leaped onto the Great Rock to join the other 
three leaders. Yellowpaw’s nervousness ebbed, and 
she felt a prickle of curiosity. What news will the 


other leaders tell us tonight? 

Then she suppressed a sigh as Foxpaw bounced into 
sight, pushing her way through the undergrowth to 
Raggedpelt’s side. 

“Raggedpelt!” she panted. “There are some 
RiverClan apprentices over here, and I’ve been telling 
them how you fought off the WindClan warriors. 
Come and meet them.” 

Raggedpelt shook his head. 

“Come on!” Foxpaw nudged him impatiently. “They 
want to see your fighting moves.” 

Yellowpaw spotted a glint of anger in Raggedpelt’s 
eyes. “No,” he meowed. “The Gathering is a time of 
peace. There’s no fighting allowed—and you shouldn’t 
be stirring up trouble by talking about battles between 
the Clans.” 

Foxpaw glared at him. “You think you know 
everything, just because you’re a warrior now!” 
Spinning around, she stormed off. 

Raggedpelt shrugged and started looking for a place 
to sit. Still feeling slightly in awe of his new warrior 
status, Yellowpaw stood up and went over to him. 

“Foxpaw is a stupid furball”’ she muttered. “You 


were right not to—” 

She broke off as WindClan scent wafted over her 
and she realized that several young warriors had 
surrounded her and Raggedpelt, pacing around them so 
they couldn’t keep an eye on all of them at once. 
Yellowpaw recognized at least one of them who had 
been in the battle on WindClan territory. He was the 
first to speak. 

“Not so brave now, are you?” he sneered. “Not 
without your mentor and your Clanmates.” 

Yellowpaw felt Raggedpelt tense beneath his fur. 
“This isn’t the time to talk about fighting,” he replied. 

One of the other WindClan cats gave a snort of 
disgust. “That’s a good excuse!” 

“Go away, flea-pelts!” Yellowpaw snapped. “You 
wouldn’t dare say that to Raggedpelt if he was allowed 
to fight you.” 

“Oh, so you’re Raggedpelt now,” a third WindClan 
cat put in. “ShadowClan must be really short of 
warriors.” 

“Yeah, he needs an apprentice to defend him,” the 
third cat mewed contemptuously. “Just what yov’ d 
expect from a kittypet.” 


Yellowpaw saw Raggedpelt freeze. Thats the 
worst thing any cat could say to him! 

Raggedpelt’s claws slid out. He spun around to face 
the cat who was taunting him. “What did you just call 
me?” he snarled, his voice low and dangerous. “Say it 
again, and I’ll slice your ears off!” 

No! Yellowpaw thought, fighting back panic. 
Raggedpelt will get into all kinds of trouble if he 
fights at a Gathering. Swiftly she jumped between 
the two cats. “Where did you hear that?” she 
challenged the WindClan warrior. 

“Every cat knows it,” he retorted. “Still, I admit that 
Raggedpelt fights well ... for a soft kitty.” 

Raggedpelt was shouldering Yellowpaw aside when 
a new voice broke in. “What’s all this?” 

Yellowpaw looked up to see Reedfeather, the 
WindClan deputy, striding toward them through the 
bracken. His eyes were narrowed and his neck fur 


bristling. 
“Uh ... we were just ...” one of the young 
WindClan cats began. 


“Get back to your own Clanmates,” Reedfeather 
meowed sternly. “The Gathering is about to start.” 


For a heartbeat Yellowpaw thought that the cat who 
had started all the trouble was about to protest. Then 
he clearly thought better of it, and slunk past his deputy 
to the place farther around the hollow where most of 
WindClan was assembled. His friends followed him, 
ther heads down and thei tails drooping. 
Reedfeather’s glance swept across Yellowpaw and 
Raggedpelt, and he gave them a tiny nod before he 
padded after his Clanmates. 

Raggedpelt’s claws were still digging into the soft 
earth of the hollow. His fur bristled and his eyes blazed 
as he watched the WindClan cats depart. 

“Calm down!” Yellowpaw whispered. “Cedarstar 
can see you from up there.” 

The anger died from Raggedpelt’s eyes, to be 
replaced by something dark and shadowed. “I hate it 
when they gossip about me.” 

Sympathy surged up inside Yellowpaw. It must be 
terrible, not knowing who your father is, she 
thought, remembering how much she owed to 
Brackenfoot. “Have you asked Featherstorm about 
your father?” she mewed hesitantly. 

“Over and over.” Raggedpelt sighed. “But she 


won’t tell me. She says it doesn’t matter, as long as 
I’m only loyal to ShadowClan.” 

But Yellowpaw could tell that it did matter to 
Raggedpelt. “What about Scorchpaw? Does he know 
anything?” 

Raggedpelt shrugged. “Scorchpaw doesn’t care. 
But I ...” He let his voice trail off. 

Yellowpaw was stretching out her tail to touch his 
shoulder when a yowl rang out across the clearing. 

“Cats of all Clans!” 

Looking up at the Great Rock, Yellowpaw saw 
Pinestar, leader of ThunderClan, standing in front of 
the other leaders, ready to start the Gathering. 
Raggedpelt settled down beside her, and there was no 
more time to talk. 

All the same, Yellowpaw thought, J wont forget 
this. I have to help Raggedpelt somehow. This isn t 
over. 


Curled in her nest later that night, Yellowpaw found 
it hard to settle down. Though she was tired from the 
Gathering, she couldn’t get Raggedpelt out of her 
mind. I’ve always known who my mother and father 
are, she thought. Even if Brackenfoot had died, I'd 


remember him. And I love that I look like 
Brightflower, she added to herself, giving her thick tail 
a lick. It means I feel safe in my Clan. Raggedpelt 
ought to be able to feel that, too. She heaved a deep 
sigh as she remembered how bravely Raggedpelt had 
attacked the WindClan tom. Hes such a brilliant 
warrior! Theres no way that hes half kittypet ... is 
he? 

Suddenly Yellowpaw sat up, disturbing Rowanpaw, 
who muttered something crossly and wrapped her tail 
over her ears. 

“Raggedpelt deserves to know the truth,” 
Yellowpaw whispered out loud. “Whatever happens, 
nothing is more important than that, surely? I have to 
find out who his father is!” 


She woke as dawn light began to seep into the 
apprentices’ den. Careful not to disturb her denmates, 
she slid into the open. Everything was quiet in the 
camp. Hollyflower, who was on guard duty beside the 
gap in the brambles, was yawning, but no other cat 
was stirring. 

I have to get this done before Deerleap comes 
looking for me. 


Yellowpaw padded across the camp to the elders’ 
den and poked her head inside. She still felt a pang of 
grief to see only two cats curled up in the thick moss. 
Silverflame should be here too. 

Scrambling inside, Yellowpaw gave Lizardfang a 
gentle prod. “Wake up!” she mewed. “I need to ask 
you something.” 

Lizardfang twitched an ear. “Sure, ask away,” he 
mumbled, and sank back into sleep. 

Suppressing a hiss of frustration, Yellowpaw turned 
to Littlebird, jabbing her a bit less gently in the ribs. 
“Littlebird, please wake up! It’s important.” 

Littlebird blinked up at her. “What’s the matter?” 
She stretched her jaws in a huge yawn. “Yellowpaw 
... what do you want?” 

“T have to talk to you,” Yellowpaw mewed. 

Roused again by the noise and movement, 
Lizardfang heaved himself out of his nest, scrabbling at 
the moss. “Ts it an attack?” 

“No, it’s okay, Lizardfang,” Yellowpaw soothed. “I 
just need you to answer some questions.” 

“Questions?” the old tom spat. “It’s the middle of 
the night!” 


Littlebird sighed. “Well, we’re awake now. Ask 
away, Yellowpaw.” 

Yellowpaw took a deep breath. “What can you tell 
me about Raggedpelt’s father?” 

Lizardfang let out a disbelieving hiss. “You woke us 
up so that we can gossip about Featherstorm? That’s 
not going to happen.” Turning his back on Yellowpaw, 
he curled up again among the moss, closed his eyes, 
and wrapped his tail over his nose. 

Yellowpaw turned to Littlebird. “Please!” she 
begged. “This is really important to Raggedpelt. He 
has to know the truth about his father!” 

The small ginger she-cat hesitated for a couple of 
heartbeats. “Well ...” she began. “I’m like Lizardfang, 
I don’t want to gossip” 

“But Raggedpelt—” 

“Let me finish,” Littlebird went on. ““You’re like all 
the young cats, Yellowpaw. No patience at all. What I 
was going to say was, I don’t know very much. But in 
the moons before Raggedpelt and Scorchpaw were 
born, Featherstorm spent a lot of time near the border 
with the Twolegplace—not far from the big sycamore 
tree with the dead branch.” 


“I know where that is!” Yellowpaw meowed. “Do 
you think if I go there, I might find Raggedpelt’s 
father?” Excitement tingled in her paws. 

“Don’t you do anything foolish, now,” the elder 
warned her as she settled back in her bedding. 

“T won’t, I promise!” 

Yellowpaw scrambled out of the elders’ den. By 
now the dawn light was brightening, and Stonetooth 
was organizing the day’s patrols in the middle of the 
clearing. Yellowpaw spotted Deerleap emerging from 
the warriors’ den and bounded over to meet her. 

Theres no time to do anything about 
Raggedpelt’s father today, she thought. But tonight 
... I’m going to help him discover the truth! 


Yellowpaw waited impatiently for her denmates to 
go to sleep. Nutpaw and Scorchpaw had burrowed into 
their bedding immediately and the soft sound of their 
snoring filled the den. Rowanpaw spent some time 
grooming her tail, then curled up neatly with it wrapped 
over her nose. But Wolfpaw and Foxpaw went on 
chattering like a pair of starlings until Yellowpaw could 
have cheerfully shredded their ears. 

“Settle down, you two,” she meowed at last. “Can’t 


a cat get any sleep around here?” 

“Youre not our mentor. You can’t tell us what to 
do,” Foxpaw muttered. 

The two young cats went on telling each other about 
their catches at hunting practice, but to Yellowpaw’s 
relief they soon were yawning more than they talked, 
and moments later both of them were quiet and 
breathing steadily. Yellowpaw waited a little longer to 
make sure they were really asleep, and then crept out. 

The sky was clear and the moon filled the camp 
with an eerie, pale light. Nettlespot, on duty beside the 
entrance, looked like a cat made of ice. We dont want 
her asking what we're doing outside the camp at 
night, Yellowpaw thought. We’ll need to use the 
dirtplace tunnel to get out. 

Cautiously, slipping from shadow to shadow, she 
crossed the clearing to the warriors’ den. She could 
make out Raggedpelt’s tabby pelt through the gaps 
between the branches, but it was too far for her to 
reach through and prod him with a paw. 

“Raggedpelt!” she whispered. “Wake up!” 

She was worried that the warrior was too deeply 
asleep to hear her, but to her relief, Raggedpelt stirred 


and raised his head, looking around as if he thought the 
voice had come from inside the den. 

“Here—outside!” Yellowpaw hissed. “It’s me, 
Yellowpaw.” 

Raggedpelt peered at her through the branches. 
“What do you want?” 

“Come here. I have to tell you something.” 

The tabby tom hesitated, then nodded. “Okay. 
Wait.” 

Yellowpaw flexed her claws until she saw 
Raggedpelt emerging from the den. He padded up to 
her, yawning and bleary-eyed. 

“What is it?” he demanded. 

“I can’t tell you here,’ Yellowpaw replied. “We 
have to go outside the camp.” 

Raggedpelt blinked in surprise, then seemed to 
decide that it wasn’t worth arguing. 

“We can’t let Nettlespot see us,’ Yellowpaw went 
on. “Follow me. We’ll use the dirtplace tunnel.” 

She padded to the narrow gap behind the warriors’ 
den and breathed a sigh of relief once they were well 
away from the camp. The air was still, and Yellowpaw 
sniffed deeply at the fresh scents of growing things. 


Not far away she could hear the gentle gurgling of a 
stream, and closer still the scuffling of small prey in the 
undergrowth, but this was no time for hunting. 

“What’s going on?” Raggedpelt growled, pacing 
alongside her. “Why have you brought me out here?” 

Yellowpaw turned to him triumphantly. “We’re going 
to find your father.” 

Raggedpelt halted. For a moment his eyes blazed 
with anger. “That’s a terrible idea!” 

“Why?” Yellowpaw challenged him. “You want to 
know who he is, and Featherstorm won’t tell you, so all 
you can do is find out for yourself.” 

Raggedpelt shook his head. “We’d have to search 
the whole of Twolegplace,” he objected. “We’d have 
to check out all the rogues and loners ... and 
kittypets,” he admitted reluctantly. “And we still 
wouldn’t be certain of finding him.” 

“I know we can’t be certain,” Yellowpaw mewed. 
“But it’s worth a try, isn’t it? Or have you forgotten 
how much you need to know the truth?” 

Raggedpelt sighed. “Okay, let’s do it. I can see what 
you’re thinking, Yellowpaw,” he added. “You'll go to 
Twolegplace by yourself if I don’t come with you, and 


StarClan knows what sort of trouble you’ll get into.” 

Yellowpaw bounced on her paws with satisfaction. 
She set off again toward the sycamore, picking up the 
pace until she was pelting through the forest with the 
grass brushing her belly fur, the moonwashed 
undergrowth whirling past her. Raggedpelt raced along 
at her shoulder. 

At last Yellowpaw halted, panting, under the bare 
branches of the sycamore. The walls of the 
Twolegplace reared up in front of her. As she gazed 
over the border a cloud drifted across the moon, 
leaving the forest around her so dark that she could 
barely see her own paws. The cold yellow lights of the 
Twolegplace seemed harsher by contrast, glaring down 
from thin trees made of some weird Twoleg stuff. 

“What now?” Raggedpelt prompted. 

“We go into Twolegplace and start asking questions, 
I guess,’ Yellowpaw meowed, with a stab of 
uncertainty. “Lets say one of our warriors— 
Amberleaf, maybe—has gone missing. We could ask 
the Twolegplace cats if they’ve seen her.” 

“Sounds mouse-brained to me,” Raggedpelt argued. 
“Why would one of our Clanmates go missing in 


Twolegplace?” 

Yellowpaw gave an exasperated sigh. “Stop being 
so logical! The Twolegplace cats won’t know that, 
will they? And we have to start somewhere.” 

Raggedpelt nodded slowly; Yellowpaw thought 
maybe he was starting to get excited. “Let’s go.” 

Side by side they left the pine trees behind and 
scrambled up a Twoleg fence. Balancing on the top, 
Yellowpaw looked down on a small square of grass 
with strong-smelling plants growing around the edges. 
Yellow light shone from the Twoleg den beyond. 
Everything was quiet. 

But as soon as Yellowpaw and Raggedpelt dropped 
down onto the grass a flurry of barking split the 
silence. A door opened in the den and a small white 
dog shot out, still barking. A Twoleg appeared behind it, 
yowling at the dog as it raced toward the two cats. As 
if they shared the same thought, Raggedpelt and 
Yellowpaw split up, pelting in opposite directions. The 
dog skidded to a halt, not knowing which cat to chase 
first. By the time it plunged after Raggedpelt, the tabby 
tom had already reached the fence that separated this 
den from the next. He stood poised with his claws 


digging into the top of the fence, while the dog tried to 
jump up at him, whining in frustration. 

Seeing that her Clanmate was safe, Yellowpaw 
bounded in a wide circle around the outside of the 
grass plot and scrambled up onto the fence a couple of 
fox-lengths farther along. Raggedpelt spotted her and 
gave her a nod. 

“Shove off, flea-pelt,’ he spat at the dog, then 
dropped down onto the next square of grass. 

Yellowpaw joined him, hearing more yowling from 
the Twoleg as she leaped, and the two cats stopped, 
panting. 

“What are you doing here, strangers?” 

The low growl came out of the darkness. 
Yellowpaw and Raggedpelt spun around, looking for 
the cat who had spoken. A moment later a huge ginger 
tom paced forward into the light from the den. He was 
wearing a collar, but his muscles rippled as he walked, 
and a torn ear showed that he had experienced at least 
one fight. There was a hostile gleam in his eyes. 

Yellowpaw gulped. Thats a kittypet? 

Two more cats appeared from the darkness, 
flanking the ginger tom. One of them was what 


Yellowpaw had always pictured when she thought of 
kittypets: a fluffy white she-cat wearing a collar with a 
bell on it. The other was smaller and scrawny, with a 
badly groomed russet pelt. The softness of her 
features showed that she was barely out of kithood. 

“You come from the forest, don’t you?” the fluffy 
cat mewed. Her tone was sharp. “You’re not welcome 
here.” 

Yellowpaw forgot all her plans to ask clever 
questions. “We’re looking for a tom who might have 
known a forest cat called Featherstorm,” she blurted 
out. 

The scrawny russet she-cat let out a hiss. “You 
have no right to ask us about anything!” 

“Hang on a moment, Red.” The big ginger tom 
narrowed his eyes. “Maybe we should let them ask 
their questions.” His glittermg gaze passed from 
Yellowpaw to Raggedpelt and back again. “That’s the 
best way to get rid of them. Otherwise, they’ll be 
back.” 

Red looked furious. “Honestly, Marmalade, you’ll be 
making friends with dogs next! Why don’t we just 
chase them off with a scratch or two to remember us 


by?” 

“We might not be the only cats to get scratched,” 
Raggedpelt growled, sliding out his claws. 

“That’s enough!” The white she-cat raised her tail. 
“Tf we let you ask a question, will you leave?” 

Instead of answering, Raggedpelt turned to 
Yellowpaw. “Is it worth asking?” he mewed. 

“Don’t you want to know the truth?” Yellowpaw 
asked. He can t give up now, we’ve come this far! 

“Are you going to stand there arguing?” Red asked 
scathingly. “Or are you coming with us?” 

“We’re coming,” Yellowpaw decided. 

The huge ginger tom leaped onto the fence at the 
far side of the enclosed space. Joming him, Yellowpaw 
saw that a narrow alley lay beyond, with a high wall of 
red stone at the other side. There was a strong smell 
of crow-food. 

As she paused at the top of the fence, the white 
she-cat gave her a push. “Get a move on.” 

Yellowpaw lost her balance and fell ungracefully 
into the alleyway, barely managing to twist herself in 
midair so that she landed paws first. 

“Well done, Pixie.” Red’s voice was cold as she 


looked down from the fence. “Show them who’s in 
charge.” 

Marmalade led them along the alley. The wooden 
fence gave way to another wall of red stone; 
Yellowpaw’s heart raced; she felt as though she was 
padding along at the bottom of a crevasse. Eventually 
the alley led into an open space surrounded by shabby 
Twoleg dens. The reek of crow-food was joined by 
other scents: monsters and a smell that reminded 
Yellowpaw of a blackened stump in the forest that 
Deerleap told her had been struck by lightning moons 
ago. 

Yellowpaw blinked as she spotted movement and 
the gleam of eyes in the shadows. There are other 
cats here! 

“Just think!” she whispered, turning to Raggedpelt. 
“You might be about to meet your father!” 

Raggedpelt didn’t reply, but his eyes were troubled, 
and Yellowpaw could feel his pelt bristling against hers. 

The three kittypets crowded around Yellowpaw and 
Raggedpelt, urging them into the middle of the open 
space. At the same time, more cats began slinking out 
from the shadows. Some of them were wearing 


collars, but others looked more like rogues, with skinny 
bodies and flea-bitten pelts. Yellowpaw was 
uncomfortably aware that they were way outnumbered 
if it came to a fight. 

“These are cats from the forest,’ Marmalade 
announced. “They want to ask some questions.” 

“Hi.” Yellowpaw felt hot and uncomfortable to be 
the focus of so many staring eyes. “I’m Yellowpaw, 
and this is Raggedpelt. We come from ShadowClan,” 
she ended proudly. 

“Never heard of it,” a black she-cat sniffed. 

“Are you really from the forest?” A gray tom 
padded up to Yellowpaw and her Clanmate, sniffing at 
them. “Yeah, you smell of trees.” 

“Get away from them, Boulder,’ Pixie snarled, 
giving the gray tom a shove. 

“But I’ve always wondered what it would be like to 
live beyond the fence,” Boulder protested. 

“Sit down and be quiet.” The gray tom was 
interrupted by a black-and-white she-cat, so old that 
her muzzle was grizzled and all her teeth had gone. 
Yellowpaw tried not to stare. She looks even older 
than our elders! “No one wants to listen to you 


meowing nonstop about the forest,” the old cat hissed 
at Boulder. 

Boulder sat down, looking annoyed. Yellowpaw 
guessed that the old cat was some kind of leader, 
though this collection of cats didn’t look at all like a 
Clan. Maybe they look up to her because shes so 
old. 

She spotted a black she-cat rolling her eyes, and 
heard her whisper to Boulder, “Don’t let Jay worry 
you. She’s just a bossy old furball.” 

“Questions, you said?” the old cat, Jay, rasped. “All 
right, you can ask one. Let’s hear it.” 

Raggedpelt nudged Yellowpaw. “I told you this was 
a dumb idea. Let’s go.” 

“No!” Yellowpaw gave Raggedpelt a furious glare. 
“One question is all it will take. We’re looking for a cat 
who knew a forest cat called Featherstorm,’ she 
continued. “We—” 

“Speak up, can’t you?” Jay twitched her tail 
irritably. “I don’t know what’s the matter with you 
young cats. You all mumble into your fur.” 

“Sorry.” Yellowpaw raised her voice. “A cat who 
knew Featherstorm?” 


A small tabby-and-white she-cat flinched as 
Yellowpaw spoke the name, but she didn’t say 
anything. Jay shook her head, and all the other cats did 
the same. 

Raggedpelt looked discouraged. “I guess that’s it, 
then,” he mewed. 

Marmalade stepped forward. “You got your answer. 
You can leave now.” 

Pixie and Red padded up to join them again. 

“We don’t need an escort,” Raggedpelt snapped. 

“We aren’t offering one.” Marmalade slid out his 
claws. “I said now.” 

The other Twolegplace cats were gathering behind 
Marmalade. Yellowpaw could see the hostility in their 
eyes and the anger in their bristling fur. “It’s time we 
went,” she muttered. 

Raggedpelt’s fur was bristling too, and he drew back 
his lips in a snarl. “No kittypet tells me what to do.” 

“Mouse-brain! There’s no poit in spilling their 
blood.” Yellowpaw shoved his shoulder hard. “What 
are you going to prove by fighting kittypets? Run!” 

To her relief, Raggedpelt spun around and raced 
back down the alley, the way they had come. 


Yellowpaw followed; glancing back she saw 
Marmalade and more of the Twolegplace cats hard on 
their paws. 

“Faster!” she gasped. 

But as they came into sight of the first Twoleg 
fence, Marmalade and the others dropped back. “Stay 
away in the future!” Marmalade yowled after them. 

Just as Yellowpaw bunched her muscles to leap up 
onto the fence, a voice from the shadows called, 
“Wait!” 

Yellowpaw turned to see the small she-cat who had 
flinched at the mention of Featherstorm’s name. She 
was beckoning with one paw, her green eyes wide and 
nervous. 

“What do you want?” Raggedpelt growled. 

“There is a cat you need to speak to,” the she-cat 
replied. “Follow me.” 

Raggedpelt exchanged a glance with Yellowpaw. “It 
might be a trap,” he murmured. “Why should she help 
us?” 

“So that you'll stay away,” the she-cat replied. “We 
want nothing to do with wild cats like you.” 

“We have to risk it,” Yellowpaw insisted. “We have 


to know the truth!” 

Raggedpelt hesitated a moment more, then 
shrugged. “Okay. But I still think we both have bees in 
our brain.” 

The she-cat led the way around a corner and down 
another alley. “There was a forest cat hanging around 
here a while ago,’ she meowed. “Her name might 
have been Featherstorm. I haven’t seen her for ages, 
though.” 

Frustrated at coming so close to the information she 
needed, Yellowpaw slid out her claws. She didn’t mean 
to be threatening, but the she-cat gave her a glance of 
alarm. 

“That cat had nothing to do with me,” she mewed 
defensively. She nodded toward the shadows between 
two Twoleg dens. “Hal knew her better than any of us. 
Ask him.” 

Yellowpaw turned to see a pair of amber eyes 
gleaming in the darkness. She beckoned with her tail to 
Raggedpelt, who padded over to her. Meanwhile the 
small she-cat darted away, scrambled over a wall, and 
was gone. 

Hal blinked as Yellowpaw and _ Raggedpelt 


approached. It was so dark, it was impossible to tell 
what color he was. “I heard what she said,” he began, 
before they asked him anything. “I never knew a cat 
called Featherstorm. I have nothing to do with forest 
cats.” 

Yellowpaw could see that Hal was a kittypet; his 
collar gleamed as he shifted in the shadows. 

“Okay, sorry we bothered you,” Raggedpelt 
responded, turning away. 

Yellowpaw was following when instinct told her to 
glance back. Hal had emerged from the shadows and 
was slinking away along the line of Twoleg dens. 
Yellowpaw froze. The kittypet was a dark brown 
tabby, and except for the fact that his shoulders were 
broader and his muscles more filled out, he was the 
exact image of Raggedpelt. 

“Wait!” Yellowpaw yowled, running after him. “You 
must have known Featherstorm! Look—this is your 
son!” 

Hal turned back, his amber eyes growing cold. For a 
heartbeat he looked Raggedpelt up and down. “I don’t 
know what you’re talking about,” he snarled. “I have 
no son.” 


“But just look at him—” Yellowpaw began, waving 
her tail at Raggedpelt. Hal simply spun around and 
began padding away. 

“We have to go,” Raggedpelt interrupted. His voice 
was like ice. “This was a mouse-brained idea. We 
should never have come here.” 





CHAPTER 8 
w& 


“” 
“Yellowpaw! Yellowpaw!” 

Deerleap’s voice broke into a dream where 
Yellowpaw was searching through the forest, though 
she couldn’t remember what she was hunting for. It 
was a huge effort to open her eyes. When she tried to 
sit up, every muscle in her body shrieked with fatigue, 
and her paws were aching. 

What's the matter with me? Then the events of the 
night before came flooding back into her mind. She and 
Raggedpelt had visited the Twolegplace, and dawn 
wasn’t far off by the time they returned to their nests. 

And it was a disaster! 

“Yellowpaw!” Deerleap called again, sounding more 
impatient this time. 

Yellowpaw heaved herself out of her bedding. The 
other apprentices were stirring around her, looking 
bright-eyed and energetic. 

“Where did you go last night?” Rowanpaw hissed. 
“I woke up and you weren’t in your nest.” 

“It doesn’t matter,’ Yellowpaw muttered as she 


struggled out of the den. 

Outside Stonetooth was surrounded by a larger 
group of cats than usual. Even though she was so tired, 
Yellowpaw felt a tingle of excitement. 

“What’s happening?” she asked Deerleap. 

“We’re going to raid the rats in the Carrionplace,” 
Deerleap replied. “Prey is scarce, so Cedarstar 
decided to send two patrols to hunt there. With any 
luck, we'll catch enough to feed the whole Clan.” 

Mingled fear and anticipation crept through 
Yellowpaw. She was proud, too, that she had been 
chosen to go on this special raid. She could sense 
hopeful tension in the camp, as if every cat was 
looking forward to being full-fed when the raid was 
over. 

When she and Deerleap padded up to the crowd of 
cats, Stonetooth was organizing the patrols. “I'll lead 
one, and Cedarstar the other,’ he meowed. 
“Hollyflower, Archeye, Poolcloud, Ashheart, you come 
with me. And Deerleap and Amberleaf, with your 
apprentices. Raggedpelt, you too.” 

As Stonetooth named the cats they stepped out of 
the crowd and bunched together at one side. 


Raggedpelt brushed past Yellowpaw as he joined the 
patrol, not even acknowledging that she was there. 

“Did you guys have a fight?” Rowanpaw whispered 
to Yellowpaw. “Great StarClan, were you with him last 
night?” 

“Can we have a bit of quiet at the back?” 
Finchflight hissed, before Yellowpaw could reply. 
“Yellowpaw, join your patrol if you’re coming on this 
raid.” 

Yellowpaw shot a glare at her sister before padding 
off to stand with her mentor and the others. 
Meanwhile, Stonetooth named the cats for Cedarstar’s 
patrol, including Rowanpaw, Scorchpaw, and their 
mentors. Brightflower and Brackenfoot joined that 
patrol as well. 

“What about us?” Foxpaw demanded, pattering up 
with her brother a mouse-length behind. 

“Youre too young,” Stonetooth responded. “Rats 
are big enough to eat you.” 

“So we get left behind again,’ Wolfpaw growled, 
standing beside his sister and glaring as the patrols left. 

As she followed Stonetooth through the forest, 
Yellowpaw hung back until she could walk beside 


Raggedpelt, who was walking near the rear of the 
patrol. “Are you okay?” she meowed. “I’m sorry if I 
did the wrong thing last night.” 

Raggedpelt gave her a brief, cold glance. “I don’t 
want to talk about it,’ he mewed. “As far as I’m 
concerned, I have no father.” Not giving Yellowpaw 
the chance to reply, he bounded ahead until he was 
walking just behind Stonetooth. 

Yellowpaw looked sadly after him, her pelt pricking 
with feelings of guilt. Z was only trying to help! Giving 
her fur a shake, she padded on, trying to put the 
encounter with the Twolegplace cats out of her mind. 
I’m a ShadowClan apprentice, and right now my 
job is to catch prey! 

The breeze carried the scents of rat and crow-food 
to the patrols long before the Carrionplace came into 
sight. Yellowpaw hadn’t been this close since her first 
day as an apprentice, when Deerleap had shown her 
the territory. The heaps of Twoleg rubbish looked even 
more disgusting in daylight. Bulging black pelts were 
piled up, some of them with gaping holes that let the 
foul stuff inside spill out onto the ground. Mixed in with 
them were unfamiliar things made of wood, soft pelts 


in strange Twoleg colors, and more sharp-edged 
objects made of the shiny fence-stuff, all held together 
by the rotting crow-food. Beyond the fence the 
mounds stretched into the distance, more and more of 
them, as far as Yellowpaw could see. 

Stonetooth reached the fence and turned to pad 
alongside it. A few fox-lengths farther on he halted, 
and Yellowpaw saw that the ground had been scraped 
away so that there was room for a cat to wriggle 
underneath. 

“PI go first,’ Cedarstar meowed. “Once inside, 
we'll split up. Stonetooth, take your patrol that way”— 
he flicked his tait—‘‘and we’ll go this way. Let’s see 
who can catch the most!” 

Yellowpaw watched as Cedarstar squeezed his 
muscular body under the fence and rose to his paws on 
the far side. Brightflower followed with Rowanpaw 
close behind. Then Stonetooth began to lead his patrol 
through. When her turn came, Yellowpaw dived under 
the fence as quickly as she could, feeling it scrape 
along her back, then scrambled to her paws with claws 
extended in case a rat leaped out at her from the 
mounds. 


When all the cats were in place, Stonetooth 
gathered his patrol around him; a few fox-lengths 
away Cedarstar was doing the same. Yellowpaw stood 
beside her mentor, her paws sinking into the soggy 
debris on the ground. 

“Listen carefully,” the deputy meowed. “Especially 
you, apprentices—and Ashheart, this is your first rat 
raid, isn’t it?” The gray she-cat nodded, her blue eyes 
gleaming with anticipation. “Never tackle a rat alone,” 
the deputy warned. “Work in pairs and do not lose 
sight of your partner for a single heartbeat. Rats are 
vicious and cunning, and a rat bite can be very nasty, 
so do your best not to get bitten, and try to see to it that 
your partner doesn’t get bitten, either.” 

Like he needs to tell us that! Yellowpaw thought. 

Her heart began to beat faster, wondering if she 
would be partnered with Raggedpelt, but Stonetooth 
put the tabby tom with Nutpaw, and partnered 
Yellowpaw with Archeye. 

“Hollyflower and I will keep watch,’ Stonetooth 
finished. “If any cat is in trouble, we’ll be there to 
help.” 

“Lets show them!” Nutpaw whispered to 


Raggedpelt. “Lets catch the biggest rat in the 
Carrionplace!” 

Not if I can help it! Yellowpaw thought. 

She and Archeye padded cautiously alongside the 
nearest of the heaps. At first everything was quiet and 
still. A flicker of movement caught Yellowpaw’s eye, 
but it was only Raggedpelt and Nutpaw slipping 
between two of the other mounds. 

Archeye tapped Yellowpaw’s shoulder with his tail 
and angled his ears to a spot deeper within the 
Carrionplace, where a huge yellow Twoleg monster 
was crouching. “I think it’s asleep,” he murmured. 

Yellowpaw nodded. The monsters on the 
Thunderpath made such a racket that there would be 
plenty of time to get out of its way if it decided to 
wake up. Her whiskers twitched with impatience as 
she padded on. Come on, rats! Show yourselves! She 
caught a glimpse of a wedge-shaped head poking out 
of one of the bulging black pelts, but as she turned to 
face it, t was gone. 

“T think I saw one,” she told Archeye softly. 

Before she finished speaking, the head appeared 
again, lower down the mound—or perhaps it was a 


different rat. Yellowpaw’s belly clenched as she looked 
at its long nose and quivering whiskers, and the hostility 
in its bright, birdlike eyes. She began to distinguish 
sounds, too: rustling and squeaking that came from 
deep within the mound. 

This whole place is alive with rats! 

Yellowpaw bounded toward the rat, but it drew its 
head back into the pile, and her claws sank instead into 
something wet and squishy inside the black pelt. 

Oh, yuck! 

Then she spun around at the sound of louder 
squeaking behind her. A rat was poking its nose out 
from a gap in the mound; Yellowpaw froze as it 
ventured farther into the open. Its whiskers twitched 
as it sniffed the air, and its tiny eyes glittered with 
malice. 

“Get it!” Yellowpaw yowled to Archeye. 

She landed on the rat with one huge leap, but slightly 
mistimed her attack, so that her claws fastened near its 
tail. The rat let out a high-pitched squeal and twisted 
around, sharp teeth snapping at Yellowpaw’s neck. 
Yellowpaw reared back, but refused to loosen her grip. 

Before the rat could bite, Archeye flung himself on 


its shoulders, jaws parted to sink his teeth into its neck. 
The rat heaved up on its hind paws; Yellowpaw lost 
her hold as she staggered and fell to one side. Archeye 
was flung backward, and for a heartbeat the rat was 
free, diving for the shelter of the rubbish. 

“No!” Yellowpaw screeched. 

Leaping in pursuit, her paws slipped on slimy debris 
and she almost fell, but she scrambled after the rat and 
sank her claws into it again. This time she got a better 
grip on the back of its neck, and though it struggled it 
couldn’t shake her off. Archeye joined her, panting, 
and flung himself across the rat’s scrabbling back legs. 
As the rat twisted its head, vainly trying to bite 
Yellowpaw, she slashed her claws across its throat. 
Blood gushed out and the rat went limp. 

Shakily Yellowpaw rose to her paws. “Thank you, 
StarClan, for this prey,” she mewed. “And thank you 
that neither of us got bitten.” 

“You did well there,’ Archeye panted. “I thought 
we'd lost it for sure.” 

Yellowpaw looked down at the dead rat. She hadn’t 
quite realized until now how massive it was; maybe 
they had killed the biggest rat in Carrionplace, just like 


Nutpaw had hoped. “We both did it,’ she meowed. 

Paw steps sounded behind her, and Yellowpaw spun 
around, expecting to see another rat. She let out a sigh 
of relief when she saw it was Poolcloud and Ashheart, 
each of them carrying a rat. 

But they're not as big as ours! she thought 
proudly. 

The rest of the patrol was gathering. Yellowpaw 
picked up her rat and went to join them, with Archeye 
at her side. 

“Great StarClan, look at that!” Nutpaw exclaimed, 
his voice slightly envious. “I didn’t think there could be 
a rat as big as that.” He and Raggedpelt had caught a 
rat too, but Yellowpaw noticed that it was quite a lot 
smaller than hers. 

“It’s an amazing catch,’ Deerleap agreed; her gaze 
was warm as it rested on her apprentice. “Are you 
both okay?” 

“Not a scratch on either of us,” Archeye meowed. 
“And it’s Yellowpaw’s rat, really. I didn’t do much.” 

All the cats clustered around  Yellowpaw, 
congratulating her. 

“T’d have thought twice about tackling a rat that 


size,’ Stonetooth purred. “You’re showing real warrior 
skills, Yellowpaw.” 

Yellowpaw felt hot with pride and embarrassment. 
The Clan deputy thinks I did well! “Archeye 
helped,” she insisted. 

Then she noticed that Raggedpelt was hanging 
back. She felt as though a cloud had passed over the 
sun. He was the only cat who hadn’t said anything to 
her; he wasn’t even looking at her. 

“Whats going on?” Stonetooth glanced from 
Yellowpaw to Raggedpelt and back again. 
“Raggedpelt, it’s ungenerous not to praise Yellowpaw. 
That’s not how we do things in ShadowClan.” 

Raggedpelt looked at his paws. “Yeah, great catch, 
Yellowpaw,” he muttered. 

Stonetooth’s eyes narrowed, but he said nothing 
more to Raggedpelt. “It’s time we went back to 
camp,” he announced. “We’ve caught as much prey as 
we can carry. Let’s see if we can get there before 
Cedarstar’s patrol.” 

Picking up her rat by its scruff, Yellowpaw set off 
full of pride, but before she had gone many paw steps 
she began to wonder if she could make it back to 


camp. The rat weighed more than any piece of prey 
she had carried before. Soon she was staggering with 
fatigue, her neck aching, but the sense of achievement 
buzzed through her like a whole colony of bees, and 
kept her going. 

When she entered the camp she was aware of 
comments from the cats who had stayed behind, 
padding up to look as she and the rest of the patrol 
dropped their prey on the fresh-kill pile. For the first 
time she realized that Cedarstar’s patrol had followed 
them in; the Clan leader examined her rat, then turned 
to her, his eyes shining with approval. 

“Yellowpaw,” he mewed, “you’re turning into an 
excellent ShadowClan warrior.” 

“Th-thank you!” Yellowpaw stammered. 

The Clan leader dipped his head to her and padded 
off to his den. Yellowpaw followed him with her gaze. 
I can t believe the Clan leader said that to me! 

Then she noticed that Sagewhisker was standing a 
couple of fox-lengths away. She was looking 
thoughtful. Yellowpaw wondered what was on her 
mind, but after a moment the medicine cat turned 
away without speaking. 


Thank StarClan! Yellowpaw thought. She had been 
avoiding the medicine cat ever since Silverflame died; 
she still felt that Sagewhisker could have done more to 
help the sick elder. And the depth of Sagewhisker’s 
gaze made her feel uncomfortable. 

“Yellowpaw!” Her mother’s voice distracted 
Yellowpaw from thinking about the medicine cat. 
“Stonetooth says you made a great catch.” 

Yellowpaw ducked her head. “That’s my rat,” she 
mewed, pointing to it with her tail. 

Brackenfoot dropped his own prey onto the pile. 
Yellowpaw noticed that her father’s rat was almost as 
big as hers, but not quite. 

“Keep going like this, and you’ ll be the best hunter in 
ShadowClan,” he praised her, his eyes warm. 

Brightflower gave her a lick around the ears. 
“You’ve made us so proud.” 

Yellowpaw gazed from one of her parents to the 
other, and felt as if her heart would burst with 
happiness. 


“Are we joining a patrol today?” Yellowpaw asked 
Deerleap. 
Two moons had passed since the raid on the 


Carrionplace, and the air was soft and mild, full of the 
scents of newleaf. Spikes of fresh green showed at the 
tips of the pine branches, ferns were uncoiling in the 
midst of clumps of dead bracken, and birdsong 
promised prey in the moons to come. Yellowpaw 
heaved a happy sigh. The forest is so beautiful! 

“Not today,” Deerleap replied. 

In the last moon she hadn’t been calling Yellowpaw 
quite so early in the morning; today the rays of the 
morning sun were already slanting into the camp, 
driving off the dawn chill. She seems to be slowing 
down, Yellowpaw thought, realizing with a pang that 
her mentor was growing old. 

“So what are we going to do?” she asked. 

“There’s one more task before you can begin your 
final warrior assessments,” Deerleap told her. “You 
have to travel to the Moonstone.” 

“Yes!” Yellowpaw was so excited that she pushed 
off with all four paws and gave an enormous leap into 
the air. Rowanpaw and Nutpaw had already made 
their apprentice journeys to the Moonstone, and 
Yellowpaw had begun to fear that her turn would 
never come. She landed awkwardly from her leap, 


feeling a hot flush of embarrassment. Deerleap will 
think I’m behaving like a kit. “When do we leave?” 
she mewed. 

“Right away,” her mentor announced. “Come with 
me. We need to visit Sagewhisker for traveling herbs.” 

“What are they?” Yellowpaw asked as they padded 
toward the medicine cat’s den. 

“Sorrel, daisy, chamomile, and burnet.” Deerleap 
listed each herb with a twitch of her tail. “They’ll give 
you strength and stop you from feelmg hungry on the 
way. There won’t be time to hunt.” 

When they slipped between the boulders into 
Sagewhisker’s den, the medicine cat was mixing herbs 
together with delicate motions of one forepaw. “Here 
you are,” she meowed, dividing the mixture into two 
small heaps. “Yellowpaw, the taste is bitter, but it won’t 
last long.” 

Copying Deerleap, Yellowpaw licked up the herbs, 
chewed, and swallowed. The taste was just as bitter as 
Sagewhisker had warned her it would be, and she 
couldn’t help making a face. 

“Listen carefully to what StarClan tells you in your 
dreams,” Sagewhisker prompted. “This could be the 


moment when you find out your destiny.” 

“T already know my destiny,’ Yellowpaw mewed. 
“It’s to be a great ShadowClan warrior!” 

Sagewhisker made no comment, just looked at 
Yellowpaw for a moment longer before she nodded. 
“Have a safe journey, both of you. May StarClan light 
your path.” 


Deerleap walked through the forest as far as the 
Thunderpath, then turned to follow it toward the edge 
of the territory. Yellowpaw wrinkled her nose as the 
acrid stink of monsters swamped the fresh smells of 
the forest. The scent of WindClan cats wafted across 
the Thunderpath from their territory on the far side. 

I wonder what those prey-stealers are up to 
now? At least they havent dared to bother us 
again. 

Yellowpaw trotted beside Deerleap as they crossed 
the ShadowClan border. They soon came to a smaller 
Thunderpath branching off the main one. 

“Do we have to cross this?” she asked her mentor, 
trying to hide her nervousness. There didn’t seem to be 
a tunnel underneath like the one they used to get to 
Gatherings. 


Deerleap nodded. “It seems scary when it’s your 
first time, but you’ll be fine as long as you remember 

“Look, listen, and scent!” Yellowpaw interrupted, 
curling her tail up. 

“Right.” Deerleap let out a small mrrow of 
amusement. “You can look for monsters just like you 
look for prey.” 

A distant buzzing sound began as she spoke, 
growing quickly to a roar, and a glittering red monster 
swept past them and joined the main Thunderpath. 
Yellowpaw gagged at the stench that rolled off it in 
waves. 

“Now,” Deerleap mewed when it had gone, “these 
are the rules for crossing a Thunderpath. Look both 
ways. Can you see a monster? Listen. Can you hear 
one? Scent. Is the smell stronger than usual? If the 
answer to all those questions is no, then it’s safe to 
cross.” 

“I see,” Yellowpaw murmured, still feeling nervous. 

“Right. So tell us when to go.” 

Yellowpaw stared at her. Me? What if I get us 
both killed? But Deerleap just angled her ears toward 


the Thunderpath, clearly waiting. 

Standing near the edge of the hard black surface, 
Yellowpaw worked her claws into the grassy verge. 
She looked carefully in both directions, noting that the 
black strip was empty. The only sounds she could hear 
were the breeze in the branches and the twittering of 
birds. The tang of the red monster had died away. 

“Okay ... I think,” she mewed. 

“Then go!” 

Yellowpaw bounded forward with Deerleap at her 
side, wincing as her paws landed on the harsh surface 
of the Thunderpath. Heartbeats later they had reached 
the safety of a clump of bushes on the other side. 
Another monster growled its way past as she stood 
there quivering and trying to get her breath. 

“We made it.” Deerleap gave her a nod. “One more 
thing to remember—once you decide it’s safe, run as 
fast as you can and don’t look back.” 

Yellowpaw was relieved when they left the 
Thunderpath behind. Beyond it, the land began to rise 
into moors that reminded her of WindClan territory, 
covered with the same short, tough grass. But the 
WindClan scents were fading behind them. With a 


tingle of excitement in her paws, Yellowpaw realized 
she was heading into unknown territory, where no Clan 
cats lived. She felt exposed in the open spaces, without 
the comforting shelter of pine branches. 

Rabbits scampered temptingly across their path, and 
all Yellowpaw’s instincts yowled at her to give chase. 
But she knew Deerleap would be annoyed if she broke 
off their journey to hunt, and the traveling herbs were 
working so she didn’t feel hungry. This is your lucky 
day, rabbits, she thought. 

Over to one side, beyond the big Thunderpath, she 
spotted a cluster of Twoleg dens. 

‘Do we have to go there?” she meowed, 
remembering what had happened when she went to 
the Twolegplace with Raggedpett. 

Deerleap shook her head. “We’re heading for those 
hills,’ she replied, pointing with her tail. “Highstones, 
where the Moonstone is waiting for us.” 

Looking ahead, Yellowpaw saw the ground slope 
upward to a row of crags outlined against the sky. 
They looked like jagged teeth pushing out of the 
ground. As the cats climbed higher, the grass 
underpaw gave way to bare soil strewn with stones, 


and the slope grew steeper. 

My legs have never ached like this before, 
Yellowpaw complained silently as she toiled upward. 
What’s wrong with me? 

As if her mentor had picked up her thoughts, 
Deerleap halted. “Let’s rest for a bit.” 

She flopped down on a flat stone and Yellowpaw 
settled beside her, enjoying the sensation of sun- 
warmed rock on her pads and pelt. Ahead of them the 
sun was going down, washing the crags with an orange 
glow. 

‘I’m very proud of you, Yellowpaw,’ Deerleap 
meowed after a while. 

Yellowpaw pricked her ears in surprise; Deerleap 
hardly ever doled out praise. 

“The moons are passing,” Deerleap went on, “and 
soon it will be my time to join the elders. You will be 
my last apprentice, and I know that you will become a 
great warrior.” 

Yellowpaw rested her muzzle on the she-cat’s 
shoulder. “You’ve been a fantastic mentor,’ she 
murmured. “T won’t let you down, I promise.” 


Darkness had fallen and Silverpelt was glittering 


across the sky before Deerleap rose to her paws. 
“Come,” she meowed. “It’s time.” 

The moon was still low in the sky and the rocks cast 
long shadows as Yellowpaw followed Deerleap up the 
last steep slope toward the crags. As they drew closer, 
she spotted a dark hole underneath a rough archway in 
the rock. 

“Is that where we’re going?” 

Deerleap nodded. “That’s Mothermouth. It leads to 
the Moonstone.” 

A scramble up the final slope, with stones shifting 
under her paws, brought Yellowpaw to the threshold of 
Mothermouth. A tunnel led deep into the rock; it was 
so dark that Yellowpaw couldn’t make out anything 
beyond the first fox-length. She felt her heart begin to 
beat faster. 

“Follow me,” Deerleap instructed. “You won’t see 
anything, but you’ll be able to pick up my scent. 
There’s nothing to be afraid of. I have walked this path 
many times.” She stepped forward into the tunnel and 
vanished from Yellowpaw’s sight. 

Taking a deep breath, Yellowpaw plunged in after 
her. The light from the tunnel entrance died away 


behind her as she padded in her mentor’s paw steps, 
and she guided herself by her whiskers brushing the 
rock walls, and by the thin tendril of Deerleap’s scent. 
The rock beneath her paws was smooth and cold, and 
the damp air soaked into her pelt and reached deep 
inside her until she thought she would never be warm 
again. The tunnel sloped downward, and Yellowpaw 
tried not to think of the massive weight of rock above 
her head. It was too easy to imagine it collapsing on 
top of her, crushing her to nothing. 

Then her nose twitched as she felt a fresher scent 
and the faint movement of air against her whiskers. 
Tasting the air, she picked up a faint tang of grass and 
rabbits. She realized that she had stepped out into a 
larger space. 

“This is the cave of the Moonstone, 
meowed. 

“What do we do now?” 

“We wait.” 

Yellowpaw shivered in the vast darkness. Above her 
head she could make out a single glimmering warrior 
of StarClan; she realized there must be a hole in the 
roof of the cave. But the light was too faint to reach so 


393 


Deerleap 


far into the depths of the earth. 

Then, between one heartbeat and the next, a cold, 
white light flooded down, revealing walls of rock 
soaring upward for many fox-lengths. Yellowpaw 
couldn’t hold back a squeal of surprise. In the middle 
of the cave was a huge rock, many tail-lengths high. 
The moon was shining through the gap in the roof, 
making the rock glitter as if all of StarClan was 
gathered inside it. 

“That’s the Moonstone?” she whispered. 

Deerleap was a small, dark shape outlined against 
the light. She nodded. “Lie down and touch the stone 
with your muzzle,” she mewed. 

Yellowpaw settled herself and stretched out her 
neck to touch her nose to the rough surface of the 
Moonstone, closing her eyes against the dazzling light. 

Instantly claws of cold gripped her. Her lids were 
closed, but still she saw brilliant starlight whirling 
around her as she was swept away. She was 
surrounded by cats, though she couldn’t see any of 
their faces. Suddenly a voice echoed in her ears: 
“From this moment on, you will be known as 
Yellowfang.” 


My warrior name! But Yellowpaw’s delight lasted 
no more than a single heartbeat. Pain surged through 
her belly, wave after wave of agony, and she realized 
that she was giving birth to kits. For a brief moment 
the whirling journey ceased; Yellowpaw curled herself 
around a throng of tiny bodies, and felt the joy of letting 
them suckle at her belly. 

Then she was snatched away again. Stars fled past 
her, and she was overwhelmed by a feeling of loss and 
anger. More fury than she had ever known made her 
vision blur; she tried to screech out her desolation, but 
she couldn’t make a sound. 

With a bump she found herself in a green glade, with 
sunlight filtering through the leaves. Home! she thought 
gratefully, but there were no scents she recognized. 
The landscape flickered around her, showing her a 
stream trickling through thick moss, a stretch of flat 
rocks with crevices between them and a strong prey- 
scent all around, a narrow ravine, the gnarled roots of 
an oak tree, the glitter of sunlight on a wide stretch of 
water. The torrent of images made Yellowpaw feel 
sick; she tried to break free, but she felt like a 
drowning kit, helpless to escape from the dream that 


had her in its grip. 

Suddenly, with a jolt that made Yellowpaw feel that 
she had been hurled off the top of the big ash tree, the 
images stopped, leaving her in darkness. Opening her 
eyes, Yellowpaw saw that she was still in the cave of 
the Moonstone, lying on the floor in the shimmering 
white light. 

Deerleap stood at her side, her claws fastened in 
Yellowpaw’s shoulder; Yellowpaw realized her mentor 
must have dragged her away from the stone. 

“Wake up, Yellowpaw!” she was calling. 

“I’m up.” Yellowpaw staggered to her paws, 
dazed and exhausted. She tried to remember her 
dream, but it was all a blur of pain, anguish, and 
confusion. The details were slipping away from her 
like water through her paws. 

“Come. We have to leave,” Deerleap ordered. 

Yellowpaw blinked at her mentor. Did I do 
something wrong? “It was ... so weird,” she began. 
“I felt—” 

“There’s no need to talk about it,’ Deerleap 
interrupted. “Follow me quickly.” 

She whisked into the mouth of the tunnel and 


Yellowpaw stumbled after her, emerging thankfully into 
the cold night air. She felt so exhausted that she didn’t 
think her paws would carry her all the way back to 
camp. 

“We’ll go down the hill a little way,’ Deerleap 
meowed, sounding more like herself. “Then we’ll rest 
and hunt before we go home.” As she led the way 
across the stony slope, she added, “You must never tell 
any cat what you saw in your dreams.” 

I dont want to! Something struck Yellowpaw. “Did 
... did you see what I dreamed?” 

Deerleap didn’t look at her. “Only medicine cats 
share what StarClan tells them. Whatever you have 
seen of your future, use that knowledge wisely, 
Yellowpaw.” 

Disappointment clung to Yellowpaw like mist on her 
fur, and she felt the first stirrings of fear. At least 1 
know I’m going to be a warrior, right? And after 
that ... She strained her memory but the images from 
her dream were tumbled together in a blaze of 
starlight. All she knew was that something was wrong; 
she didn’t feel excited and joyous the way she thought 
she would after visiting the Moonstone. 


Yellowpaw looked up at the stars, but they seemed 
cold and remote. Oh, StarClan, what is going to 
happen to me? 





CHAPTER 9 
w& 


“ 
“Yellowpaw, from this time on, you shall be known as 
Yellowfang. StarClan honors your courage and your 
intelligence, and we welcome you as a warrior of 
ShadowClan.” 

Trying to keep her poise, even though she was 
bursting with excitement, Yellowfang bent her head 
and felt Cedarstar rest his muzzle on it. She licked her 
leader’s shoulder and took a pace back. 

“Yellowfang! Nutwhisker! Rowanberry!” 
ShadowClan yowled the names of the newly made 
warriors. 

Beside Yellowfang, her brother and sister looked as 
thrilled as she felt, their eyes shining and their tails 
straight up in the air. 

“Warriors at last!” Nutwhisker chirped. “Sometimes 
I thought we’d never make it!” 

“We’re going to be the best warriors ShadowClan 
has ever seen,” Rowanberry added. 

A warm, prey-laden breeze drifted across the camp, 
and the hot sun of greenleaf shone down, warming 


Yellowfang’s pelt. Not a cloud could be seen in the 
blue sky. What else could I wish for? Yellowfang 
asked herself. This is a perfect day. 

At the front of the cats, Brightflower and 
Brackenfoot were standing close together, their tails 
entwined as they beamed proudly at the new warriors. 
Deerleap gave Yellowfang a nod of warm approval. 

Nearby, Foxpaw and Wolfpaw had watched the 
ceremony with undisguised envy. “We’ll be warriors 
soon,” Foxpaw announced as the yowls of greeting 
died away. 

Yellowfang ignored her. “Warrior or not, she'll still 
be a pain in the tail’ she murmured to Rowanberry, 
who gave a fervent nod of agreement. 

Scorchwind, who had received his warrior name a 
moon before, shouldered his way through the crowd 
and gave all three new warriors a condescending nod. 
“Congratulations,” he meowed. “If you need any tips 
on how warriors behave, just ask.” 

“We’ll do that,’ Yellowfang responded. “I’m sure 
the senior warriors will give us loads of advice.” 

Scorchwind twitched his tail and padded to where 
his brother, Raggedpelt, was standing. Yellowfang felt 


a familiar stab of disappomtment that Raggedpelt 
wasn’t even looking at her. He's ashamed because 1 
was there when his father rejected him. I wish 1 
could tell him that all I feel is anger toward that 
stupid kittypet! Hal ought to be proud to have a 
warrior for his son! 

But Yellowfang couldn’t think of a way to start that 
conversation with Raggedpelt. Everything she wanted 
to tell him would have to remain unsaid. 

“Yellowfang?” 

Starting at the sound of Sagewhisker’s voice behind 
her, Yellowfang spun around. 

“Congratulations,” the medicine cat meowed. “I 
hear your hunting assessment was especially good.” 

Yellowfang dipped her head. Sagewhisker still 
wasn’t her favorite cat, but she knew that she had to 
get past Silverflame’s death and acknowledge 
Sagewhisker’s status within the Clan. 

“Thanks,” she muttered. “I guess I was lucky.” 

“Did you dream of serving your Clan as a warrior 
when you went to the Moonstone with Deerleap?” the 
medicine cat probed unexpectedly. 

For a heartbeat, Yellowfang didn’t know what to 


say. There was no way she was going to tell 
Sagewhisker what had happened. “I ... uh ... don’t 
really remember what the dream was,’ she 
stammered. 

“Really?” Sagewhisker’s gaze was gentle but 
insistent. “It’s a significant moment, your first 
Moonstone dream.” 

Why cant she leave it alone? “If I don’t 
remember, it can’t be that important.” Turning her 
back on Sagewhisker, Yellowfang joined her littermates 
beside the fresh-kill pile, where the Clan was getting 
ready to celebrate the newly made warriors with a 
feast. 

But Yellowfang couldn’t resist glancing back over 
her shoulder. Sagewhisker was still regarding her with 
that persistent look, and Yellowfang would have given 
all her share of the fresh-kill to know what she was 
thinking. 


Yellowfang padded silently across the thick layer of 
pine needles as she followed Hollyflower, Newtspeck, 
and Toadskip. The border patrol had left the edge of 
the Thunderpath and struck out toward the 
Twolegplace; Yellowfang could make out the walls 


several fox-lengths away through the trees. Her pads 
tingled with the unwelcome memory of the night she 
and Raggedpelt had visited the Twolegplace in search 
of Raggedpelt’s father. J dont want to go near the 
place ever again! 

The patrol waited while Hollyflower renewed a 
scent marker, then padded on with Newtspeck in the 
lead. A few heartbeats later the warrior halted, her 
head raised and her jaws parted. “What’s that smell?” 
she muttered. 

Veering away from the border, she bounded toward 
a sprawling clump of brambles at the foot of a pine 
tree. Yellowfang followed more slowly with the rest of 
the patrol. Before she had taken more than a couple of 
paw steps, she picked up the new scent, too: squirrel, 
but with a sweetish, rotting tang that made her neck 
fur bristle. 

“Over here!” Newtspeck called. 

Yellowfang wriggled beside Newtspeck as the 
black-and-ginger she-cat peered into the thicket. A 
half-eaten squirrel lay under the thorns, its gray fur 
clumped and sticky with blood. Flies crawled over its 
torn flesh and buzzed upward in a swarm as 


Newtspeck stretched out her neck and gave the crow- 
food a sniff. 

“That’s disgusting!” Toadskip exclaimed. 

Newtspeck drew back, passing her tongue over her 
lips as if she was trying to get rid of a foul taste. 
“Some cat has been stealing prey!” she announced, 
her voice quivering with anger. 

Yellowfang took a careful sniff; beneath the stink of 
rotting crow-food she detected other scents lingering 
on the cold, ripped fur. Black stone underpaw, greasy 
puddles with the bitter tang of monsters, and an 
underlying hint of the slop that kittypets eat ... 
“The cat that killed this squirrel came from 
Twolegplace!” she hissed. 

Toadskip gave a snort of disbelief. “Kittypets don’t 
hunt!” 

“I think Yellowfang’s right,’ Hollyflower responded. 
“There’s Twolegplace scent here ... and besides, what 
warrior leaves prey half-eaten like this?” 

“We can’t let them get away with it,’ Toadskip 
snarled. 

“We won’t.” Hollyflower gathered her patrol with a 
flick of her tail and led them through the trees until 


they crossed their own border and stood beneath the 
looming walls of the Twolegplace. “Split up,’ she 
ordered. “See if you can find the place where the 
kittypet came into the forest.” 

Yellowfang headed for a high fence made of 
interwoven strips of wood. Twoleg dens lay on the 
other side of it. She crept along the bottom of the 
barrier, jaws parted, then halted as she picked up the 
mingled scent of two or three kittypets. They matched 
up exactly with the scents on the half-eaten squirrel. 
“T’ve found it!” she called out. 

Hollyflower came bounding up with the other 
warriors behind her, and sniffed at the place 
Yellowfang indicated. “Not much doubt about that,” 
she murmured, with a look of distaste. “Toadskip, climb 
the fence and see what’s on the other side.” 

The tabby tom leaped upward, digging his claws into 
the wood until he had scrambled to the top. For a 
couple of heartbeats he gazed down on the other side, 
then turned back with a shrug. “Nothing,” he reported. 
“Just Twoleg grass and plants. No sign of any cats.” 

“That’s because they only come out at night,” 
Yellowfang meowed. 


Her Clanmates gazed at her with surprise. 

“How do you know that?” Newtspeck prompted. 

“Oh ... uh ... one of the elders told me,” 
Yellowfang mumbled. To her relief, no cat questioned 
her further. 

“So what do we do now?” Toadskip asked, hopping 
down onto the grass beside the others. 

Hollyflower thought for a moment. “Toadskip, you 
and Newtspeck had better bury that squirrel,’ she 
ordered. “And then finish the patrol. Yellowfang, you 
come back to camp with me. Cedarstar will want to 
know about this.” 


Moonlight shone down into the camp as the warriors 
of ShadowClan gathered in the clearing. Cedarstar had 
been as outraged as Yellowfang had expected when 
Hollyflower reported that kittypets had been killing 
prey on ShadowClan territory. 

“PI lead two patrols out there tonight,’ he had 
decided. “We’ll show those kittypets that they don’t 
mess with ShadowClan.” 

Yellowfang’s paws tingled as she followed her Clan 
leader through the brambles. She felt proud that 
Cedarstar had chosen her for one of the patrols, but at 


the same time her belly was churning with 
nervousness. 

What if one of the kittypets recognizes me? 

Waiting for her turn to pass through the entrance, 
she tried to catch Raggedpelt’s eye. She knew he must 
be feeling just as nervous. 

What if it was Hal who killed the squirrel? 

But Raggedpelt wouldn’t look at her, deliberately 
turning his back and talking to Nutwhisker. 

Yellowfang jumped as she felt a prod in her side. 
“Come on, move your paws,” Scorchwind hissed. “Are 
you waiting for daylight?” 

Yellowfang realized that she was blocking the gap. 
“Sorry,” she muttered, plunging into the thorns and 
trying to put Raggedpelt out of her mind. 

A cold breeze whispered through the pine needles as 
the warriors plunged into the trees. Black shadows 
shifted over the ground from the movement of the 
branches, and silver flakes of moonlight dappled the 
cats’ fur. With Yellowfang in Cedarstar’s patrol were 
Rowanberry, Deerleap, and Raggedpelt. Just behind 
them Stonetooth led the second patrol: Scorchwind, 
Nutwhisker, Newtspeck, and Crowtail. 


When the harsh lights of the Twolegplace appeared 
through the trees, Cedarstar halted. All the warriors 
gathered around him and he spoke in a low voice. “The 
two patrols will split up and watch for the kittypets 
from opposite sides,’ he mewed. “All of you take 
cover, and don’t move until I give the signal. Maybe 
we can finish this without a fight.” 

“What signal?” Stonetooth asked. 

“PIL kink my tail like this,’ Cedarstar replied, 
demonstrating. He dug his claws into the ground. “You 
are ShadowClan warriors and I trust you. Once the 
fighting starts, make sure that those kittypets don’t 
know what hit them.” 

Stonetooth gave a curt nod and led his patrol away. 
Cedarstar took his cats in the opposite direction, 
toward the fence where Yellowfang had scented the 
intruders. There wasn’t much undergrowth beneath 
the pine trees, but they found shelter behind the 
brambles where Newtspeck had discovered the 
squirrel. 

Yellowfang crouched among the thorns with 
Deerleap on one side of her and Raggedpelt on the 
other, their pelts brushing. Yellowfang was acutely 


aware of him, embarrassed to be so close when he 
refused to be her friend anymore. “Won’t the kittypets 
scent so many of us?” she whispered. “If they know 
we’re here, they won’t come out.” 

Deerleap gave a disdainful sniff. “Most kittypets 
couldn’t scent a fox if it was right in front of them.” 

Yellowfang gave a small mrrow of amusement. “I 
guess they never had a mentor to tell them to look, 
listen, and scent.” 

“Quiet there!” Cedarstar’s low voice came from 
somewhere close by. 

Tucking her paws underneath her, Yellowfang 
settled down. As she gazed along the Twoleg fence 
she spotted small movements among the grass that told 
her where Stonetooth’s patrol was hiding. There was 
no sign of any kittypets, and the only scents 
Yellowfang could pick up when she tasted the air were 
faint and stale. 

The night dragged on and nothing happened. 
Yellowfang grew cold and cramped; she longed to get 
up and stretch her legs, but she knew how angry 
Cedarstar would be if she so much as twitched a 
whisker. Cold was gripping her pelt by the time she 


heard Cedarstar hiss, “Look! Up there!” 

Squinting through the brambles, Yellowfang spotted 
two cats slinking over the fence from the Twolegplace. 
For a moment they stood outlined against the sky. A 
heartbeat later they leaped down to the ground and she 
was able to see them more clearly. The scrawny she- 
cat with the untidy russet pelt was horribly familiar. 

Red! 

Yellowfang’s belly lurched with dismay. The last 
thing she wanted was for her Clanmates to find out 
about the night she and Raggedpelt had visited the 
Twolegplace. Will Red say anything? she wondered. 

As the two kittypets hesitated beside the fence, 
Cedarstar leaped out of the shelter of the brambles and 
strode toward them. “What are you doing here?” he 
demanded. “The forest is our place. Go back to your 
Twolegs.” 

Red faced the ShadowClan leader without a trace 
of fear. Yellowfang had to admire her courage as the 
kittypet glared at Cedarstar, who was much bigger 
than she was, his muscles rippling beneath his pelt. 

“You can’t stop us from coming here!” Red 
declared. “We don’t live by your rules.” 


“We can make you stop if we want to,” Cedarstar 
retorted. 

The second cat, an older tabby tom who Yellowfang 
didn’t recognize, took a pace forward to stand at Red’s 
shoulder. ‘T’d like to see you try,” he hissed. “You wild 
cats think you’re so great! Lay one claw on us and I’ll 
wipe that smug look off your face.” 

Cedarstar didn’t respond in words. Instead he raised 
his tail and kinked it in the signal for battle. Instantly 
the rest of the warriors rose out of the shadows with 
angry yowls. They surrounded the kittypets, a barrier 
of furious cats with teeth bared and claws at the ready. 
Raggedpelt and Nutwhisker stood shoulder-to-shoulder, 
their lips drawn back in snarls of defiance. 
Rowanberry was flexing her claws as if she couldn’t 
wait to sink them into a kittypet. 

Yellowfang saw a look of sheer astonishment cross 
the faces of Red and the tabby. But neither of them 
turned to flee. The tabby tom let out a screech and 
three more cats jumped over the fence and landed on 
the ground beside the kittypets. Yellowfang winced as 
she recognized the skinny gray tom. 

Boulders here now! This just gets worse and 


worse ... 

Cedarstar launched himself at Red, and the rest of 
the warriors leaped into battle behind their leader. 
Yellowfang hung back, reluctant to tangle with a cat 
who might recognize her. She watched at the edge of 
the battle as Red shoved Cedarstar off balance, 
sending him stumbling against a tree stump. The Clan 
leader gathered himself and leaped at Red again; the 
russet she-cat sprang away, only to trip over a tangle 
of tree roots and fall on one side. Cedarstar gave her a 
swipe over her haunches before spinning around and 
hurling himself back into the thick of the fight. 

Yellowfang stared at Red, who was struggling to 
wrench one forepaw clear of the roots. Could 1 
possibly talk to her? She took a hesitant step toward 
Red, feeling a stab of pain shoot through her paw, then 
halted as Deerleap gave her a shove. “Attack!” the old 
cat snarled. “This is what I trained you for!” 

Hot shame flooded through Yellowfang. Picking out 
a plump ginger tom she had never seen before, she 
aimed a blow at his shoulder, knocking him off balance. 
The tom struggled to get to his paws, but before 
Yellowfang could follow up her first blow, Red, free of 


the roots now, slipped between them, spinning around 
to face Yellowfang with fury in her eyes. 

The she-cat aimed a blow at Yellowfang, claws 
unsheathed to rake across her ear. Suddenly she 
stopped, her eyes open wide. “It’s you!” she gasped. 

Newtspeck, battling the big tabby tom, heard Red’s 
exclamation and glanced over her shoulder at 
Yellowfang. “What does she mean?” she demanded. 

Yellowfang couldn’t think of any reply. Taking 
advantage of Newtspeck’s brief distraction, the tabby 
tom she’d been fighting knocked her over and landed 
on top of her, putting an end to any more questions. 

A heartbeat later Raggedpelt charged into the tangle 
of cats. “Don’t say a word!” he snarled into Red’s ear. 

Red looked startled. “About what?” 

“You know very well what—” 

Raggedpelt was interrupted as Scorchwind dived for 
Red, aiming a blow at her shoulder. Red whipped 
around and raced for the fence. 

“There’s no need to kill!” Stonetooth’s voice rang 
out above the yowls of fighting cats. “These are 
kittypets! We’ll soon send them wailing back to their 
Twolegs!” 


“Pretty tough kittypets,’ Yellowfang muttered to 
herself. 

She turned to see Rowanberry battling Boulder. Her 
sister’s eyes flashed with the exhilaration of the fight 
as she leaped from side to side to confuse her 
opponent, her blows landing with precision. Slowly but 
inexorably she was driving the skinny gray tom back 
toward the fence. Blood trickled down his face from a 
torn ear. 

Yellowfang intercepted a black-and-white tom, who 
was racing to help Boulder, by rearing up onto her hind 
legs and buffeting his ears with her forepaws. The 
black-and-white cat crumpled to the ground. But 
though Yellowfang relished the strength of her muscles 
and the certamty of her swiping paws, she couldn’t 
help wincing with every blow she landed. She stung all 
over as if her pelt had been ripped off. 

I have to toughen up, she thought. I’m fighting 
for my Clan! 

She was forcing the tom back against the fence 
when she suddenly felt pressure on her throat, as if 
something was crushing her windpipe. Her attack 
faltered as she struggled to breathe. The tom launched 


himself at her again; through swirling vision Yellowfang 
saw that Nutwhisker had flung himself between them, 
giving her a moment’s respite. 

Her breath rasping in her throat, Yellowfang turned 
to see the big tabby holding Deerleap down with one 
paw planted on her neck. Yellowfang staggered across 
to them, swiping her claws down the tabby’s flank. He 
rolled over and scrambled away. 

“Thanks, Yellowfang,’ Deerleap gasped, struggling 
to her paws. “But I was fine, really. I was just going to 
throw him into the brambles.” 

And hedgehogs might fly, Yellowfang thought, 
though she would never have spoken the words aloud. 
The pressure on her throat had vanished and she could 
breathe freely again, her chest heaving as she sucked 
air into her lungs. Whats happening to me? 

A triumphant yowl from Cedarstar distracted her. 
“That’s right! Get out, and don’t come back!” 

Yellowfang saw the kittypets frantically clawing 
their way up the fence and vanishing over the other 
side. None of them looked badly injured, and glancing 
around at her Clanmates Yellowfang realized that they 
weren’t seriously wounded either. 


“Thank StarClan!” she breathed. 

She felt so shaky that her legs would hardly hold her 
up, and one of her paws hurt so much that she could 
scarcely put it to the ground, though she couldn’t 
remember when it had been injured. She spotted 
Raggedpelt a tail-length away, and this time she 
managed to meet his gaze. “Red nearly gave us 
away,” she mewed. “It was so close!” 

“Too close,’ Raggedpelt growled. Without saying 
more, he turned away and stalked off in the direction 
of the camp. 

Yellowfang tried to follow, but her head spun with 
pain and she staggered. 

“What’s wrong?” Deerleap asked, stretching out her 
neck to give Yellowfang a concerned sniff. 

“I'm okay,” Yellowfang stammered, trying to 
hide her weakness. Exhaustion wrapped around her 
like a heavy black cloud. 

“Is something the matter?” Cedarstar padded across 
to Yellowfang’s side, concern in his eyes. “Yellowfang, 
are you hurt?” 

“I don’t know ...” 

Deerleap sniffed Yellowfang all over and stood back 


with a puzzled frown. “Just a scratch or two ... there 
must be something wrong that we can’t see. Come on, 
Yellowfang, lean on my shoulder. We’ ll get you back to 
camp and let Sagewhisker take a look at you.” 


Yellowfang and Deerleap were the last cats to 
struggle back into the camp. The sky was growing pale 
and the stars were fading. When Yellowfang and her 
former mentor emerged from the tunnel, the rest of the 
Clan was gathered around the returned patrols in an 
excited huddle. 

“And then I slashed him over the ear like this,” 
Nutwhisker was meowing. “You should have heard 
him screech!” 

Skirting the edge of the group, Yellowfang limped to 
Sagewhisker’s den, thankful for Deerleap’s shoulder 
supporting her. She slipped between the boulders that 
formed the entrance to the den, and sank down onto 
the moss inside. 

Sagewhisker looked up from counting poppy seeds. 
“Yellowfang? Were you hurt in the battle?” 

“T’m not sure,” Deerleap meowed. “I didn’t see her 
take any particularly bad blows, and I can’t find any 
injuries on her, but she’s exhausted and she can hardly 


walk. Something isn’t right.” 

“Hmm ...” Sagewhisker glanced from Deerleap to 
Yellowfang and back again. “Okay, Deerleap, you can 
leave her with me. I’ll give her a thorough checkup.” 

Yellowfang looked up nervously as Sagewhisker 
padded over to her. The medicine cat didn’t ask her 
any questions, just sniffed her all over, parting her fur 
here and there with gentle paws. Finally she sat down 
beside Yellowfang and wrapped her tail neatly around 
her forepaws. 

“There’s hardly a scratch on you, but you already 
know that, don’t you?” 

Yellowfang stared at her, baffled. “I must be 
wounded! I hurt all over.” 

Sagewhisker paused for a moment before replying. 
“Which part of you hurts the most?” 

“This paw.” Yellowfang stretched out a forepaw. “T 
can hardly put any weight on it.” 

“Did any other cat hurt her paw?” 

Yellowfang tried to remember the chaos of the 
battle. “Well, Red ... I mean, one of the kittypets got 
her paw stuck under a root. But that didn’t have 
anything to do with me.” 


Sagewhisker didn’t comment. “And what’s the next 
worst pain?” 

“My ear.” Yellowfang flicked it, wincing. “It feels 
like some cat tore it off.” 

“No, it’s still there, quite untouched,” Sagewhisker 
assured her. “Did you see any cat with an injured 
ear?” 

Yellowfang nodded, remembering Rowanberry’s 
fight with Boulder and the blood trickling down his 
face. 

“What about a flank injury?” the medicine cat 
persisted. 

“How would I know?” Yellowfang retorted, irritable 
because Sagewhisker’s questions were starting to 
make her feel uncomfortable. “I was in the battle, you 
know, not watching from up in a tree.” When 
Sagewhisker didn’t respond, she added uncertainly, 
“Maybe Cedarstar ... he fell against a tree stump.” 

“PI have to see him about that,’ Sagewhisker 
meowed. 

“But what about me?” Yellowfang protested. 
“Aren’t you going to treat my injuries?” 

Sagewhisker gazed at her from calm green eyes. 


‘Tve already told you, Yellowfang, you hardly have a 
scratch on you. You fought well and escaped without 
injury. What you are feeling is the injuries of the other 
cats.” 

“What do you mean?” Yellowfang mewed shakily. 
“How can that happen?” 

“I don’t know,” Sagewhisker admitted. “This isn’t 
the first time, though, is it?” 

Yellowfang thought back to the times she had been 
in pain. When I fought that huge WindClan tom, I 
felt like I was seriously injured, but I wasnt. And 
there was the pain I felt when Silverflame was 
dying ... and the time when my belly ached when 
Nutkit ate the crow-food. Great StarClan, has this 
been happening since I was a kit? 

“I guess not,” Yellowfang mewed quietly. “But ... 
doesn’t every cat feel the same? It’s not hard to see 
an injury and imagine how it feels!” 

“This isn’t your imagination,” Sagewhisker told her. 
“StarClan must have given you these feelings for a 
reason, and we have to find out what it is.” 

“No!” Yellowfang forced herself to her paws, 
ignoring painful muscles that shrieked in protest. “I 


don’t want to be different! I just want to be a 
warrior!” 





CHAPTER 10 
w& 


“ 
Yellowfang stormed out of the medicine cat’s den in 
a whirl of fury and terror, brushing past Rowanberry, 
who was waiting for her. 

“What’s the matter?” Rowanberry called, trotting 
after her. “Are you okay?” 

Yellowfang strode on without replying. Her paw still 
ached, but she did her best to ignore it. She didn’t want 
to talk to any cat, not even her sister. She was heading 
for the warriors’ den, but before she had covered even 
half the distance, Brightflower bounded up to her. 

“Little one!” her mother gasped. “Are you badly 
hurt? I hear you fought so bravely.” 

“Sagewhisker fixed everything,’ Yellowfang 
muttered, not breaking stride. 

Brightflower kept pace with her. “You need to rest,” 
she fretted. “Stonetooth won’t expect you to go out on 
patrol until you’re fully healed.” 

‘T’m fine, okay?” Yellowfang snapped, pretending 
not to see the shocked look in her mother’s eyes. 

“Hey, Yellowfang!” Archeye intercepted her as she 


hurried on. “I hear you were wounded. How are you?” 

“Fine.” 

Suddenly the clearing seemed to be full of cats, all 
of them bearing down on her, asking stupid questions 
about her injuries. Can t they see I’m okay? 

“Leave me alone, will you?” she snarled at Foxpaw 
and Wolfpaw as they came scurrying up, eager to hear 
about the battle. She veered away from the warriors’ 
den and ran across the clearing to the entrance. 

“Stuck-up furball!” Foxpaw yowled after her. 

Yellowfang plunged through the gap and headed for 
the shadows under the trees. Her mind was still 
reeling, but she was grateful for the calm and quiet of 
the forest. A moment later she heard the sound of paw 
steps and picked up a familiar scent: Rowanberry had 
followed her. 

“What do you want?” Yellowfang growled. 

‘Tm worried about you,” her sister responded, 
blinking at Yellowfang in concern. “You don’t look 
badly hurt, but I can see something is wrong.” 

For a moment Yellowfang felt the urge to tell 
Rowanberry the crazy things that Sagewhisker had 
said, all the nonsense about being able to feel other 


cats’ injuries. But as soon as she opened her jaws to 
speak, another sharp pain shot through her paw. With a 
sinking feeling in her belly she looked at Rowanberry, 
and saw that one of her claws was bent backward. 

“What’s wrong with your paw?” she asked, forcing 
the words out. “Did you get hurt in the battle?” 

Rowanberry nodded. “It’s a bit sore,” she admitted. 

Yellowfang knew that she could never tell her sister 
the truth about what she was feeling. The stab of pain 
had shown her that Sagewhisker was right. /f J tell 
Rowanberry, she'll think I’m weird. It would 
change everything. 

“Go see Sagewhisker,” she told her sister. “Don’t 
worry about me. PI be fine on my own for a while.” 

Rowanberry hesitated for a heartbeat, then touched 
her nose briefly to Yellowfang’s ear and scampered 
toward the camp. 

Yellowfang watched her until she was out of sight. / 
can cope with these feelings, she told herself. They 
wont stop me from being a great warrior. With her 
head up, she began padding through the trees. This 
changes nothing. 


Yellowfang stalked along the edge of the marshes, 


enjoying the warmth of sunlight on her pelt and the 
taste of the plump vole she carried in her jaws. Three 
sunrises had passed since the battle, and the pain in her 
body had faded away. “We’ve hunted well today,” she 
mumbled to Nutwhisker around her mouthful of prey. 

Nutwhisker, who was dragging a squirrel, paused for 
a moment and let his prey drop to the ground. “We’d 
do even better if we weren’t stuck here in the 
marshes,” he commented. “I can’t believe that a 
badger would dare move into our territory.” 

Featherstorm, who was leading the hunting patrol, 
caught what Nutwhisker said and rolled her eyes. “You 
know very well we’ve always had trouble with 
badgers,” she meowed. “Anyway, it won’t be a 
problem for long, now that Cedarstar has ordered extra 
patrols to keep an eye open for it.” 

Blizzardwing, who padded up with Foxpaw just 
behind him, nodded. “We’ll soon get rid of it. And then 
we can hunt all over the territory again.” 

“I’m not scared of badgers,” Foxpaw declared, 
dropping the starling she was carrying. “I’d give it a 
good thump on the nose if it dared to chase me!” 

Blizzardwing’s head swiveled around and he fixed 


his apprentice with a freezing glare. “If you’re not 
scared of badgers then you’re a mouse-brain,” he told 
Foxpaw. “They’re the most ferocious animals in the 
forest—far worse than foxes. If one chases you, run 
away as far and as fast as you can. Now pick up your 
fresh-kill and let’s get a move on.” 

Foxpaw obeyed, scowling. Yellowfang exchanged a 
glance with Nutwhisker before following at the rear of 
the patrol. Foxpaw thinks she’s so great. It will take 
more than a cocky little apprentice to deal with this 
badger! 

When the patrol returned to camp, Yellowfang was 
arranging the new prey on the fresh-kill pile when she 
heard a sudden commotion at the entrance to the 
camp: cats’ voices raised in shock and anger, and the 
beat of paws on hard ground. 

Is it the badger? Yellowfang wondered, her heart 
pounding. She spun around to see Toadskip and 
Nettlespot escorting two strange cats into the camp. A 
moment later she realized that they weren’t strangers 
at all—not to her. 

Red and Boulder! What are they doing here? 

Cedarstar emerged from his den underneath the oak 


tree and paced across the camp. “What do they 
want?” 

“We found them on our territory,’ Nettlespot 
explained. “They wouldn’t tell us why they were 
there.” 

“Were you spying?” Cedarstar demanded, fixing a 
suspicious gaze on the two newcomers. 

“Tear their pelts off!” Frogtail called out from the 
crowd. 

“Yeah,” Mudclaw agreed. “They’ve no business 
here.” 

Hostile murmurs rose from the corners of the camp. 
Glancing around, Yellowfang spotted Raggedpelt 
crouching down as if he was ready to pounce on the 
Twolegplace cats. A low growl came from his throat. 

“Well?” Cedarstar prompted. “Why have you come 
here?” 

Red took a pace forward with her head held high. 
Yellowfang couldn’t help admiring her courage. She 
looked barely old enough to be an apprentice, yet she 
held Cedarstar’s gaze calmly. 

“My name is Red, and this is Boulder,’ she 
announced. “We want to join your Clan.” 


The defiant muttering changed to murmurs of 
disbelief. 

“Right!” Nutwhisker spoke into Yellowfang’s ear. 
“As if we'd swallow that!” 

Boulder stepped forward to stand beside his friend. 
“We really do,” he insisted. “We want to hunt and fight 
like you do.” 

“Why?” Stonetooth challenged them, padding out of 
the crowd to join Cedarstar. “You belong in the 
Twolegplace. You should go back.” 

“And stay there!” Amberleaf called out. 

“I don’t believe a single word of this,” Blizzardwing 
put in. “It must be a trick!” 

Cedarstar stared at the intruders. “Tell us why you 
wish to join ShadowClan,” he meowed. 

“It’s great here in the forest!” Boulder burst out 
enthusiastically. “You catch your own prey, and—” 

Red gave him a hard shove. “Shut up, flea-brain! 
Thats not whats most important.” Addressing 
Cedarstar with a polite dip of her head, she went on, 
“You impressed us when you fought with us. You 
showed us your strength and skill, but you showed us 
mercy, too.” 


“That’s right,’ Boulder added. “You could have 
killed us, but you chose not to. If that’s what it means 
to live by your warrior code—that, and the fact that 
you feed yourselves, and find your own shelter—then 
we want to be part of it.” 

Silence greeted the young cats’ serious words, 
followed by a babble of comment. 

“They’re lying!” 

“Maybe not. Maybe—” 

Cedarstar raised his tail for silence. “It will be a 
long, hard struggle to win acceptance here in the 
Clan,” he warned the newcomers. “Kittypets have 
never been welcome in the forest.” 

“We’re not kittypets!” Red retorted, her neck fur 
fluffing out with indignation. “Both our mothers caught 
their own prey on the streets of Twolegplace. We 
would never live with housefolk!” 

“You can’t prove that!” Scorchwind scoffed. 

But Cedarstar was looking thoughtful. “Very well,” 
he began slowly. “A Clan would be foolish to turn 
down the prospect of new warriors, especially when 
times are hard. More paws to catch prey will always 
be a valued addition. You may stay here for one moon. 


If you prove your loyalty during that time, I’ll consider 
making you part of ShadowClan.” 

“You won't regret it,’ Red mewed. 

“I hope not,’ Cedarstar responded. Flicking his tail 
to beckon Brackenfoot, he continued, “Show them to 
the apprentices’ den and teach them how to make 
nests for themselves.” 

As Brackenfoot led the rogues away, Yellowfang 
spotted Foxpaw watching with an expression of 
disgust. “Yuck!” she exclaimed to Wolfpaw. “I don’t 
want them sleeping with us. I bet they’re full of fleas.” 

“Don’t worry,’ Wolfpaw replied. “We’ll make sure 
they get all the worst jobs, like checking the elders for 
ticks.” 

Cedarstar turned to go back to his own den, but 
Stonetooth stood in his way. “Are you crazy?” he 
hissed. “These cats are our enemies. They must be 
spies!” 

“There’s no proof of that,’ Cedarstar responded 
calmly. 

Stonetooth snorted. “Do you remember when we 
thought Featherstorm might have been visiting the 
Twolegplace at night?” He lowered his voice, but 


Yellowfang could still catch his words. “Do you want 
more trouble like that? We can’t have our cats tangled 
up with—” 

Cedarstar cut him off with a brusque wave of his 
tail. “And we can’t afford to turn away strong young 
cats who might be telling the truth. Do you want them 
to go to another Clan and learn to fight against us? No, 
we'll give them a chance to...” 

As the warriors moved away, Yellowfang couldn’t 
hear any more. She glanced around for Raggedpelt, 
but he had vanished. Instead, Nutwhisker turned to her, 
his fur bristling. 

“Twolegplace cats made apprentices!” he 
exclaimed. “Cedarstar must be mouse-brained!” 

To her surprise, Yellowfang felt defensive on behalf 
of Red and Boulder. “We should give them a chance,” 
she meowed. “They’re cats, the same as us. And 
they’re not kittypets, which makes a difference, right?” 

“They’re still—” Nutwhisker began, but broke off 
as Archeye called his name from across the clearing. 

‘Tm leading a hunting patrol Do you want to 
come?” Archeye asked. 

“Sure!” Nutwhisker raced off. 


Yellowfang looked at Raggedpelt, who was waiting 
to jon Archeye’s patrol. J wish I knew what he was 
thinking. 

At that moment Raggedpelt noticed that she was 
watching him. For a heartbeat his gaze locked with 
hers; then he turned away with a scowl. 

Annoying furball! Yellowfang thought with a flash 
of frustration. When will he stop treating me like an 
enemy? He should know I'd never give away his 
secret! 


Yellowfang had been to the dirtplace and returned to 
camp as twilight was falling. As she emerged from the 
tunnel she spotted Red and Boulder sharing a vole a 
few taillengths away. She hesitated, not knowing 
whether to approach them or not. Before she could 
decide, Red looked up, then glanced at Boulder and led 
the way over to Yellowfang. 

“You’re the cat who came to see Hal, aren’t you?” 
Boulder meowed. “With that tom over there?” He 
pointed with his tail toward Raggedpelt, who was 
sitting with his brother near the fresh-kill pile. 

Yellowfang felt hot all over. “Yes,” she admitted. 

“I guess you weren’t supposed to be hanging out 


with cats from Twolegplace.” Red’s voice was 
surprisingly sympathetic. “You guys have a lot of rules 
about where you’re supposed to go.” 

“Yeah.” Yellowfang was grateful for the young cat’s 
understanding. “So if you don’t mind ...” 

“Don’t worry, your secret’s safe with us,’ Red 
mewed cheerfully. “Who knows, we might want to 
have a few nighttime adventures of our own, once 
we’ve learned our way around!” 

For a heartbeat Yellowfang felt a flash of suspicion, 
but she crushed it down. She guessed that most Clan 
cats had felt the same when they were young. 

Its just as well they didnt hear us talking to Hal, 
Yellowfang thought. They re too young to have been 
born when Featherstorm was visiting the 
Twolegplace, which means they have no idea that 
Hal could be Raggedpelt’s father. 

Yellowfang trotted to the fresh-kill pile and chose a 
mouse for herself. She noticed that Raggedpelt was 
casting worried glances toward Red and Boulder, his 
claws flexing nervously. 

I should tell him that they wont say anything 
about the time we went to Twolegplace. Then she let 


out an writable snort. Let him suffer! If he doesnt 
want to talk to me, I dont see why I should make 
his life easier. 


Next morning Yellowfang awoke to the sound of 
Cedarstar’s voice ringing out across the camp. “Let all 
cats old enough to catch their own prey join here 
beneath the Clanrock for a Clan meeting!” 

Yellowfang poked her head out of the warriors’ den. 
It had rained in the night, but now sunlight glittered on 
shallow pools on the floor of the clearing and on 
droplets caught among the branches of the dens. The 
dawn patrol, led by Finchflight, was just returning. 

Cedarstar stood on top of the rock, watching the 
Clan assemble below him. Sagewhisker was sitting at 
the entrance of her den, with Brightflower, Lizardfang, 
and Littlebird beside her. Foxpaw and Wolfpaw 
scrambled out of the apprentices’ den and wriggled 
through the gathering crowd to find places at the front. 
Red and Boulder followed more slowly. They 
exchanged an anxious glance with each other and sat 
down close to the brambles that circled the clearing. 

Nutwhisker and Ashheart brushed past Yellowfang 


on their way out of the den. “Come on!” Nutwhisker 
urged her. “Don’t you want to know what’s going on?” 

Yellowfang followed them. Spotting Rowanberry 
sitting close to the base of the rock, she bounded over 
to join her. “What’s all this about?” she asked. 

Rowanberry licked one paw and drew it over her 
ear. “No idea,” she mewed. 

By now most of the Clan was sitting around the 
rock. Finchflight and the rest of the dawn patrol— 
including Raggedpelt, Yellowfang noticed—were the 
last to arrive. When they had settled down, Cedarstar 
spoke. 

“Yesterday, two rogues from the Twolegplace came 
here and asked to join our Clan. Today they will begin 
their training as apprentices. Red, Boulder, come 
here.” 

A murmur of mingled surprise and hostility rose 
from the assembled cats as Red and Boulder sprang to 
their paws. For a moment they hesitated; Red tried to 
give her shoulders a quick grooming. 

“What happened to waiting a moon for them to 
prove their loyalty?” Rowanberry muttered. 

Yellowfang shrugged. “I guess they have to start 


training right away,” she mewed. “And how can they 
do that without a mentor?” 

“Come,” Cedarstar repeated, beckoning with his tail. 

Boulder and Red picked their way through the cats, 
who drew back to leave them an empty space at the 
base of the Clanrock. They halted close to Yellowfang; 
though they held their heads and tails high, she could 
see that they were both nervous. 

“What happens now?” Red hissed to her out of the 
side of her jaws. 

“You'll be fine,” Yellowfang reassured her softly. 
“Just listen to Cedarstar.” 

“Red,” Cedarstar began, “you have left your home 
in Twolegplace, and stated your wish to become a 
member of ShadowClan. From this time on you shall 
be known as Russetpaw.” His gaze traveled around 
the cats until it rested on _ Featherstorm. 
“Featherstorm,” he went on, “you are a skillful Clan 
cat with an excellent knowledge of the warrior code. I 
know that you will pass this knowledge on to your 
apprentice.” 

Yellowfang bit back an exclamation of surprise. 
Cedarstar knows that Featherstorm used to hang 


out with Twolegplace cats! Russetpaw and Boulder 
might be too young to remember seeing her there, 
but what if they heard about her from the kittypets? 

Featherstorm, looking less than pleased, made her 
way to the front and stood waiting. “She’s your 
mentor,” Yellowfang whispered to Russetpaw. “Go and 
touch noses with her.” 

With a grateful look, Russetpaw obeyed, and stood 
beside Featherstorm while Cedarstar continued. 
“Boulder, you too have asked for a place in 
ShadowClan. From this time on you shall be known as 


33 


“Hang on,” Boulder meowed. 

Yelowfang gasped. No cat interrupted the Clan 
leader, especially when he spoke from the Clanrock. 

“He’ll be crow-food!” Rowanberry muttered. 

Cedarstar’s tail lashed once. “What is it?” 

“I like my name,” Boulder announced, obviously 
unaware that he had done anything unusual. “Can I 
keep it?” 

The Clan leader paused for a couple of heartbeats. 
Finally, to Yellowfang’s surprise, he nodded. “Very 
well. From this time on you will be known as Boulder. 


Mousewing, you will be mentor to this new apprentice. 
I trust that you will teach him the skills he needs and 
the behavior expected from a Clan cat.” 

The thick-furred black tom shot his apprentice a 
heavily disapproving look. “You can be sure of that,” 
he told Cedarstar. 

Boulder walked over to Mousewing and touched 
noses with him. 

“I never heard of such a thing!” Lizardfang 
grumbled. “Apprentices picking ther own names? 
What’s the Clan coming to?” 

Littlebird replied too softly for Yellowfang to hear, 
though she looked more sympathetic. But Yellowfang 
guessed that most of the Clan would agree with 
Lizardfang. 

“Cedarstar, have you taken leave of your senses?” 
Stonetooth demanded as Cedarstar leaped down from 
the Clanrock. “It’s bad enough welcoming rogues into 
the Clan, but letting him keep his name ...” 

The Clan leader sighed. “You have to recognize 
when a battle is worth fighting,’ he meowed with a 
touch of weariness. 

Stonetooth snorted. 


As the Clan began to drift out of the clearing, 
Yellowfang spotted Raggedpelt heading in her 
direction. She took a pace forward, hoping that he was 
going to speak to her at last. But the tabby tom 
brushed past her as if he didn’t even know that she 
was there. 

“Suit yourself,’ she muttered, glaring after him. She 
let out a small, crushed sigh. Is winning his trust a 
battle worth fighting? Is Raggedpelt worth all this 
worry? 





CHAPTER 11 
w& 


“ 
“Look behind you, Yellowfang!” Brackenfoot’s 
yowl rang clearly across the training area. “You’re 
fighting two enemies, remember!” 

Yellowfang whirled, ducking under the blow that 
Boulder was aiming at her, and in the same movement 
crashed into his side, trying to knock him over. But 
Boulder scrambled out of range, and then Yellowfang 
had to turn again and leap away as Russetpaw 
charged at her. 

Turn and slash ... leap ... turn again ... got you, 
Russetpaw! ... duck ... jump back ... Great 
StarClan, these rogues are good! 

Several sunrises had passed since Russetpaw and 
Boulder had come to ShadowClan. Brackenfoot had 
taken all the apprentices for a training session; 
Yellowfang and Rowanberry had gone along for the 
practice. 

“Cedarstar’s right when he says that every warrior 
needs to keep their battle skills sharp,’ Rowanberry 
had commented as they followed their father to the 


clearing. “And we’ll show these rogues what it means 
to be a ShadowClan warrior.” 

But as soon as Yellowfang began the training 
exercise, taking on Russetpaw and Boulder at once to 
perfect her battle skills when she was outnumbered, 
she realized that practicing with them was harder than 
she had expected. Though the two rogues had only a 
scant idea of Clan battle moves, they were both strong 
and well muscled, and flung themselves determinedly 
into the fight. Yellowfang felt as though every muscle 
in her body was taking a beating. I’ve got to get this 
right, she thought, aware that her sister and the two 
younger apprentices were watching from the edge of 
the clearing. 

Yellowfang was trying the move that had worked so 
well in the battle beside the Twoleg fence, rearing on 
her hind paws and battering Russetpaw around the 
head with her forepaws. But Russetpaw leaped 
backward, and before Yellowfang could follow her, 
Boulder crashed into her hind legs and swept her to the 
ground. He thumped down on top of her, his face a 
mouse-length from hers, his eyes gleaming. 

“Do I win?” he asked smugly. 


“You do,” Brackenfoot replied. “Very good, Boulder 
—and you, Russetpaw. Pl tell your mentors you 
fought well.” 

Yellowfang scrambled to her paws, feeling bruised 
and indignant. It didn’t help when she heard Foxpaw 
exclaim loudly, “Clumsy furball! She can’t even keep 
her balance.” 

“That move needs work,” Brackenfoot agreed more 
tactfully, while Yellowfang glared at the apprentice. 
“Try it again, Yellowfang, and this time don’t forget 
what might be sneaking up behind you.” 

“Okay,” Yellowfang grunted. 

Facing Russetpaw again, she reared up, making sure 
she dug her hind paws firmly into the soft ground. She 
landed a couple of blows on Russetpaw’s ears, her 
claws sheathed, then spun around at once and dropped 
neatly on top of Boulder as he dived at her. 

“My round, I think,’ she meowed as he wriggled 
helplessly underneath her. 

“Much better,” Brackenfoot purred. “Now you can 
have a rest, Yellowfang, and we’ll see how Wolfpaw 
and Foxpaw get on.” 

Panting, Yellowfang retreated to the edge of the 


clearing and flopped down on the moss beside 
Rowanberry. 

“You know,’ Rowanberry muttered, “Russetpaw 
and Boulder are much better at this than I expected. 
Maybe they didn’t lead such soft lives after all!” 

Soft lives! Yellowfang opened her jaws to tell her 
sister just how big and scary some of the cats in 
Twolegplace were, then realized that she couldn’t say 
anything without giving herself away. “They’ll be good 
fighters when they’re trained,” she agreed. 

Enjoying the respite, she watched as Brackenfoot 
took Foxpaw and Wolfpaw through the same battle 
moves, and then let them practice with Boulder and 
Russetpaw. She couldn’t help a purr of satisfaction 
when Russetpaw landed on top of Foxpaw, squashing 
all the breath out of her. 

“Who can’t balance now?” she whispered to 
Rowanberry. 

While Foxpaw shook moss off her pelt, Brackenfoot 
called Rowanberry into the center of the clearing. 
Then he paused and glanced up at the sun. “It’s past 
sunhigh,” he meowed. “You must be starving. Let’s go 
back to camp for a piece of fresh-kill; then we’ ll come 


back and finish the session.” 

He headed through the trees toward the camp. The 
brambles were in sight when Yellowfang spotted 
Raggedpelt slinking away. He shot a glance at the 
returning cats, then veered off in the opposite direction. 

Watching his hasty retreat, Yellowfang felt a stab of 
sympathy. Maybe I should tell him that the rogues 
arent going to say anything about our visit to 
Twolegplace. 

“Brackenfoot, I need to talk to Raggedpelt,” she told 
her father, angling her ears toward the spot where the 
tabby tom had disappeared among the ferns. 

Brackenfoot hesitated, as if he was going to insist 
that she come into the camp to eat and then return to 
the training session. 

I’ve done my bit, Yellowfang thought indignantly. 
And I’m a warrior now. I can make up my own 
mind when I train. “It’s important,” she insisted. 

Brackenfoot nodded. “Okay, Yellowfang. See you 
later.” 

With a nod to her Clanmates, Yellowfang bounded 
into the pinewoods after Raggedpelt. Everything was 
quiet. Yellowfang could hear her own breathing above 


the soft pad of her paws on the pine needles. Sunlight 
slanted through the trees, casting bars of light and 
shadow on the ground. Affection for her territory 
rushed over Yellowfang. This is the best place in the 
forest! In the whole world! 

A terrible snarling sound from somewhere up ahead 
jolted Yellowfang back to reality. For a heartbeat 
horror froze her limbs. 

That sounds like the badger! 

Yellowfang raced through the trees, and found 
herself heading into a stretch of territory where the 
trunks grew more thickly, with brambles underneath to 
tear at her pelt and tangled undergrowth to block her 
path. Rounding a hazel thicket, she halted with a yelp 
of shock. She was standing on a small hillock, looking 
down into a circle of thorns where Raggedpelt was 
crouching. The only gap, the only way of escape, was 
blocked by a huge, ragged-furred badger. It had its 
back to Yellowfang, but she could hear its fierce 
snarling and its stink washed over her, making her eyes 
water. 

Raggedpelt was lashing out bravely at the badger’s 
head and shoulders, but the creature’s thick fur 


softened his blows. He was backed against a tangle of 
brambles, unable to use his greater agility to dodge the 
badger’s attack. A storm of pain assailed Yellowfang 
as the beast struck at Raggedpelt again and again with 
heavy, blunt claws. Its yellow teeth snapped perilously 
close to his neck. 

Trying to ignore the stinging all over her pelt, 
Yellowfang bunched her muscles to leap down and join 
the fight. Then she noticed two tiny snouts poking out 
from the midst of the brambles behind Raggedpelt. 

Oh, no! Raggedpelt is between the mother and 
her den! 

Yellowfang leaped into the fray, but in the same 
heartbeat more terrible pain seized her, as if the 
badger’s claws were raking across her body. She 
landed badly, falling onto one side, then forced herself 
to struggle to her paws. 

You're not hurt, she told herself. This is 
Raggedpelt’s pain you're feeling. If you dont help 
him, he’ll be wounded even more. 

Gritting her teeth, Yellowfang flung herself onto the 
badger’s back. The fierce creature reared its head, 
snapping and snarling, but its jaws couldn’t reach her. 


Yellowfang clung on, forcing her claws into the soft fur 
behind the badger’s ears. She could hear the cubs 
squealing, and felt a momentary stab of pity. This 
mother badger is only trying to protect her cubs. 
Then she forced the pity down. Shes hurting my 
Clanmate! 

“PI draw it away!” she gasped to Raggedpelt. 
“Then run!” 

Yellowfang sprang off the badger’s back, flinching 
as the animal swiveled its head and fixed its tiny, berry- 
bright eyes on her. Somehow, she had to entice the 
badger away from Raggedpelt. She limped backward, 
hardly needing to pretend to be injured because of the 
sensations that were coursing through her body. 

Come on, badger! Follow me, and let Raggedpelt 
escape. When another wave of agony washed over 
her, Yellowfang had to struggle to stay on her paws. 
I’m not hurt. I’m not bleeding. This is Raggedpelt’s 
pain. I have to fight through it! 

With a roar of fury the badger lumbered toward her, 
one huge paw outstretched to strike. Yellowfang 
waited until the last moment, then sprang up, clawing 
at the creature’s muzzle. The badger staggered 


sideways, leaving a narrow space between its flank 
and the thorns. 

“Run, Raggedpelt!” Yellowfang screeched. 

Raggedpelt slipped through the gap before the 
badger could trap him again. Once clear of the thorns 
he turned, crouching beside Yellowfang, ready to help 
her fight. Yellowfang could see that her Clanmate’s 
pelt was clumped and spiky with blood, and more blood 
was welling from wounds in his shoulder and side. 
“Get away!” she hissed. 

“You can’t fight alone!” Raggedpelt gasped. 

“Just go, flea-brain!” 

Yellowfang darted in again, leaping to claw the 
badger on one side of its snout. Glancing back, she 
saw that Raggedpelt was limping away, leaving 
spatters of blood on the grass. Snarlng another 
challenge to the badger, she slowly backed off, then 
spun around and fled after her Clanmate. 

“Are you mouse-brained?” Raggedpelt demanded 
when she had caught up to him. “You didn’t have to 
take a risk like that. You should have gone to fetch 
more warriors.” 

“There was no time,” Yellowfang flashed back at 


him. “You would have bled to death before I got back 
to the camp!” Every word was an effort. Raggedpelt’s 
hurt was flooding over her so strongly that she barely 
had the strength to put one paw in front of another. 

“Are you okay?” Raggedpelt’s anger gave way to 
concern. “Are you wounded?” 

‘T’m fine ...” Yellowfang gasped. “You’re the one 
who needs help. Here, lean on my shoulder.” And 
StarClan grant that the badger isn t chasing us! 

Whole moons seemed to pass before the entrance to 
the camp came into sight. Yellowfang shoved 
Raggedpelt into the brambles and staggered after him. 
The camp was quiet; Yellowfang guessed most of the 
cats were out on patrol, or training. 

Featherstorm was sitting near the warriors’ den with 
Brightflower. She glanced up as her son and 
Yellowfang emerged into the camp. Instantly she 
sprang to her paws and rushed across the clearing to 
Raggedpelt’s side. 

“Raggedpelt!” she screeched. “What happened?” 

As soon as he reached the clearing Raggedpelt had 
collapsed on his side, his chest heaving. “Badger!” he 
gasped. 


Brightflower raced over to the medicine cat’s den, 
calling for Sagewhisker, who ran over to examine 
Raggedpelt. The medicine cat gave him a few rapid 
sniffs, then looked up at Yellowfang. “I think we need 
to talk. Wait for me in my den while I look after 
Raggedpelt.” 

Words crowded into Yellowfang’s mind, of protest 
or denial that they had anything to say to each other, 
but she left them all unspoken. Nodding, she paced 
across the clearing and slid between the rocks into 
Sagewhisker’s den. 





CHAPTER 12 
l% 


a 

Yellowfang sank down on the bare earth floor of the 
medicine cats den, curling herself into a tight ball 
against the soreness in her pelt. She was dimly aware 
of Sagewhisker returning, collecting something from 
her herb store, and leaving again. Gradually the agony 
in Yellowfang’s muscles began to ease, and she let 
herself relax. 

I want to go back to my den and sleep for a 
moon! 

She was struggling to stay awake when 
Sagewhisker reappeared, and she sat up, trying to look 
alert. 

“Raggedpelt is resting,’ the medicine cat meowed. 
“T gave him some poppy seed.” 

Yellowfang nodded. “Good.” 

For a moment Sagewhisker said nothing, just padded 
over to her herb store and began tidying up. Then she 
glanced over her shoulder at Yellowfang. “What are 
you going to do now?” she prompted. 

Yellowfang didn’t understand the question. “You 


mean, right now? Sleep.” 

Sagewhisker gave a tiny shake of her head. “In the 
future.” 

“Be a warrior, of course.” 

“What about this pain that you feel for others?” the 
medicine cat asked. 

“Is there some sort of herb you can give me to take 
it away?” Yellowfang mewed hopefully. 

Sagewhisker shook her head. “There’s nothing 
wrong with you, Yellowfang. Nothing that needs 
healing.” She finished patting down the fern fronds that 
covered the herb store before she came to sit beside 
Yellowfang. Meeting her gaze, she continued, “You 
have a great ability, one that can be used to help your 
Clanmates.” 

Yellowfang shook her head. “I don’t see how.” 

“You can tell as soon as they are injured,” 
Sagewhisker replied. “Or where their pain is when 
they are sick.” 

“So can you—because cats tell you!” Yellowfang 
pointed out. Struggling to stay calm, she added, “I don’t 
want to feel like this. It’s getting in the way of being a 
warrior.” 


Sagewhisker said nothing for so long that 
Yellowfang grew worried. Finally she spoke. “Maybe 
being a warrior isn’t the best use of you in 
ShadowClan,” she mewed quietly. “Maybe you should 
be a medicine cat.” 

Yellowfang sprang to her paws. “Don’t be 
ridiculous! I’m a warrior!” When Sagewhisker met her 
gaze with wide, serious eyes, she went on. “I can’t 
help that I feel when other cats are hurt. I don’t want 
to, and if I could get rid of it I would. You’re supposed 
to be helping me!” 

Sagewhisker sighed. “Yellowfang, that’s all I ever 
want to do.” 

Suddenly Yellowfang didn’t want to talk to 
Sagewhisker anymore. She doesnt understand! 
Spinning around, she stormed into the clearing. 

Outside, Brightflower was just emerging from the 
warriors’ den. Spotting Yellowfang, she bounded over 
to her. “Raggedpelt—” Brightflower began, and broke 
off. “Are you okay?” she asked anxiously. 

“T’m fine,” Yellowfang snapped. 

Brightflower blinked. “Raggedpelt is asking for 
you,” she meowed. 


Yellowfang wasn’t sure she wanted to talk to any 
cat right now, but after a moment’s hesitation she 
turned her paw steps in the direction of the warriors’ 
den. Raggedpelt was curled up in his nest. It was lined 
with extra feathers; with a purr of amusement 
Yellowfang thought that the tabby warrior looked like a 
baby crow with a black frill around his head. As she 
picked her way among the other nests to his side, 
Raggedpelt raised his head. 

“Yellowfang ...” he murmured. “I wanted to thank 
you. You saved my life.” 

Yellowfang’s pelt grew hot with embarrassment. “It 
was nothing,” she mumbled. “Any cat would have 
done the same.” 

The secret that lay between her and Raggedpelt 
made her feel uncomfortable, as if ants were crawling 
through her fur. She took a pace back, but before she 
could leave, Raggedpelt reached out a paw to stop her. 

“Promise me you'll never do something so mouse- 
brained again,’ he grunted. “You could have been 
killed.” 

“Well, you were nearly killed yourself,’ Yellowfang 
shot back at him. “So I’d be in good company!” 


Raggedpelt didn’t reply, just let out another grunt of 
pain. 

“Lie down,” Yellowfang meowed, helping him to 
settle in his nest. “I’ll bring you something to eat later.” 
Glancing back before she left the den, she saw that 
Raggedpelt’s eyes were closed. A spark of warmth 
woke inside her. Maybe we can go back to being 
friends. 

Outside the den, Yellowfang arched her back in a 
long stretch. Her weariness was ebbing, and she 
longed to work off her energy in a run through the 
forest. As she relaxed from her stretch she became 
aware of some cat watching her, and she turned to see 
Foxpaw fixing her with a burning glare. Whats her 
problem? But Yellowfang couldn’t be bothered to 
confront the apprentice. She put Foxpaw out of her 
mind as she padded across the camp to where 
Stonetooth and a few of the other warriors were 
gathered around the fresh-kill pile. The Clan deputy 
was sitting with his paws tucked under him, dozing in 
the sunlight; he blinked awake as Yellowfang halted in 
front of him. As he struggled to his paws she thought 
he looked suddenly old, but a heartbeat later he was as 


crisp and efficient as ever. 

“Yellowfang, I want you to lead a patrol back to 
where you saw the badger. We need to drive that 
creature out of the woods once and for all.” 

“Of course,” Yellowfang replied, with a thrill of 
pride that she had been asked to take on such an 
important job. 

“Good.” Stonetooth glanced around at the other 
warriors near the fresh-kill pile. “Archeye, Mousewing, 
you can go,” he mewed. 

“Great!” Archeye swallowed the last of the vole he 
was sharing with Mousewing, and swiped his tongue 
around his jaws. “Now?” 

Stonetooth nodded. “Right away. Scorchwind and 
Newtspeck, you can join them.” 

“And us!” Wolfpaw panted, bounding up with 
Foxpaw at his shoulder. 

The Clan deputy shook his head. “This patrol is just 
for warriors.” 

Wolfpaw’s tail dropped in disappointment, while his 
sister glared at Yellowfang. Dont look at me like 
that, Yellowfang thought, longing to give the annoying 
apprentice a cuff around the ear. Its not my fault. 


And if you'd seen what that badger can do, maybe 
you wouldn t be so keen to go. 

“Hang on a moment,” Archeye meowed. “Maybe 
we should let the apprentices come with us. They need 
the experience.” 

Oh, Archeye, why cant you keep your jaws 
shut? Yellowfang would have liked to speak the words 
aloud, but she had to keep quiet and not show her 
annoyance while the deputy considered. 

Eventually Stonetooth nodded. “Very well.” As 
Wolfpaw and Foxpaw began to bristle with excitement, 
he fixed them with a stern gaze. “But do exactly as 
Yellowfang and the senior warriors tell you,’ he 
continued. “Stay well back until they work out how to 
proceed.” 

The two apprentices nodded impatiently; Yellowfang 
suspected the deputy’s words had gone right over their 
heads. Waving her tail to gather her patrol, she led the 
way through the brambles and into the forest. As soon 
as they were heading through the trees, Scorchwind 
put on a burst of speed to walk alongside her. 

‘TI flay that badger,” he snarled. “PI spread her 
guts from here to the Twolegplace. No creature hurts 


my brother and gets away with it.” 

Yellowfang pictured the two tiny badger cubs who 
had peeped out from the brambles while their mother 
was attacking the Clan cats. Js it fair to drive the 
badger and her babies out of their home? Couldnt 
we just stay away from that part of the forest until 
she has raised her cubs? 

Yellowfang knew she wasn’t thinking like a warrior, 
but she was also certain that if it had been the other 
way around, she would do anything to protect her kits, 
including attacking any animals who strayed too close 
to her den. 

Maybe I could say that I dont remember the way 
back. 

Before she could decide, she heard a triumphant 
yowl from Mousewing, who was sniffing among the 
undergrowth on one side of the path. “Over here! 
Raggedpelt’s scent, and blood on the bracken!” 

Now Yellowfang had no choice but to lead the patrol 
straight to the clearing. She couldn’t work out whether 
she felt relieved or disappointed. When the thorns that 
circled the clearing came into sight, Yellowfang raised 
her tail to signal her patrol to halt. “It’s through there,” 


she meowed. “Wolfpaw, Foxpaw, don’t you dare move 
a paw until I tell you.” 

Remembering how Deerleap had taught her to look, 
listen, and scent, she tried to detect what the badger 
might be doing, and what they could expect to find 
when they entered the clearing. But although there 
was a Strong stink of the creature, there was nothing to 
be seen, and no sound came from behind the brambles. 

“Yellowfang,” Archeye murmured, “we ought to 
have a plan before we go in there.” 

Yellowfang nodded. “What do you suggest?” 

Beckoning the patrol closer, Archeye went on in a 
low voice. “When we go through the gap, we should 
split up. Newtspeck, Scorchwind, and Foxpaw that 
way’—he drew scratches on the ground with his 
claws—“Mousewing, you, me, and Wolfpaw this way. 
We’ ll try to surround her.” 

“Good,” Yellowfang agreed. “T’ll follow you in and 
help where I’m needed. Scorchwind—” She fixed the 
ginger tabby with a stern gaze. “You will not take 
unnecessary risks. Got that?” 

Scorchwind paused, then nodded reluctantly. “Got 
it.” 


“Okay,” Archeye went on. “Then, when we’ve 
pulled down the badger, we’ll move on to her cubs. 
They shouldn’t give us much trouble.” 

Yellowfang found herself wincing at the thought of 
sinking her claws into the tiny, helpless cubs. I’m a 
warrior! she told herself. J have to do this! “Right,” 
she mewed. “Let’s go.” 

Mousewing was the first of the cats to burst into the 
clearing. But instead of veering to the side as Archeye 
had planned, he halted, letting out a yowl of surprise. 
“The badger is gone!” 

Yellowfang ran in behind him and gazed around the 
clearing. The thorns were trampled and the bramble 
tendrils torn and scattered. Fresh earth showed where 
the badger had frantically dragged her cubs out of the 
den. 

Thank StarClan, thought Yellowfang. I don t have 
to kill them after all! 

But then Wolfpaw called out. “Here’s their trail! We 
can still catch them.” Without waiting for any cat to 
respond he charged away along the badger’s trail. 

“Wait!” Yellowfang yowled. “You can’t attack a 
badger by yourself!” And I’m leading this patrol! she 


added silently. 

Wolfpaw slackened his pace enough for the rest of 
the cats to catch up. Yellowfang took the lead as they 
followed the badgers’ path through trampled 
undergrowth that seemed soaked through with the reek 
of the creatures. At first the trail led toward the 
Twolegplace, then veered away toward the border 
with the unknown woods where no cat went. Soon 
Yellowfang began to pick up the scent of ShadowClan 
markers, and halted as they reached the edge of their 
territory. 

“We should keep going until we find them and kill 
them,” Scorchwind urged. “They might come back.” 

“That’s mouse-brained,” Yellowfang retorted. “We 
should be thankful that they’ve left without more cats 
getting hurt.” 

“You're right, Yellowfang,” Archeye meowed. “And 
it’s thanks to you that the badger took her cubs away. 
You showed her how fierce ShadowClan warriors can 
be.” 

“Yeah, she couldn’t get out fast enough,” 
Newtspeck agreed. 

Yellowfang ducked her head, embarrassed by their 


praise. How could she tell them that she felt nothing 
but relief that they didn’t need to harm the mother 
badger and her cubs? 





CHAPTER 13 
w& 


“ 

Yellowfang froze as a leaf drifted down right in front 
of her nose, but the lizard she was stalking through the 
marsh grass paid no attention. Leaves are falling all 
the time now, Yellowfang thought. Prey was becoming 
scarce as the foliage grew sparser, and her belly 
growled with hunger. The air was chilly with the 
promise of leaf-bare. 

Setting her paws down with all the care she could 
muster, Yellowfang crept up on the lizard where it had 
halted in a clump of thicker grass. But as she was 
waggling her haunches in preparation to pounce, 
another cat flashed past her in a blur of movement. 
Raggedpelt’s paws were outstretched, but he landed a 
mouse-length short. The lizard vanished, flickering 
away into the grass. 

Yellowfang sat up. “Hey!” she yowled. “That was 
my prey.” 

“You were too far away for a good pounce,” 
Raggedpelt retorted, turning to glare at her from wide 
amber eyes. 


“Huh! And you weren’t, I suppose.” Yellowfang 
flexed her claws and felt her shoulder fur beginning to 
bristle. “So how come neither of us has any prey for 
the Clan?” 

Raggedpelt took a breath to go on arguing, then let it 
out in a sigh. His tail drooped. “You’re right,’ he 
admitted, ducking his head. “I’m sorry. That was 
mouse-brained.” 

Yellowfang let out a sound that was half purr, half 
growl. “It’s okay, stupid furball,” she mewed, giving his 
cheek a lick. 

Raggedpelt stepped back, but only a little; the anger 
in his eyes had given way to warmth. “Since we’re 
both after the same thing, why don’t we hunt 
together?” he suggested. 

Yellowfang blinked, holding his gaze. It felt so good 
to be friends with Raggedpelt again, patrolling and 
hunting together since he had recovered from the 
wounds the badger had given him. “Why not?” she 
agreed. 


Brushing through the thorn tunnel, Yellowfang was 
satisfied with the result of the hunt. She was carrying a 
squirrel; it was thin, but it was the best piece of prey 


she’d spotted all day. And I almost didnt catch it. 
One more heartbeat, and it would have escaped up 
that tree. 

Raggedpelt had caught another lizard to make up for 
the one he had lost. Together the two cats bounded 
across the clearing and dropped their prey on the 
fresh-kill pile. 

“That went wel,’ Raggedpelt declared. “We should 
hunt together more often. We make a strong team.” 

Yellowfang nodded. “Sounds good to me.” 

“Remember the other day, when you chased that 
rabbit right into my claws? That was—” He broke off 
as Foxpaw came hurtling across the clearing and 
skidded to a halt in front of the fresh-kill pile. 

“Wow, a squirrel!” she exclaimed, her eyes 
stretching wide. “Congratulations, Raggedpelt.” 

“Its Yellowfang’s squirrel? the tabby tom 
responded. “It was a great catch, too.” 

Foxpaw’s enthusiastic expression faded abruptly; 
Yellowfang guessed that the squirrel suddenly wasn’t 
as impressive. With a disdainful curl of her lip the 
apprentice turned her back. Yellowfang rolled her 
eyes. Foxpaw is always in a huff about something. 


“Yellowfang!” 

At the sound of Littlebird’s voice, Yellowfang turned 
to see the elder standing at the entrance to her den, a 
few tail-lengths away. 

“Yes, what is it?” 

“Oh, Yellowfang ...” the elder began. “There’s a 
tick at the base of my tail, and I can’t reach it. I 
wonder if you could—” 

“Aren’t there any apprentices to deal with your 
ticks?” Yellowfang interrupted, staring pointedly at 
Foxpaw. 

“But I’m asking you, Yellowfang,’ the elder 
insisted. 

Yellowfang’s pelt burned at the smug look on 
Foxpaw’s face. She was conscious of the apprentice’s 
gaze following her as she plodded over to the elders’ 
den. Inside, the den was warm and stuffy. Lizardfang 
wasn’t there, so there was plenty of room for Littlebird 
to stretch out and show Yellowfang where the tick 
was. 

Yellowfang was still cross that Littlebird had ordered 
her around in front of Foxpaw. She didn’t want to go to 
Sagewhisker for mouse bile, so she dealt with the tick 


by gripping it in her teeth and tugging. It came out, and 
she ground it into the bracken underpaw. 

“That’s better,” Littlebird sighed, craning her neck to 
give her fur a lick. After a heartbeat she added 
casually, “I see you and Raggedpelt are getting along 
much better since he was attacked by the badger.” 

“Yeah ... I guess,” she muttered. 

“T’ve seen the pair of you fall out before now,” the 
elder went on, sounding concerned. 

Yellowfang just gave a noncommittal grunt, not 
meeting Littlebird’s gaze. 

“You know, Yellowfang,” Littlebird meowed, “I’m 
sure you have a long future ahead of you. There’s no 
need to rush into pairing up with a mate.” 

Embarrassment prickled Yellowfang’s paws. “I’m 
not in a rush to do anything!” she protested. 

Littlebird nodded. “That’s good.” 

“I should go,” Yellowfang muttered, eager to get out 
of the elders’ den. “Patrols ... hunting ...” 

“Just remember what I’ve said,’ Littlebird called 
after her as she scrambled into the open. 

More cats had gathered around the fresh-kill pile. 
Russetpaw and Boulder, in a patrol with their mentors, 


appeared laden with prey and dropped it on the pile. 
Poolcloud and Brightflower were sharing a pigeon, 
while Nutwhisker was demonstrating a battle move to 
Wolfpaw and Rowanberry. Foxpaw was still there, 
Yellowfang noticed, leaning close to Raggedpelt as he 
devoured a starling. Yellowfang stalked up to them in 
time to hear what the apprentice was saying. 

“Why don’t we go hunting together, Raggedpelt?” 

“You can’t go out on your own patrols!” Yellowfang 
informed her icily, before Raggedpelt could say 
anything. “You’re an apprentice!” 

“Not for much longer,’ Foxpaw mewed with a pert 
flick of her tail. “I passed my final assessment this 
morning!” 

“Great,” Yellowfang meowed, unable to summon up 
much enthusiasm. She ‘Il be twice as obnoxious once 
shes made a warrior! 

“Wolfpaw was a good apprentice.” Brightflower 
dipped her head to Poolcloud. “I enjoyed training him. 
And Blizzardwing told me how quickly Foxpaw picks 
things up.” 

“I couldn’t be more proud,’ Poolcloud purred, 
turning her head to give her shoulder a couple of quick 


” 


licks. “I know that Foxpaw and Wolfpaw will impress 
the whole of ShadowClan when they become 
warriors.” 

‘Tm sure they wil,’ Hollyflower added, padding up 
in time to hear the last few words. 

Yellowfang jumped as Nutwhisker’s whiskers 
tickled her ear and he muttered, “Foxpaw is bound to 
be leading patrols before she even goes to her first 
Gathering as a warrior.” 

Yellowfang nodded glumly. J dont want to patrol 
with her, she thought. But I suppose I'll have to put 
up with it. She’d better not try ordering me around, 
though! 

“Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey join 
here beneath the Clanrock for a meeting!” 

Foxpaw gave an excited bounce. “It’s our warrior 
ceremony!” 

Cats emerged from their dens and gathered around 
the Clanrock in a ragged circle. Yellowfang spotted 
Russetpaw and Boulder near the front, their eyes 
gleaming with anticipation, and realized that this was 
the first warrior ceremony they had seen. 
Featherstorm and Mousewing, their mentors, sat with 


them, joined after a moment by Archeye, Blizzardwing, 
and Deerleap. Brackenfoot bounded over to 
Brightflower, and the two cats sat down with 
Nutwhisker and Rowanberry. 

Lizardfang had reappeared, and crouched outside 
the elders’ den with Littlebird. Yellowfang could feel 
the old she-cat’s gaze upon her as she padded over to 
Raggedpelt and sat beside him. To her relief, Foxpaw 
had gone to stand at the front with Wolfpaw. 
Raggedpelt acknowledged Yellowfang with a flick of 
his ears. 

“One of the most important times in the life of a 
Clan is the making of new warriors,” Cedarstar 
announced. “Today, two apprentices will take their 
warrior vows.” His gaze searched out Brightflower, 
and he asked, “Is Wolfpaw ready to become a 
warrior?” 

Brightflower dipped her head. “He is, Cedarstar.” 

“And Foxpaw?” The Clan leader turned toward 
Blizzardwing. “Is she worthy of this honor?” 

“Worthy and more,” Blizzardwing replied. “She will 
be an outstanding warrior.” 

Cedarstar nodded. “If that is so, it’s due to your 


excellent training,” he told the mottled white tom. 

Foxpaw had puffed out her chest when she heard 
her mentor’s praise. 

“She’d better watch out,” Yellowfang whispered to 
Raggedpelt. “She’ll explode if she gets any more 
pleased with herself.” 

Leaping down from the Clanrock, Cedarstar 
continued, “I, Cedarstar, call upon my warrior 
ancestors to look down upon these apprentices. They 
have trained hard to understand the ways of your noble 
code, and I commend them to you as warriors in their 
turn.” He beckoned Wolfpaw and Foxpaw forward 
with a flick of his tail. “Foxpaw, Wolfpaw, do you 
promise to uphold the warrior code and to protect and 
defend this Clan, even at the cost of your own life?” 

“I do,’ Wolfpaw vowed, flexing his claws. 

“T do!” Foxpaw’s voice rang out confidently. 

“Then by the powers of StarClan,’ Cedarstar 
announced, “I give you your warrior names. Wolfpaw, 
from this moment you will be known as Wolfstep. 
StarClan honors your courage and your loyalty, and we 
welcome you as a full warrior of ShadowClan.” He 
stepped forward to lay his muzzle on the top of 


Wolfstep’s head, and Wolfstep licked his shoulder 
before stepping back into the ranks of his Clan. 

Then Cedarstar turned to Foxpaw, repeating the 
same words and giving her the name of Foxheart. 
“StarClan honors your energy and commitment, and 
we welcome you as a full warrior of ShadowClan.” 

As Foxheart stepped back after licking her leader’s 
shoulder, the Clan exploded into yowls of welcome and 
congratulation. “Foxheart! Wolfstep! Foxheart! 
Wolfstep!”” 

Yellowfang noticed that Boulder and Russetpaw 
were joming in enthusiastically, their eyes shining as 
they called out the new warriors’ names. They’re not 
at all bitter that they havent been made warriors 
too—even though Boulder must be a few moons 
older. 

“You know, I never thought I’d say this.” The voice 
was Amberleaf’s; Yellowfang glanced over her 
shoulder to see the older she-cat talking to Finchflight. 
“But those Twolegplace cats have really settled into 
the Clan. Maybe they’ ll make warriors after all.” 

Finchflight nodded. “They work hard, and 
Mousewing tells me they’re domg their best to 


understand the warrior code.” 

Yellowfang was pleased to hear Amberleaf—one of 
the strictest cats in the Clan—praising Boulder and 
Russetpaw. But disappointment welled up inside her 
when she looked back at Raggedpelt and saw that he 
had turned his back on the two newcomers yet again 
and was moving away. 

“Raggedpelt, you’re being mouse-brained,” she 
hissed, bounding after him. “You have to trust those 
two not to say anything about the time we visited 
Twolegplace.” When Raggedpelt just looked stubborn, 
she added, “They probably don’t think about their old 
lives at all! Any cat can see that they’re dedicated to 
ShadowClan now.” 

Raggedpelt gave a single lash of his tail. “They’ve 
only been in camp for three moons. We don’t know 
them, so how can we trust them?” he growled. “They 
could still be spies!” 

Yellowfang sighed. Why cant Raggedpelt see 
whats right in front of his own nose? 

“Talk to you later,’ she mewed abruptly, and 
bounded off to jom Rowanberry and Nutwhisker 
beside the fresh-kill pile. 


“I told you, you have to wake up and come on 
patrol!” 

Yellowfang woke from a deep sleep to hear 
Foxheart’s strident tones filling the warriors’ den. She 
was drawing breath for a stinging retort when she 
realized that ShadowClan’s newest warrior wasn’t 
talking to her. 

Toadskip was heaving himself out of his nest a 
couple of taillengths away. “Okay, okay,’ he 
grumbled. “No need to wake the whole Clan.” 

“You'd better hurry,’ Foxheart went on. She was 
poking her head through the outer branches of the den. 
“Cedarstar and Stonetooth are waiting for you. We’re 
going to check that the badger has really gone.” 

‘T’m coming. Just get out of my fur, okay,” Toadskip 
grumbled as he gave his pelt a good shake and headed 
out of the den. 

Foxheart pulled her head back; Yellowfang heard 
her scolding voice receding as the two cats trotted 
away. 

Yellowfang stretched her jaws in a massive yawn, 
then curled up again in the hope of going back to sleep. 
She still felt tired from the previous day, when she had 


taken part in three hunting patrols, including one after 
dark to look for night prey. Hunting 5 so much harder 
in leaf-bare, she thought drowsily. And I’m supposed 
to join another patrol after sunhigh. 

But sleep wouldn’t come. A sharp pain was stabbing 
into Yellowfang’s belly, and for a moment she 
wondered if she’d accidentally eaten crow-food. Then 
she realized that the pain was different somehow. Oh, 
not again! This is some other cat’ pain. Get out of 
my fur! 

For a short while Yellowfang tried to ignore the 
griping in her belly, but it was growing stronger with 
every heartbeat. Finally she had to admit that she 
needed to go and see Sagewhisker. Stiflng a groan, 
she blundered out of the den, the pangs stabbing so 
hard that she was almost bent double. Though she tried 
to avoid the sleeping bodies of the other warriors, she 
brushed against Nutwhisker, who raised his head and 
blinked sleepily at her. 

“Are you okay, Yellowfang?” 

“T’m fine,” Yellowfang snapped. “It’s just a cramp.” 

She shivered as she emerged into the open. An icy 
breeze was sweeping across the camp, and 


Yellowfang longed for her cozy bedding and the air 
inside the den, warm with her Clanmates’ breath. The 
clearing was deserted; all the cats were either huddled 
in their dens or out on patrol. 

Another stab of pain sent Yellowfang bounding 
across the clearing. Sagewhisker roused and looked up 
in surprise as Yellowfang slipped between the stones 
into her den. “Is something wrong, Yellowfang?” she 
asked with a yawn. 

By now the pain was so bad that it was hard for 
Yellowfang to reply. “Is there a cat with bellyache in 
the Clan?” she hissed through gritted teeth. 

Sagewhisker twitched her whiskers, fixing 
Yellowfang with a searching gaze. “What exactly do 
you feel?” 

“Agony! It hurts!” 

“I need a bit more detail than that,’ Sagewhisker 
responded calmly. 

“Its ... it’s like I swallowed a live rat,” Yellowfang 
gasped. “And it’s gnawing and clawing me from inside 
my belly.” 

Sagewhisker nodded. “That’s hunger,’ she mewed. 
“T’d guess that you’re picking up Nettlespot’s pain.” 


That makes sense, Yellowfang thought. Nettlespot 
had just given birth to two kits, but one of them had 
died and the remaining kit was weak. “Nettlespot has 
always been thin,” she murmured. 

“I’m worried about her, and Cloudkit,’ Sagewhisker 
agreed. “This is a bad season for new arrivals.” 

“Why doesn’t Nettlespot just ask for more food?” 
Yellowfang wondered aloud. 

“She’s too proud,” Sagewhisker told her. “She’s a bit 
old to be a mother and she’s determined to prove that 
she can care for her kit.” 

Pride wont fill her belly, Yellowfang thought. 
“What can I do to help?” she asked. “PI be no use to 
the Clan with this pain in my belly. I can hardly put one 
paw in front of another.” 

Sagewhisker gave her another close glance, then 
padded across her den to uncover one of her herb 
stores. She returned to Yellowfang with a mouthful of 
withered leaves. Yellowfang recognized the traveling 
herbs that she had eaten when she journeyed to the 
Moonstone. 

“These will dull the edge of Nettlespot’s hunger,” 
she meowed, laying the bundle at Yellowfang’s paws. 


“Meanwhile Pll ask one of the warriors to bring a 
piece of fresh-kill just for her.” 

Yellowfang looked at the herbs. Evidently 
Sagewhisker expected her to take them to the nursery 
for Nettlespot. As if I was her apprentice! But there 
was no point in arguing, so she picked up the leaves 
and staggered out of the den. 

Inside the nursery, Nettlespot was hunched over her 
kit, using her tail to draw him closer to her belly. 
“Cloudkit, you must feed,” she fretted. 

The tiny gray scrap of fur squirmed away from her, 
raising his voice in a piteous mewling. “Not enough 
milk!” 

As Yellowfang drew closer, a new spasm of pain 
gripped her belly, almost making her gasp and drop the 
herbs. Stumbling forward, she set them down in front 
of Nettlespot. “Eat those,” she panted. “Sagewhisker 
will bring you some fresh-kill to eat later.” 

Nettlespot gazed up at her with dull, exhausted eyes. 
“Thanks, Yellowfang,” she murmured. 

But Yellowfang didn’t wait for her thanks. She had 
already spun around and was bolting from the den, 
trying to shake the feelings of pain and panic from her 


fur. This wasn’t just an inconvenience now—it was 
scary, and exasperating. 

How can I be a warrior if I have to bear the pain 
of all the Clan? 





CHAPTER 14 
w& 


“D 
Yellowfang poked her head out of the warriors’ den 
to see the clearing covered with a thick pelt of snow. 
The branches of the surrounding trees were heavy 
with it, and a few white flakes were still drifting down. 

“It’s too early in the season to be this cold,” she 
muttered to herself. 

Shivering, she waded through the powdery snow 
toward the fresh-kill pile, where Stonetooth was 
organizing the day’s patrols. The older warriors 
gathered around him were exchanging troubled 
glances, and meowing to one another in low voices. 

Before Yellowfang could join them, she was 
intercepted by Sagewhisker, who was heading toward 
the nursery with a few leaves of tansy in her jaws. 
“These are for Cloudkit,’ she informed Yellowfang, 
mumbling around the mouthful of herbs. “He’s 
coughing a little.” 

Why tell me? “Okay,’ Yellowfang mewed. “I’m 
sure you'll fix him, Sagewhisker.” 

The medicine cat blinked at her, making Yellowfang 


even more uncomfortable. But all Sagewhisker said 
was, “Yes, the tansy should soon clear up his cough. 
And Nettlespot is improving since you took her the 
herbs the other day.” 

Yellowfang ducked her head. “Fine,” she meowed. 
“Er ... gotta go, Sagewhisker. Patrols.” She headed 
off rapidly, aware of the medicine cat’s gaze following 
her. 

“There you are, Yellowfang,” Stonetooth greeted 
her as she joined the group of warriors. “Crowtail’s 
leading a border patrol. You can join him with 
Hollyflower and Newtspeck.” 

“Sure,” Yellowfang responded, brightening up with 
the prospect of getting out of camp. 

“Let’s go.” Crowtail waved her tail and led the way 
through the thorn tunnel. 

Emerging into the forest, Yellowfang could hardly 
believe how different it looked under the covering of 
snow. All the humps and hollows in the ground had 
been smoothed out, and the surface of the snow was 
crisscrossed by tracks. The shadows had a bluish 
tinge, and every slight sound—the creak of a branch, 
the flutter of wings in a ttee—seemed magnified in the 


still air. 

“There’s so much white stuff!” Yellowfang 
murmured to Hollyflower. 

Her Clanmate nodded. “It’s been a long time since 
the last snowfall. I’d almost forgotten what it’s like.” 

I was a new apprentice then, Yellowfang thought. 
So much has happened since! 

Every so often snow would shower down from one 
of the trees; Yellowfang suppressed a mrrow of 
laughter as Newtspeck had to skip aside to avoid being 
drenched. Playfully Yellowfang flicked a pawful of 
snow at Hollyflower; the older she-cat jumped and 
spun around, her jaws gaping with shock. 

“T’m going to get you, Yellowfang!” 

Hollyflower scooped up more snow and flung it at 
Yellowfang. It landed right in her face; she shook her 
head to get rid of it, spraying snow in all directions. 

“Watch out! Snow coming!” she yowled, scuffling 
up more of the white stuff to throw at Hollyflower. 

Crowtail, who had drawn a few paces ahead, halted 
and glanced back over her shoulder. “Honestly, are you 
kits?” she demanded. “Grow up. This is a border 
patrol, or had you forgotten?” 


“Sorry, Crowtail,” Hollyflower meowed, dipping her 
head and looking embarrassed. 

“Sorry,” Yellowfang echoed, though she tossed 
another pawful of snow at Hollyflower’s retreating tail 
before following. 

By the time they reached the Thunderpath, 
Yellowfang was becoming tired of wading through the 
snow and getting clots of it tangled in her belly fur. She 
envied her Clanmates’ sleeker fur and longer legs, 
which kept their stomachs free. 

Crowtail stopped by the two narrow tunnels that 
burrowed underneath the Thunderpath. “We need to 
make sure no cats are using these to trespass on 
ShadowClan’s territory,’ she mewed. “With prey so 
scarce, there’s no telling what the other Clans might be 
up to.” 

“Just let them try!” Yellowfang growled, sliding out 
her claws. 

But when they examined the tunnels and the 
territory around them, there was no trace of enemy 
scent. 

“Pity.” Newtspeck’s lip curled in the beginning of a 
snarl. “A good scrap with a ThunderClan patrol would 


warm me up!” 

The patrol continued along the Thunderpath, then 
veered away to skirt the edge of the Twolegplace. As 
they drew closer to the walls and fences, Yellowfang 
grew more alert, watching out for kittypets who might 
recognize her. 

Hollyflower ran lightly across the snow and leaped 
up onto the nearest Twoleg fence. “Look at this!” she 
called Yellowfang. 

Yellowfang glanced back to where Crowtail and 
Newtspeck were investigating something at the bottom 
of a tree. Then she bounded up and joined Hollyflower 
on the fence. 

“What do you suppose that is?” Hollyflower asked, 
pointing with her tail at a humped shape of snow in the 
Twoleg garden. 

Yellowfang shrugged, more concerned with 
checking the garden for kittypets. “Who knows?” 

“Tt looks a bit like a Twoleg,” Hollyflower went on, 
sounding puzzled. 

Yellowfang gave the shape a closer scrutiny. “It 
doesn’t have legs,” she pointed out. 

“Tt’s got a head and a body,” Hollyflower countered. 


“And a Twoleg pelt on its head.” 

“It’s a Noleg, then,’ Yellowfang mewed impatiently. 
Honestly, who cares about weird Twoleg stuff? 

“I wonder what it’s like, being a_kittypet,” 
Hollyflower went on after a pause. “Do you suppose 
they can speak Twoleg? Do you think they go up and 
say, ‘Hey, it’s time for fresh-kill! I would love to have a 
vole today, and make sure it’s plump’?” 

“I doubt it,’ Yellowfang returned dryly. “Do you 
ever see Twolegs chasing voles in the forest?” 

“T guess not. Kittypets don’t have to catch their own 
prey, though. I think that’s really sad.” Hollyflower let 
out a sigh. “Never knowing what it’s like to stalk a 
squirrel ...” 

Remembering the kittypets she and Raggedpelt had 
met that night, Yellowfang was pretty sure that some 
of them would be able to catch their own prey. But she 
wasn’t about to say that to Hollyflower. 

“What do they do all day?” the gray-and-white she- 
cat went on. “They don’t hunt, they don’t train to fight, 
they must find it really hard to have a mate if they’re 
shut up in a Twoleg nest all day. They hardly seem like 
real cats at all.” 


“Russetpaw and Boulder are real cats,” Yellowfang 
pointed out. 

“Yeah, but they’re Clan now,” Hollyflower asserted 
with a flick of her ears. “I’d be surprised if they even 
remember living over here. At any rate,” she finished 
with satisfaction in her tone, “kittypets don’t matter. As 
long as they stay out of our territory.” 

Noticing that Crowtail and Newtspeck were padding 
up to the fence, Yellowfang leaped down to meet them, 
pleased to put an end to the awkward conversation 
with Hollyflower. As she landed, she spotted a hole at 
the base of the fence, where one of the strips of wood 
had rotted away. There was plenty of room for a cat to 
slip through. Instinctively she sniffed, and froze as she 
picked up the scent of kittypet. 

Fresh ... she thought. One or two cats have been 
through here—and not long ago, either. There was 
a mess of tracks around the hole, but the traces were 
too confused to tell Yellowfang anything useful. She 
wasn’t sure whether she ought to tell the others. /t will 
only cause trouble ... but then, we’re a border 
patrol. This is the sort of thing we’re looking for. 

Before she could make up her mind, she noticed that 


Newtspeck had picked up the scent too, raising her 
head with a suspicious gleam in her eyes. “Kittypets!” 
she hissed. 

Her neck fur bristling, she began searching along the 
base of the fence, trying to find the scent trail. 
Crowtail helped her, while Yellowfang stood still, 
flexing her claws, and Hollyflower watched intently 
from the top of the fence. 

“It’s no good,” Crowtail snarled eventually. “This 
StarClan-cursed snow is blotting out the scent.” 

“But kittypets have definitely been on this side of the 
fence,’ Newtspeck meowed, her neck fur still fluffed 
up and her tail lashing. “Trespassing on our territory 
again. This has to stop!” She crouched, bunched her 
muscles, and leaped up to the top of the fence beside 
Hollyflower, where she let out a challenging yowl. 
“Stay out of our territory, kittypets!” 

Yellowfang’s paws tingled with frustration. Why 
does Newtspeck have to go looking for a fight? 
Why cant we just leave one another alone? She 
wasn’t sure why she was so desperate not to 
encounter the Twolegplace cats, but she felt cold fear 
deep inside her, as agonizing as Nettlespot’s hunger. 


We mustn t fight! 

Newtspeck launched herself off the fence and 
vanished on the other side into the Twoleg garden. 
Yellowfang heard a hiss of pain from her, and in the 
same heartbeat felt a sharp stab in her shoulder. 

“Newtspeck, what happened?” she called. 

“Nothing!” the black-and-ginger she-cat called 
back. “I’m fine!” 

Yellowfang knew that wasn’t true. My shoulder 
feels like it’s on fire! “We have to make them come 
back,” she meowed to Hollyflower. “There’s no point 
in looking for trouble.” 

Hollyflower looked doubtful. “We need to teach 
those kittypets a lesson about invading our territory,” 
she insisted. 

Reluctantly Yellowfang scrambled back onto the 
fence and looked down at Newtspeck. The she-cat 
was holding one foreleg stiffly, but she said nothing; 
only the waves of pain flooding over Yellowfang told 
her that her Clanmate was badly hurt. Crowtail leaped 
up beside her and dropped down to join Newtspeck in 
the snow. Her ears twitched and her tail lashed as she 
gazed around. 


“Come out if you dare!” she called. “We’ll teach 
you to trespass on our territory!” 

A soft growl broke the silence that followed 
Crowtail’s challenge. Balancing awkwardly on the 
fence-top, Yellowfang turned to see a huge orange tom 
appearing around the side of the Twoleg den. 

Thats Marmalade! she realized, her belly lurching. 
All her instincts told her to leap down from the fence 
before he recognized her, but she knew she couldn’t 
abandon her Clanmates, especially when one of them 
was injured. 

Marmalade looked up at Yellowfang with baleful 
yellow eyes. “What are you doing here again?” he 
demanded. 

“What does he mean, ‘again’?” Crowtail’s voice 
was sharp. “Do you know a kittypet?” 

Yellowfang didn’t know how to reply. “Uh ... sort 
of,’ she admitted. “It’s not important. We’re just 
leaving,” she assured the ginger tom. 

“No, we’re not,’ Newtspeck hissed through her 
pain, fixing Marmalade with a fierce glare. “We’re 
here to tell you to stay out of our territory.” 

Marmalade snorted. “I don’t understand you wild 


cats and your so-called territories,’ he sneered. 
“We’re far freer on this side of the fence, because we 
can go wherever we want.” 

Kittypets are free? Yellowfang had never thought 
of that before. To her dismay, Hollyflower dropped 
down from the fence to join Newtspeck and Crowtail. 

Now shes joining in, Yellowfang thought 
helplessly. 7 just want to get out of here! 

“What do kittypets know about freedom?” 
Hollyflower hissed. “You don’t even catch your own 
food. Try asking Russetpaw and Boulder where they 
want to live, and see if they think kittypets are free!” 

“Russetpaw? Who’s that?” Marmalade asked. 

“You knew her as Red,” Hollyflower replied. 

Marmalade stiffened, his gaze fixed on Hollyflower. 
“You know where Red and Boulder are?” 

“They’re part of ShadowClan now.” Crowtail’s 
voice was full of triumph. “You won’t be seeing them 
again.” 

Yellowfang braced her muscles to jump down and 
help her Clanmates if Marmalade attacked. 

But the ginger tom just narrowed his eyes. “I see,” 
he mewed evenly. “Well, Pll let you go back to your 


territory now.” 

“Yowre not letting us do anything!” Hollyflower 
retorted, sliding out her claws. 

“Stop this!” Yellowfang called desperately from the 
fence-top. “He’s just a fat old kittypet. He’s not worth 
fighting. Leave him alone and get out of there.” She 
tried hard not to flinch as Marmalade turned his gaze 
onto her. She could almost hear his thoughts: Fat old 
kittypet, huh? Come down here and say that! 

“We’ve shown our strength,” Yellowfang persisted. 
“Now we need to get Newtspeck back to the camp.” 

“T’m fine!” Newtspeck protested. 

‘No, youre not,” Yellowfang hissed through the 
stabbing sensation in her shoulder. “Hollyflower, 
Crowtail, help her over the fence.” 

“I don’t need any help.” Newtspeck gave a single 
lash of her tail and leaped up the fence. Her paws 
scrabbled at the top and she fell down the other side, 
collapsing on the ground with a screech. 

“You stupid, stupid furball!” Yellowfang snapped. 
She could understand that Newtspeck didn’t want to 
show weakness in front of Marmalade, but the flaring 
agony in her shoulder told her that the she-cat had 


made her injury worse. 

Newtspeck struggled to get to her paws but she 
couldn’t put weight on her leg at all, and she slipped 
back onto her side in the snow. “Mouse dung!” she 
gasped. 

Crowtail and Hollyflower exchanged shocked 
glances; clearly they hadn’t known that Newtspeck 
was so seriously hurt. 

“Come on.” Yellowfang worked her shoulder 
underneath Newtspeck, and with her help the injured 
she-cat managed to stand. “Let’s get you home.” 

Hollyflower supported her on the other side, and 
they began struggling back to camp, with Crowtail 
keeping a lookout behind in case any kittypets tried to 
follow them. By the time they reached the entrance, 
Newtspeck was barely conscious, staggering along on 
three paws and leaning her weight on Yellowfang and 
Hollyflower. 

“Let’s get her to Sagewhisker,” Yellowfang panted; 
she was almost as exhausted as Newtspeck through 
the pain they shared. 

As they approached the medicine cat’s den, 
Hollyflower and Crowtail went to report to Stonetooth. 


Newtspeck collapsed on the moss, her injured leg 
stretched out. 

“What happened?” Sagewhisker asked, bending 
over to examine her. 

“She wrenched her shoulder jumping over a Twoleg 
fence,” Yellowfang replied. Anger still pulsed through 
her along with the hurt. “And then the mouse-brain had 
to make it worse by jumping out again.” 

“I couldn’t let you haul me out,’ Newtspeck 
murmured through clenched teeth. “Not with that 
kittypet watching.” 

“There was no need to go in there in the first place,” 
Yellowfang pointed out. 

“It’s a bad sprain,’ Sagewhisker commented, giving 
the injured leg a sniff. “Yellowfang, fetch me some 
elder leaves. And give them a good chew,” she added, 
as Yellowfang padded off to the hole where the herbs 
were kept. 

The clean tang of the elder leaves that filled her 
mouth made Yellowfang feel calmer, and the hurt 
began to ebb as Sagewhisker plastered the poultice 
onto Newtspeck’s leg. 

“Poppy seeds, Yellowfang,’ Sagewhisker murmured 


as she applied the chewed-up leaves. “Newtspeck, 
you'd better sleep here for now. You can go back to 
your den when you’ ve had a rest.” 

“Thanks, Sagewhisker,” Newtspeck murmured. 

Once her Clanmate was licking up the poppy seeds, 
Yellowfang slipped out of the den. Raggedpelt was 
pacing up and down outside. He whipped around to 
face her as she emerged. 

“I heard you saw a kittypet today,” he meowed. 
“Did it recognize you?” 

Yellowfang blinked. “Yes. It was Marmalade,” she 
admitted. “But he didn’t say anything about ... you 
know, Hal. There’s nothing to worry about.” 

Raggedpelt obviously didn’t agree; his neck fur was 
bristling and he slid his claws in and out. “I am not a 
kittypet! This is where I belong!” he hissed as he spun 
around. 

“Hey, wait!” Yellowfang bounded after him. “It’s 
okay. Calm down. Nothing happened.” 

Raggedpelt flicked his tail as if he were brushing 
away her words. “Leave me alone, can’t you?” he 
growled, picking up his pace until he was racing across 
the camp to vanish into the thorns. 


Yellowfang heaved a deep sigh as she stared after 
him. 

“Had a fight with your mate?” Rowanberry bounced 
up to her, a mischievous look in her eyes. 

Yellowfang bit back a snarl. “He’s not my mate!” 
she snapped. “We’re just friends.” 

Rowanberry rolled her eyes. “There’s no need to 
pretend,’ she meowed. “The whole Clan knows 
there’s something going on between you and 
Raggedpelt. I think he’s kind of cranky, but I guess 
he’s handsome ...” 

Yellowfang had no time for her sister’s nonsense. 
Without replying, she turned her back on Rowanberry 
and stalked away. 


Twilight was gathering in the clearing as Yellowfang 
returned at the head of a hunting patrol. She dropped 
her squirrel on the fresh-kill pile and glanced around. 
The camp was quiet; most of her Clanmates, she 
guessed, were already settling down to sleep. 

Archeye, Rowanberry, and Mousewing, the other 
members of her patrol, deposited their prey and headed 
for the warriors’ den. Feeling thirsty, Yellowfang 
padded toward the stream at the edge of the camp, her 


paws crunching on the snow. The stream was barely a 
trickle in the ice, and the water was so cold that when 
she lapped, her tongue felt as though it were burning. 

As Yellowfang raised her head and shook droplets 
from her whiskers, she heard the sound of a cat 
moving clumsily over twigs. Her ears pricked. 

Whats that? Apprentices slinking out? Or an 
elder having trouble walking? 

Yellowfang glanced around the edge of the camp, 
peering through the trees as she tried to work out 
where the sound was coming from. But before she 
could locate it, a yowl split the silent night air. Several 
cats exploded out of the shadows; the thorns and 
brambles that surrounded the camp crackled as they 
burst in. 

Scorchwind and Amberleaf, on guard by the tunnel 
entrance, leaped to their paws. “Intruders!” 
Scorchwind shrieked. 

For a heartbeat Yellowfang stood frozen. Then she 
recognized the muscular ginger tom who led the 
intruding cats. 

Its Marmalade! Great StarClan, these are the 
Twolegplace cats! 





CHAPTER 15 
w& 


“ 
Screeches battered Yellowfang’s ears as warriors 
charged from their den, flinging themselves on the 
attackers. 

Marmalade halted in the center of the clearing, his 
amber eyes glaring around. “Boulder! Red!” he 
yowled. “Where are you? We’ve come—” His 
caterwauling was cut off as Finchflight and Mudclaw 
leaped on top of him and he vanished in a flurry of 
furious teeth and claws. 

Yellowfang raced across the clearing to join her 
Clanmates, but before she reached them she felt claws 
digging into her shoulders as a cat landed on her back. 
She staggered under the weight and almost fell. 
Twisting her head around, she recognized the fluffy 
white kittypet, Pixie. 

For a moment Yellowfang was so shocked that she 
couldn’t remember any battle moves. Then she reared 
up on her hind paws and let herself fall backward. 
Pixie released her and scrambled away to avoid being 
squashed underneath her. Yellowfang jumped to her 


paws and sidestepped as the kittypet rushed at her 
again. Swipng at her with sheathed claws, she 
knocked the white she-cat over and pinned her down 
with both forepaws on her chest. 

“What’s all this about?” she demanded as Pixie 
writhed beneath her paws, spitting in fury. Shes 
stronger than I expected, Yellowfang thought, 
struggling to hold her down. 

“You stole our cats!” Pixie hissed, her green eyes 
blazing. 

“What do you mean?” Yellowfang asked, 
bewildered. 

But there was no answer. With one desperate 
heave, Pixie flung her off and vanished into the crowd 
of battling cats. More and more of them were pouring 
into the clearing, attacking the ShadowClan warriors 
with teeth and claws. As Yellowfang stared at the 
heaving, screeching mass, she realized that though her 
Clanmates were battle-trained, the kittypets had the 
advantage of surprise. 

Will we lose this fight? she wondered, appalled. 

She spotted Nutwhisker breaking free from a 
clawing knot of cats and staring around him with a look 


of utter shock. “These are kittypets!” he exclaimed. 

A rangy gray tabby aimed a blow at him. “We don’t 
all live with housefolk!” he snarled into Nutwhisker’s 
ear. “You aren’t the only ones who can hunt down 
prey.” 

Before he had finished speaking, Yellowfang was 
hurtling across the clearing to stand shoulder-to- 
shoulder with her littermate. The gray tabby took one 
look at the cats facing him, claws extended, and turned 
tail, vanishing into the shadows. 

“Get out of our camp!” Nutwhisker yowled, racing 
off in pursuit. 

Yellowfang followed, but two more rogues lunged 
between her and Nutwhisker, knocking her to the 
ground. All the breath was driven out of her. Half- 
stunned, she heard the pounding paw steps of another 
cat and turned to face a new enemy, only to spot 
Raggedpelt skidding to a halt beside her. He hauled her 
to her paws with his claws in her scruff. 

“Thanks!” she gasped. 

Raggedpelt’s eyes were haunted, and there was a 
horrified expression on his face. “What are these cats 
doing here?” he hissed. 


“I think they’re looking for Russetpaw and 
Boulder!” Yellowfang replied. If Hollyflower and 
Newtspeck hadnt tried to boast to Marmalade, this 
wouldn t be happening! 

Raggedpelt opened his jaws to reply, but a loud 
screech cut him off. 

“Help! Over here! The nursery!” 

Spinning around, Yellowfang saw Rowanberry and 
Mousewing in the entrance to the nursery, trying to 
fight off a whole cluster of Twolegplace cats. 

“They’re attacking the queens!” Raggedpelt 
growled as he sprang toward them. “These cats have 
no honor!” 

Yellowfang pelted after him, and the two warriors 
fell upon the intruders from behind. For several 
heartbeats Yellowfang struck out blindly, with three or 
four cats surrounding her; then she and her Clanmates 
forced the kittypets back into the open, away from the 
nursery entrance. Yellowfang glimpsed Raggedpelt 
chasing one of them into the bushes. 

A hard blow on her shoulder made her stagger; 
recovering, she found herself facing Marmalade. The 
ginger tom aimed another blow at her; Yellowfang 


ducked and raked her claws across his chest fur. With 
a snarl of fury Marmalade threw himself on top of her 
and the two cats grappled together, rolling over on the 
ground. 

“You have no right to keep Red and Boulder here!” 
Marmalade hissed into Yellowfang’s ear. 

“But they came of their own accord!” she 
protested. “They chose to stay!” 

Marmalade wasn’t paying any attention. Yellowfang 
knew she had to do something to stop the battle. 
Wriggling free from the ginger tom, knowing she left 
tufts of her gray pelt in his claws, she looked around 
frantically. “Cedarstar!” she yowled, tryng to make 
herself heard above the storm of battle. 

She spotted the Clan leader as he buffeted a rogue 
about the ears; the rogue turned and fled into the 
darkness at the edge of the camp. Yellowfang rushed 
across the clearing to intercept Cedarstar before he 
rejoined the battle. 

“Cedarstar!” she panted. “I know what’s going on!” 

The Clan leader’s claws gleamed in the starlight. 
“What do you mean?” he snapped. Yellowfang 
guessed that he hadn’t heard Marmalade’s yowl as he 


burst into the clearing. 

“When we were patrolling yesterday, we told a 
kittypet that Russetpaw and Boulder are living in 
ShadowClan. The kittypets think we’re keeping them 
imprisoned. They’ve come to get them back!” 

“That’s madness!” Cedarstar roared. 

Yellowfang nodded. “I know. But the kittypets 
don’t.” 

As she spoke, Marmalade staggered up, bleeding 
from several scratches but still on his paws. “We know 
Red and Boulder are here,” he growled. “Give them to 
us!” 

The Clan leader lashed his tail. “They’re not here. 
They’ re out on patrol. And they’re not prisoners.” 

Marmalade faced the Clan leader, his neck fur 
bristling. “So you say.” 

Yellowfang had to admire the big tom’s courage. 
“They won’t believe anything unless Russetpaw and 
Boulder tell them,” she meowed to Cedarstar. 

The Clan leader let out a snarl of anger and 
frustration. “Go and find them, then, and bring them 
back here. I know we can win this fight, but it’s better 
for the Clan if we end it quickly.” 


Yellowfang dipped her head and dashed off, skirting 
groups of grappling cats. The patrol wasn’t in sight 
when she emerged from the tunnel, but she knew the 
direction they would return and bounded off to meet 
them. Now that she had a moment to think, she was 
aware of stinging pain all over her body, and realized 
that she was feeling the wounds of every cat in the 
battle. Her head clouded with agony, and she blinked to 
clear it. 

We must finish this quickly! 

Suddenly new cat scents washed over Yellowfang. 
Rounding a fallen tree, she skidded to a halt as she 
saw Raggedpelt, Featherstorm, and Hal facing one 
another. All three cats were panting and wild-eyed, a 
terrible tension singing among them. 

“Tell me this cat isn’t my father,’ Raggedpelt 
growled at Featherstorm. 

His mother flicked her tail. “He gave up the right to 
be called that long ago. It was his decision.” 

Raggedpelt’s eyes widened as he stared at Hal. 
“You knew all along? But when I found you, you didn’t 
say anything!” 

Hal shrugged. “You want nothing to do with 


Twolegplace cats. I want nothing to do with the 
Clans.” 

“You have no idea what it was like, growing up 
without a father.” Raggedpelt’s words sounded as if he 
were being choked. “And now I find out that my father 
was a kittypet! Everything my Clanmates taunted me 
with is true!” 

Yellowfang felt her heart tear with sympathy for 
Raggedpelt, more painful than any wound. She took a 
pace toward him. “That doesn’t matter!” she told him. 
“Every cat knows that you are a ShadowClan 
warrior.” 

Raggedpelt rounded on her, his teeth bared. “Stay 
out of this,” he snarled. 

As Yellowfang gazed at him, unable to leave but not 
knowing what else she could say, the sounds of fighting 
drifted through the trees, screeches and the crackling 
of paws through undergrowth growing steadily nearer. 

“You should never have come here,” Featherstorm 
snapped at Hal, then bounded away toward the noise 
of battle. 

Raggedpelt turned to his father, stiff-legged with 
fury, his neck fur bristling and his tail bushed out to 


twice its size. “Leave now,” he ordered. “And never 
come back.” 

Hal gave his chest fur a slow, deliberate lick. “You 
can’t tell me what to do, son,” he drawled. 

“I am not your son!” Raggedpelt growled, taking a 
threatening step forward. “I am a ShadowClan 
warrior!” 

“A warrior with kittypet blood in your veins,” Hal 
taunted him. “Will your so-called Clanmates ever 
forget that?” 

With a roar of fury Raggedpelt sprang at him; his 
claws slashed across Hal’s throat. Yellowfang felt 
agony flash across her neck and through all her body, 
and for a heartbeat the snow-covered forest turned 
black in her eyes. 

When she recovered, panting and blinking, she saw 
Hal’s body lying limp on the ground with a great gush 
of scarlet blood flowing from his throat, staining the 
snow. “You killed him!” she gasped, staring in horror. 

“He should have left when he had the chance,” 
Raggedpelt snarled. 

“But he was your father!” Yellowfang protested. 

Raggedpelt turned to face her. Yellowfang could see 


her own horror reflected in his eyes, but his voice was 
cold. “He was nothing but a useless kittypet.” 

Before Yellowfang could say more, new cat scent 
drifted over her. Russetpaw and Boulder emerged 
through the trees along with Frogtail and Deerleap. 

“What’s going on?” Boulder demanded. 

“Marmalade and the kittypets are attacking our 
camp,” Yellowfang explained. “They think we’re 
keeping you as prisoners.” 

As she spoke, Russetpaw spotted Hal’s body and 
bounded forward to stand over him, looking down at 
him in dismay. “What happened?” she gasped, her 
voice shaking. 

“He tried to attack Yellowfang,” Raggedpelt replied. 
“T had no choice.” 

Russetpaw and Boulder exchanged a horrified 
glance. Yellowfang opened her jaws to contradict 
Raggedpelt’s lie, then picked up his amber glare and 
knew there was nothing she could say that wouldn’t 
make everything worse. 

“But the warrior code says ...” Boulder began. 

“This cat wasn’t part of the warrior code,” 
Raggedpelt interrupted. “Now come back to camp and 


tell the rest of these wretched cats that you don’t need 
rescuing.” 

He set off toward the camp at a run. Boulder 
hesitated for a moment, then followed. Frogtail and 
Deerleap bounded after them. 

Russetpaw remained standing over Hal’s body, 
gazing down at him with grief in her eyes. 

Yellowfang padded up to her and gave her a gentle 
nudge. “We have to go.” 

“He was my father,” Russetpaw whispered. 

Oh, StarClan. Yellowfang hoped that the young 
she-cat never learned that Hal was Raggedpelt’s 
father too. At least there are other broad-shouldered 
dark tabbies in the Clan who Russetpaw might 
assume to be Raggedpelt’s father. 

Yellowfang gave Russetpaw another nudge and 
padded beside her until they reached the camp. 
Looking around, Yellowfang saw that although one or 
two skirmishes were still going on, most of the kittypets 
had surrendered. Clan cats stood over them, their 
flanks heaving and blood dripping from their scratches. 

Cedarstar was standing in the center of the clearing. 
“Here are Russetpaw and Boulder.” His eyes gleamed 


as he beckoned the two young cats with his tail. “Let 
them step forward.” 

Russetpaw and Boulder padded up to their Clan 
leader, a mixture of embarrassment and horror in their 
faces as they looked around at the battle-torn cats. 

Cedarstar angled his ears toward Marmalade. “Tell 
this cat why you are here,” he commanded. 

“We wanted to see what life was like in the forest,” 
Boulder began, raising his head confidently. “And we 
think it’s good.” 

“We chose to stay,” Russetpaw added, ducking her 
head at Marmalade. “They’re not keeping us 
prisoners.” 

Marmalade’s mouth fell open. 

Pixie bounded up to his side, her eyes wide with 
astonishment. “How can you prefer to live with these 
wild, cruel creatures?” she demanded. “We came to 
rescue you!” 

“Cruel?” There was an edge to Cedarstar’s voice. 
“We aren’t the cats who attacked. If you had come 
here peacefully and asked, there would have been no 
need for bloodshed.” 

“It was Hal’s idea,’ Marmalade admitted. “He 


refused to give up on you, Red. Where is he, by the 
way?” he added, glancing around. 

“He’s dead,” Russetpaw choked out. 

Marmalade and Pixie exchanged a horrified glance. 
Yellowfang heard a gasp from Featherstorm, too. 
Glancing at her, she saw nothing that suggested grief 
or shock in her expression, but Yellowfang guessed 
that the she-cat was not as indifferent as she liked to 
pretend. 

“He had to die,’ Raggedpelt growled. “He was 
attacking Yellowfang.” 

“You may take his body away,’ Cedarstar told 
Marmalade. “Leave our territory and stay out of it. We 
have treated you gently this time, believe me.” 

Marmalade let out an angry hiss, but he turned to 
leave. 

Pixie padded up to Russetpaw and Boulder. “If you 
ever change your mind, you'll always be welcome to 
come back.” 

“Thank you,” Boulder replied, dipping his head. “But 
we’re warriors now.” 

Pixie shook her head sadly. “Hal paid for this with 
his life,” she mewed. “And it was all for nothing.” 


“He was very brave,” Russetpaw murmured, her 
eyes still full of grief. “We won’t forget him, I 
promise.” 

Yellowfang looked around for Raggedpelt, who had 
retreated to lurk at the edge of the clearing. J bet 
there 5 one cat who'll try his hardest to forget him, 
she thought. 





CHAPTER 16 
w& 


“ 

Yellowfang crept across the marsh, her pads sore 
from treading on rock-hard mud and ice-rimmed 
tussocks of grass. Though the snow had melted, the air 
was still bitterly cold, and Yellowfang’s breath puffed 
out in a cloud. Reeds poked up at the edge of frozen 
pools, the rattle of their feathery tops the only thing 
that broke the silence. There was no sound or scent of 
prey. 

A moon had passed since the kittypet attack, and 
though the Clan cats’ wounds had healed, their 
strength hadn’t returned. It seemed as if leaf-bare 
would go on forever. Every cat was hungry all the 
time. Yellowfang could feel the bones jutting through 
her fur, and she couldn’t sleep at night because she felt 
the pangs of hunger in the bellies of her Clanmates. 

We hunt all the time, day and night. And we still 
cant find enough to eat. What’s going to happen to 
us? 

She paused, watching Raggedpelt, who was padding 
along softly a few tail-lengths ahead of her. After a 


moment he stopped, his ears pricked to listen. 
Yellowfang slid toward him, following his gaze to a 
clump of grass about halfway between them. As she 
drew closer she heard a faint scratching among the 
brittle stems, and picked up the scent of a shrew. 

Raggedpelt signaled to Yellowfang with his tail, then 
leaped at the clump of grass, swiping it with his 
forepaws. The shrew panicked and scuttled into the 
open, heading straight for Yellowfang. She dropped 
swiftly into the hunter’s crouch, but as she pounced 
one of her hind paws slipped on a patch of ice and she 
stumbled, landing awkwardly a taillength away from 
her prey. Raggedpelt bounded forward, but he was too 
late. The shrew darted off, taking refuge in a tangle of 
scrubby thorns. 

“Fox dung!” the tabby tom snarled. “Yellowfang, if 
that’s the best you can do, you’d better go back to 
camp.” 

‘Don’t be ridiculous,” Yellowfang snapped back at 
him. “Have you never lost a piece of prey? You know 
we have to keep hunting.” 

Raggedpelt snorted, but said no more. As he and 
Yellowfang turned back toward the trees, Russetpaw 


and her mentor, Featherstorm, emerged from the 
shadow of the branches, heading toward the camp. 
Yellowfang bounded forward to meet them; as she 
drew closer she saw that Russetpaw was carrying a 
crow, her ears sticking up from behind a jumble of 
black feathers. 

“You’ve managed to catch something!” Yellowfang 
meowed. “That’s great! There’s not so much as a 
mouse stirring out on the marshes.” 

“Russetpaw found it,” Featherstorm responded, with 
an approving look at her apprentice. 

Russetpaw’s eyes shone with pride, though 
Yellowfang noticed that Raggedpelt was bristling with 
a scowl on his face. 

“The Clan will be pleased,’ Yellowfang mewed, 
walking away. “We’ll see you later.” When 
Featherstorm and her apprentice were out of earshot, 
she turned to Raggedpelt. “There’s nothing wrong with 
Featherstorm praising Russetpaw. She deserved it.” 

Raggedpelt sniffed. “That crow was a mangy old 
thing,” he muttered. 

Impatience welled up inside Yellowfang and she let 
it spill over. “I’ve had enough of the way you always 


treat Russetpaw like a heap of mouse droppings,” she 
hissed. “It’s not her fault that Hal was her father, too. 
You have to find a way to deal with it. She’s not just 
your Clanmate, she’s your sister!” 

Raggedpelt halted and stared at her. Too late, 
Yellowfang remembered that on the night of the battle 
he had headed for the camp with Boulder before 
Russetpaw had revealed that she was Hal’s daughter. 

So? It wont hurt him to face up to the truth. 

“Don’t ever say that again!” Raggedpelt growled 
with a lash of his tail. “I have no father. Russetpaw is 
nothing to me.” He turned his back on her, then 
glanced over his shoulder to add, “You’re lucky I was 
there to defend you when he started to attack. You 
didn’t stand a chance.” 

Yellowfang felt her neck fur rise in shock. That’s 
not how it happened! But she knew there was no 
point in trying to make Raggedpelt see reason. He was 
too desperate to distance himself from Twolegplace 
and the cats who lived there. 

Raggedpelt began to stalk away, then stopped, 
angling his ears toward a nearby clump of reeds. 
Easing her way around the stalks, Yellowfang spotted 


a blackbird pecking at the ground with its back to her. 
Paw step by paw step she crept up on it, while 
Raggedpelt edged forward on the other side. 

StarClan! Dont let me miss this one. Yellowfang 
prayed as she dropped into a crouch. Leaping forward, 
she felt her claws sink into the bird as it fluttered up, 
then went limp between her paws. 

“Great catch!” Raggedpelt exclaimed, padding up. 
His eyes gleamed; his bad temper had vanished. He 
bent to sniff the prey, then added, “I wonder when 
we'll get our first apprentices. We must be ready to be 
mentors by now.” 

“Sure we are,” Yellowfang responded. “But it might 
be a while. There’s only Cloudkit in the nursery.” 

Raggedpelt nodded. “I want us to be mentors 
together.” He fixed his warm amber gaze on 
Yellowfang. “Wouldn’t it be great if I was leader and 
you were my deputy?” He paused, and Yellowfang 
caught a flash of uncertainty in his eyes. “That is, if 
you want to be with me,” he added. 

Yellowfang blinked up at his handsome face and 
troubled eyes. She wished he could always be open to 
her like this, that he could curb his temper and his 


occasional obstinate silences. But what must it have 
been like, growing up without knowing who his father 
was? And then to discover that his father was a 
kittypet who wanted nothing to do with him? If 
Raggedpelt was angry sometimes, or reluctant to talk, 
wasn’t that understandable? “Of course I want to be 
with you,” she whispered. 

Raggedpelt gave her ear a quick lick. “I’m glad. 
Now let’s take your prey back to camp,” he mewed. 

Several cats clustered around them as Yellowfang 
dropped her blackbird onto the pitifully small fresh-kill 
pile. 

“Good job, Yellowfang,’ Deerleap murmured, 
making Yellowfang feel warm with pride at the praise 
from her former mentor. A few more cats 
congratulated her, too, though she noticed that others 
turned away with disappointed sniffs. 

“Just a scrawny blackbird,’ she heard Foxheart 
complain. “What use is that to any cat?” 

Yellowfang ignored her. Since she had entered the 
camp a strange feeling was creeping over her: a 
tingling beneath her pelt, as if she was hot and cold at 
the same time. What's the matter with me now? 


Leaving the cats beside the fresh-kill pile, 
Yellowfang tried to figure out where the feelng was 
coming from. Her paws carried her to the elders’ den; 
thrusting her head inside she saw Littlebird tossing 
restlessly in her nest. Her eyes were glazed and she 
was muttering something under her breath. 

Oh, no! I’m picking up Littlebird’s fever! 

Yellowfang raced across the camp to get 
Sagewhisker. “Come quickly!” she panted as she slid 
between the two boulders that formed the entrance to 
the medicine cat’s den. “Littlebird has a fever.” 

Sagewhisker looked up from where she was 
counting dock leaves. “Okay, fetch the herbs she 
needs,” she prompted. 

“What?” Shock struck Yellowfang like a badger’s 
paw. “Sagewhisker, have you got bees in your brain? 
I’m not a medicine cat! I’d give Littlebird the wrong 
thing. I might even kill her!” 

Sagewhisker hesitated for a heartbeat more, then 
shrugged and headed for the holes where she stored 
her herbs. Yellowfang could see how far down she had 
to reach to retrieve a few shriveled borage leaves. The 
store must be almost empty. Yellowfang felt her fur 


bristle with fear. There are so few herbs left, and it’s 
too cold for fresh plants to grow. What will we do, 
with our cats starving and getting sick? 

Sagewhisker turned around with her mouth full of 
herbs. Nodding to Yellowfang, she padded out of the 
den. As the medicine cat bounded across the clearing, 
she passed Raggedpelt, who stood in the middle of the 
camp looking around. Yellowfang trotted over to him. 

“There you are!” he exclaimed. “I’ve been 
searching everywhere for you. I thought we’d do some 
battle training with Foxheart and Wolfstep.” He flicked 
his tail toward the two young warriors who were 
waiting eagerly behind him. 

Between her hunger and the sensations of 
Littlebird’s fever, Yellowfang knew she wouldn’t be 
able to concentrate on practicing battle skills. “No, 
thanks,” she replied. “I’m going out hunting again.” 

“Oh, come on,” Raggedpelt insisted. “We hunted all 
morning.” 

Anger flared up inside Yellowfang. “Fight moves 
aren’t going to fill our bellies,’ she growled. “The Clan 
needs to find food, not prepare for battles that might 
not even happen! All the other Clans are too busy 


trying to fill their bellies to have time to attack us.” 

Raggedpelt took a step back, confusion in his eyes. 
“T thought you wanted to be the best warrior you can 
be,” he protested. “Let the apprentices hunt. We can’t 
ignore battle training just because they can’t find 
enough for us to eat.” 

Yellowfang opened her mouth to argue. Since when 
has it been the job of the apprentices to feed the 
entire Clan? Especially now, when there’ so little 
prey to be found. 

“Leave her, Raggedpelt.” Foxheart pushed up close 
to Raggedpelt’s shoulder. “PI get Lizardstripe to come 
with us.” 

Raggedpelt nodded; then with a cold look at 
Yellowfang he turned his back on her and headed 
across the camp toward the tunnel. For a couple of 
heartbeats Yellowfang stared after him. Okay, 1 
understand why he behaves the way he does, but 
that doesnt mean I have to like it! With an angry 
shrug, she went to look for Stonetooth. P'U ask him to 
send me on another hunting patrol. 

Yellowfang found the Clan deputy talking to 
Cedarstar in the leader’s den among the roots of the 


big oak tree. As she padded up, she noticed that both 
cats looked far older than their seasons. They were as 
skinny as foxes, their muzzles gray with age, their 
bodies curled together on the damp moss. 

They dont look like the leaders of a strong and 
powerful Clan. They need newleaf to come, and 
more prey to fill their bellies. 

Pausing at the entrance to the den, Yellowfang 
dipped her head. Cedarstar roused at the sight of her. 
“What is it, Yellowfang?” 

“I really wanted to speak to Stonetooth,” Yellowfang 
admitted. “Is there a hunting patrol I could join?” 

It was Cedarstar who replied, his voice approving. 
“Youre working hard, Yellowfang. Make sure you get 
something to eat before you go out again.” 

Stonetooth nodded. “Deerleap is going to lead a 
patrol with Toadskip and Ashheart,’ he meowed, 
angling his ears toward the fresh-kill pile, where the 
cats he had named were eating hurriedly. “You can go 
with them.” 

“Thanks!” 

Yellowfang dashed off, reported to Deerleap, and 
grabbed a rather puny shrew from the fresh-kill pile. 


She was gulping down the last mouthful when 
Deerleap led the patrol out through the tunnel. The 
forest still seemed empty of prey. Toadskip caught a 
mouse that popped up from some roots almost under 
his nose, but that was all they saw until the walls of the 
Twolegplace appeared through the trees. 

“I hope we don’t go too close,’ Ashheart 
murmured; she and Yellowfang had dropped slightly 
behind the others. “I don’t want to meet any kittypets. 
They were crazy to attack like that!” 

“They won’t bother us if we stay out of their way,” 
Yellowfang responded. “Especially now that they 
realize we didn’t steal Russetpaw and Boulder.” 

Ashheart looked unconvinced. “Who knows what 
kittypets will do? It’s not like they have a warrior 
code.” She glanced around, flexing her claws as if she 
expected a battle-hungry kittypet to explode out of the 
undergrowth. “What was it like when you had to face 
that big kittypet tom?” she continued. “Were you really 
scared? Did Raggedpelt save your life?” 

Yellowfang didn’t know how to reply. She didn’t 
want to bolster Raggedpelt’s lie, but she couldn’t give 
him away to other cats. “I guess ...” she mumbled. “It 


all happened so fast.” 

“The kittypets fought better than I’d expected,” 
Ashheart went on; Yellowfang was relieved that she 
didn’t probe any further into Hal’s death. “But it’s not 
like they’ve had warrior training. Which of our battle 
moves do you think worked best against them?” 

At that moment Yellowfang realized that Deerleap 
had turned back and was padding toward them. 

“We’re supposed to be hunting, in case you hadn’t 
noticed,” the older she-cat rasped. “And here you are, 
chattering like a pair of starlings.” 

“Sorry, Deerleap,” Yellowfang mewed. 

“I should think so. Yellowfang, you see what you 
can find in that bramble thicket. Ashheart, try that 
bracken over there. Honestly, I shouldn’t have to split 
you up like a couple of apprentices before you do any 
work.” 

Her pelt hot with shame, Yellowfang headed for the 
brambles. Parting her jaws to taste the air, she picked 
up the faint trace of something green and growing. 
Following the scent trail, Yellowfang came to a piece 
of bark lying at the edge of the thicket. Turning it over 
with one paw, she discovered a few stems of coltsfoot, 


the bright yellow petals just beginning to show in the 
green buds. The bark and the brambles must have 
sheltered them from the worst of the icy weather. 

Coltsfoot—thats good for coughs, Yellowfang 
thought with satisfaction. Carefully she nipped off the 
stems with her teeth and carried them away from the 
brambles. Looking up, she saw that Toadskip and 
Deerleap were watching her with puzzled expressions. 

“You’re supposed to be hunting things we can eat,” 
Toadskip pointed out. 

“But Sagewhisker needs these!”  Yellowfang 
protested around the mouthful of stems. 

Deerleap nodded. “I suppose you’re right. Leave 
them on the ground now, while you look for prey.” 

“Sorry, I can’t,’ Yellowfang apologized. “If I put 
them on the ground they’ll wither and freeze. I need to 
take them back to Sagewhisker right away.” 

Deerleap and Toadskip exchanged a glance. “For 
StarClan’s sake!” Toadskip muttered. 

“You'd better go, then,’ Deerleap meowed after a 
moment’s pause. “But be as quick as you can, and 
come right back.” 

Yellowfang nodded and bounded off in the direction 


of the camp. Hope soared inside her. Herbs are 
beginning to grow again. Newleaf can t be far off! 

As she approached the camp, she spotted 
Raggedpelt and Foxheart standing with jaws parted as 
if they were trying to pick up a scent. 

Are they hunting after all? Yellowfang wondered, 
annoyed after Raggedpelt had made such a fuss about 
battle training. 

“I can scent Lizardstripe,’ Raggedpelt mewed as 
Yellowfang approached. “I think she’s hiding in that 
hazel thicket.” 

“You’re such a great tracker, Raggedpelt,’” Foxheart 
gushed. “Let’s see if we can creep up on her without 
her hearing us.” 

Side by side the two warriors crept through the 
grass, only to halt as Yellowfang padded up. 

“Herbs?” Raggedpelt asked, staring at Yellowfang’s 
mouthful. “Weren’t you supposed to be hunting?” 

Yellowfang rested her bundle carefully on one of her 
paws. “Sagewhisker needs these,” she mewed. 

Raggedpelt rolled his eyes. “Then Sagewhisker 
should ask the apprentices to gather them for her, not 
warriors!” 


“It’s not like it’s hard,” Foxheart put in. 

“Its a warrior’s duty to care for the Clan,” 
Yellowfang snapped. “That means collecting herbs as 
well as hunting for food and fighting.” 

“No, it doesn’t.” Raggedpelt’s tail-tip twitched. 
“You’re not a medicine cat, so sick Clanmates are not 
your responsibility. Any cat would think you didn’t 
want to be a warrior.” 

“Of course I want to be a warrior,’ Yellowfang 
retorted. 

“Then let me know when you want to start battle 
training again,” Raggedpelt meowed, brushing past her. 
“Hey, Lizardstripe, come on out! We know you're in 
there!” 

Yellowfang headed into the camp, wincing at the 
wall of pain and hunger that hit her as soon as she 
emerged from the tunnel. J wish I could tell 
Raggedpelt how I feel when my Clanmates are in 
pain. But I know he would never understand. She 
sighed. J didnt ask for this! I just want to be a 
warrior! 





CHAPTER 17 
I% 


„5 

Yellowfang woke with a jerk and realized she 
couldn’t breathe. StarClan, help me! She scrabbled 
with her paws, trying to push away the moss that she 
thought was suffocating her. But her feet closed on 
empty air. There was no moss on top of her. She 
opened her eyes and looked around the den. All the 
other warriors were sleeping, their flanks rising and 
falling gently as they breathed. 

By now, each wheezing gasp of air took a massive 
effort. Yellowfang stumbled to her paws and staggered 
out of the den, barely managing to avoid Nutwhisker, 
who was curled up in his nest. Cold gripped her as she 
emerged into the clearing, as if claws of ice were 
sinking deep into her pelt. The stars glittered in a clear, 
black sky. Nothing stirred in the camp, but Yellowfang 
could hear the murmuring of voices coming from the 
elders’ den. 

Still struggling to breathe, Yellowfang limped across 
the clearing. As she approached the den, she could 
hear the same rasping breaths, and Lizardfang’s voice 


meowing, “You can’t go on like this, Littlebird. You 
need Sagewhisker.” 

Yellowfang glanced into the den and saw Littlebird 
lying in the moss, her chest heaving as she fought to 
breathe. Lizardfang was looking on helplessly while he 
stroked Littlebird’s shoulder with one paw. 

“TI fetch Sagewhisker,” Yellowfang meowed. 

When Yellowfang reached the medicine cat’s den, 
Sagewhisker was curled up in her nest, so deeply 
asleep that it took several heartbeats to wake her. 
Yellowfang guessed that she was exhausted from 
caring for all the cats who had fallen ill from cold and 
hunger. Once she roused, she blinked up at Yellowfang 
in confusion. “Wha’?” 

Growing impatient, Yellowfang crossed the den to 
the holes where the herbs were stored and pushed 
back the ferns that covered them. The coltsfoot she 
had gathered two sunrises ago had already been used, 
but she found a few withered juniper berries at the 
bottom of one hole. 

Snagging a single berry on her claw, Yellowfang 
took it to Sagewhisker and thrust it under her nose. 
“Tittlebird can’t breathe,’ she told the medicine cat. 


“This will help, right?” 

Sagewhisker nodded wearily. “Call me if there’s a 
problem,” she murmured. 

Yellowfang blinked, surprised by the medicine cat’s 
confidence in her. Hey, I’m not your apprentice! she 
thought, then shrugged and padded out with the berry. 

Lizardfang looked up in alarm when Yellowfang 
pushed her way back into the elders’ den. “Why didn’t 
Sagewhisker come?” he meowed. “Is she okay?” 

“She’s fine,’ Yellowfang told him. “I’m just helping 
out. Come on, Littlebird, Sagewhisker sent you this 
juniper berry. It’ll help you breathe.” 

Littlebird took the berry from Yellowfang’s claw, 
chewed feebly, and managed to swallow it. Then she 
flopped back down and closed her eyes. To 
Yellowfang’s relief the tightness in her own chest 
began to relax. 

“Look, Lizardfang,’ Yellowfang suggested, “if we 
build the moss up a bit on this side, Littlebird can be 
more upright while she rests. It should help her to 
breathe more easily.” 

Lizardfang hoisted Littlebird while Yellowfang built 
up a mound of moss underneath the elder’s shoulders. 


The sick cat let out a sigh; already her breathing was 
starting to improve. “Thank you,” she murmured. 

Lizardfang curled up beside Littlebird to keep her 
warm, and Yellowfang headed back to Sagewhisker’s 
den. Her own breathing had eased along with 
Littlebird’s. 

The medicine cat was still awake, and halfway sat 
up as Yellowfang slipped between the boulders. “How 
is she?” 

“Better,” Yellowfang replied. “I don’t think you need 
to see her tonight.” 

Sagewhisker nodded. “Thanks, Yellowfang. P1 look 
in on her at dawn.” 

Thrusting her way back into the warriors’ den, 
Yellowfang noticed that Raggedpelt was awake, his 
amber eyes glowing in the darkness. “Where have you 
been?” he whispered. 

“Helping Littlebird,’ Yellowfang responded, weaving 
her way among the sleeping cats to reach her nest. 
“She couldn’t breathe, so I fetched a juniper berry for 
her.” 

Raggedpelt’s eyes narrowed. “That’s Sagewhisker’s 
responsibility, not yours.” 


Relieved that he hadn’t asked her how she knew 
Littlebrrd needed help, Yellowfang meowed, “I just 
don’t want to let my Clanmates suffer, okay?” 

Raggedpelt let out a snort that was half-annoyed, 
half-amused. “I said we’d be leader and deputy, not 
leader and medicine cat!” 

He beckoned with his tail, and Yellowfang curled up 
beside him, their pelts pressed together against the 
cold. This is good, Yellowfang thought drowsily as she 
sank into sleep. Z wish we could always be like this. 


The full moon floated high above the ShadowClan 
camp. Yellowfang hadn’t been chosen to go to the 
Gathering, but she couldn’t sleep until she found out 
what had happened there. She sat in the warriors’ den, 
paws tucked under her, until she heard the sound of 
paws racing across the packed earth floor of the 
camp. Raggedpelt was the first cat to appear, thrusting 
his broad shoulders through the outer branches of the 
den. 

“Any news?” Yellowfang asked, springing up. 

Raggedpelt’s expression was grim. “All the Clans 
looked better fed than us,” he reported, his lips drawn 
back in the beginning of a snarl. “And Heatherstar of 


WindClan told this ridiculous story about picking up 
ShadowClan scent on their territory.” 

“That’s completely unfair!” Yellowfang meowed 
indignantly. “No cat has been over there.” 

“I know that, but WindClan won’t believe it.” 
Raggedpelt gave his whiskers a disgusted twitch. “And 
that’s not al. Featherwhisker, the ThunderClan 
medicine cat, was asking Foxheart and Russetpaw 
some very odd questions.” 

“What sort of questions?” 

“Oh, is everything okay in ShadowClan ... that sort 
of thing.” 

Yellowfang was puzzled. “But Featherwhisker must 
have seen Sagewhisker at the half-moon ... why does 
he need to ask questions at a Gathering? Unless he 
was concerned that all our warriors look so thin.” 

Raggedpelt snorted. “Medicine cats should keep 
their noses where they belong!” 

“I’m sure it’s nothing to worry about,” Yellowfang 
soothed him, resting her tail-tip on his shoulder. 

By now more cats were pushing their way into the 
den. Foxheart scampered past, her paws scattering 
moss, with Lizardstripe just behind her. She halted 


when she saw Yellowfang. “Did you stay behind to go 
hunting for herbs?” she teased. 

“Yeah, it must be really hard to track down leaves,” 
Lizardstripe added. 

The two she-cats exchanged a glance and let out a 
mrrow of mocking laughter. 

Yellowfang rolled her eyes, but didn’t bother to 
reply. 

“You know, they have a point,” Raggedpelt mewed 
when Foxheart and Lizardstripe had gone on to their 
nests. “You spend too much time helping Sagewhisker 
when you should be doing warrior duties.” 

Yellowfang bristled. “You’re not Clan leader; don’t 
tell me what to do,” she muttered, turning her back on 
Raggedpett. 

She felt Raggedpelt’s warm breath on the back of 
her neck. “I’m not teling you what to do,’ he 
murmured. “It’s just a suggestion, okay? You’re a 
warrior, not a medicine cat. I know that, you know 
that, you just need to make sure that it’s clear to the 
rest of the Clan, too.” 


Yellowfang stepped forward, dipping her head to the 
Clan leader. “I’d like to join a hunting patrol, please, 


Cedarstar.” 

It was the morning after the Gathering. Cedarstar 
and Stonetooth were organizing the first patrols. The 
air was still icy cold but the sun gleamed in a pale blue 
sky, and somewhere high above, a bird was twittering. 
Yellowfang’s heart rose at the prospect of prey. 

“Fine, Yellowfang,’ Cedarstar meowed. “You can 
go with Archeye, Wolfstep, and Amberleaf.” 

As Yellowfang padded over to join them, she caught 
a look of approval from Raggedpelt. He was leading a 
different patrol with Blizzardwing, Brackenfoot, and 
Newtspeck. Though she was disappointed that she 
couldn’t hunt with him, Yellowfang felt satisfied. 

At least now he cant say I dont do warrior 
duties! 

Archeye took the lead as the patrol headed out of 
the camp and across the icebound marsh. “I think we’ ll 
try the edges of the Thunderpath today,’ he 
announced. “No cat has hunted there for a few days.” 

Yellowfang and the others followed him until they 
approached the place where the tunnel led underneath 
the Thunderpath. The moorland of WindClan swelled 
on the far side, outlined sharply against the sky. 


Archeye halted and stared at the hills with narrowed 
eyes. “I can’t believe what Heatherstar said at the 
Gathering last night. She accused us of trespassing!” 

Amberleaf flicked her tail. “Let her talk. WindClan 
cats are all meow and no claws.” 

Yellowfang wasn’t so sure. She sniffed around the 
nearby clumps of grass for any signs of fresh herbs 
and prey. Suddenly she froze. She had picked up a 
different scent, not one she had hoped for. “Wait!” she 
called to the patrol, who were starting to move off 
again. “We may have intruders. WindClan intruders.” 

Archeye spun around. “Where?” 

Yellowfang beckoned with a flick of her ears, and 
her Clanmates came to sniff the clump where she had 
detected the WindClan tang. 

“That’s them all right,’ Amberleaf confirmed with a 
brisk nod. “And it’s fresh.” 

“See if you can pick up the trail?” Archeye mewed 
softly. “And keep quiet. They may still be around.” 

All three cats began to cast back and forth, jaws 
parted to taste the air. Wolfstep was the first to pick up 
further traces of the invaders. He signaled with his tail, 
and Archeye took the lead again, following the scent 


trail. 

How dare those mangy WindClan cats cross our 
border? Yellowfang thought. They accuse us of 
trespassing, and then they set their filthy paws on 
our territory! 

The trail led toward the underground tunnels. But 
before they reached the edge of the Thunderpath, the 
patrol rounded a spindly thicket of birches and came 
upon four cats, confidently surveying ShadowClan 
territory. Yellowfang recognized them from previous 
Gatherings: Dawnstripe and the young warrior Talltail, 
and a tom called Redclaw with his apprentice, 
Shrewpaw. 

“What in the name of StarClan are you doing here?” 
Archeye demanded. 

All four WindClan cats jumped at the sound of his 
voice, and whipped around to face the ShadowClan 
patrol. Yellowfang saw a flash of guilt in their faces, 
which vanished almost at once to be replaced with 
defiance. 

Dawnstripe stepped forward. “ShadowClan scent 
has been found on WindClan territory,” she asserted. 

“That’s not true!” Archeye’s voice was furious, and 


his neck fur began to bristle. 

Yellowfang moved forward to stand at Archeye’s 
shoulder. Out of the corner of her eye, she could see 
his ribs jutting through his patchy gray coat. Cant the 
WindClan cats see we're all so weak that we can 
barely make it to the edge of our own territory? 

“Even if we had trespassed on your territory,” 
Amberleaf meowed, “which we didn’t, that doesn’t 
give you the right to be over here.” She took a 
threatening step toward the intruders. “Get out now.” 

“Oh, can’t we stay and have a look around?” 
Shrewpaw asked, his voice full of mock 
disappointment. “These skinny creatures aren’t going 
to be able to stop us.” 

Without saying a word, Yellowfang and her 
Clanmates stepped into a battle line. A lightning bolt of 
anger sliced through Yellowfang. ShadowClan is 
strong! How dare WindClan cats talk to us like 
this? 

“Look,” Archeye began, “you know you’re in the 
wrong. Leave now, and we can avoid a fight.” 

The WindClan cats didn’t move. Yellowfang felt 
tension tingling through her body from her ears to tail- 


tip, and she flexed her claws. 

“And if we don’t?” Redclaw sneered. “Are you 
going to eat us?” 

Archeye let out a screech and leaped straight at the 
WindClan tom. The rest of the cats were no more than 
a heartbeat behind. But as the two toms clashed, 
Yellowfang felt a jolt of pain deep in her bones; she 
staggered, almost losing her balance. Talltail loomed 
over her, and Yellowfang struggled to get into the right 
position to defend herself. Beside her she caught a 
glimpse of Amberleaf with blood welling from a deep 
scratch along her flank. Then Dawnstripe leaped at 
her again with blood on her claws and Yellowfang 
shrieked with pain. She collapsed on the ground, her 
mind filled with visions of fur being shredded and blood 
gurgling in her throat, choking her. She felt Talltail’s 
claws slicing through her pelt to the flesh below, but 
she could only beat her paws at him feebly as if she 
were a frightened kit. 

“Back off, Taltai.” Dawnstripe’s voice reached 
Yellowfang through the fog of pain. “We’ve done 
enough. That will teach these mangy cats not to 
trespass on WindClan territory.” 


Yellowfang was too battered to speak. Beyond the 
pain, all she could think was that the WindClan cats 
were going to get away with invading ShadowClan. 
Then the thundering of paws beat at her ears, getting 
louder and louder. She was conscious of cats leaping 
past her, and caught a whiff of Raggedpelt’s scent. 
The other patrol is here! she realized, beginning to 
shake with relief. Blinking away the darkness that was 
trying to suck her away, Yellowfang raised her head to 
see Raggedpelt facing the WindClan cats. 

“Get out!” he snarled. “If you think you can come 
here and attack our cats, you can think again. My 
claws will show you that you’re wrong.” 

“Easy enough to say,” Dawnstripe growled. 

But Yellowfang saw that the WindClan cats had 
suffered injuries too; there was a patch of fur missing 
from Dawnstripe’s shoulder, while both Shrewpaw and 
Redclaw were bleeding. Obviously they were in no 
mood for another fight. 

“Don’t you dare set paw on our territory again.” 
Redclaw thrust out his neck so he was nose-to-nose 
with Raggedpelt. “Or you’ll get more of the same.” 

Raggedpelt let out a contemptuous snort. “You 


terrify me.” 

Redclaw’s only response was a glare. Then the 
WindClan cats were drawing back, heading for the 
Thunderpath and the tunnel that would lead them back 
to their own territory. 

Yellowfang let her head rest on the ground again. 
She could feel blood pulsing out of her wounds, as well 
as the agony of every other cat’s injuries. She was 
aware of Raggedpelt bending over her, and felt his 
tongue rasping warmly over her ears. 

“Let’s get you back to camp,” he mewed. 

“No!” Yellowfang muttered. “Help Amberleaf first. 
She’s badly scratched.” 

She felt Raggedpelt’s nose touch her ear, and his 
voice was unusually gentle. “Stupid furball, stop 
worrying about every other cat for once.” 

With Raggedpelt on one side and Brackenfoot on 
the other, Yellowfang managed to stand and stagger 
back to camp. As she and the other cats emerged into 
the clearing, their Clanmates rushed out, letting out 
yowls of shock and distress when they saw how badly 
the patrol was injured. 

Brightflower rushed over to Yellowfang. “What 


happened?” she asked, her eyes wide with distress. 
“Oh, Yellowfang ... Come straight to Sagewhisker and 
have those wounds looked at.” 

She paced beside Yellowfang as Raggedpelt and 
Brackenfoot supported her to the medicine cat’s den. 
Archeye limped off with Wolfstep to report to 
Cedarstar. 

Some cat had warned Sagewhisker, who was 
already gathering cobwebs to stop the bleeding. She 
crouched down beside Yellowfang, telling Brightflower 
to go with Amberleaf to the warriors’ den. “Help 
Amberleaf clean up those scratches,” she instructed. 
“PI be over to see her as soon as I’ve dealt with 
Yellowfang.” 

The other cats left, and Sagewhisker crouched 
down beside Yellowfang. “It’s worse this time, isn’t 
it?” she prompted. 

Yellowfang looked up at her and nodded. 

Sagewhisker’s eyes narrowed as if she was 
thinking. “This time you’re not just feeling the pain of 
other cats,” she mewed as she plastered cobweb over 
Yellowfang’s wounds. She ran her paw lightly over the 
scratches on Yellowfang’s shoulder. “You could easily 


have defended yourself from this kind of injury, but 
you’ve been badly hurt because you couldn’t bring 
yourself to fight. You know too much about pain to 
inflict it on other cats. And that makes it impossible for 
you to be a warrior.” She paused, and Yellowfang was 
startled by the sympathy in her eyes. 

“Its time to face your destiny,’ Sagewhisker 
announced. “You have to be a medicine cat.” 





CHAPTER 18 
w& 


so 

The next half-moon dragged by, slow as a snail. 
Yellowfang remained in Sagewhisker’s den, gradually 
recovering from the battle with WindClan. Sometimes 
she thought her wounds would never heal. She longed 
to be out in the forest, hunting for her Clan, but she felt 
shaky every time she rose to her paws. And she 
couldn’t forget what Sagewhisker had said to her 
when she came back from the fight. 

You have to be a medicine cat... 

She was stretching her back one morning, longing 
for her strength to return, when Sagewhisker slipped 
into the den with a worried look on her face. 

“What’s the matter?” Yellowfang asked. 

Sagewhisker twitched her ears. “It’s Nettlespot. 
Her milk is drying up again. Poolcloud is hunting for 
her, but there’s so little prey in this weather, and when 
Poolcloud does catch something, Nettlespot doesn’t 
seem to want it.” 

“That’s not good,” Yellowfang commented. “She’ll 
get weaker if she won’t eat.” 


Sagewhisker nodded. “Find me something to build 
up her appetite, will you?” 

Yellowfang headed for the stores. “Sorrel should be 
good for that,’ she murmured, half to herself, 
remembering how Sagewhisker had once used it for 
Lizardfang when the elder refused to eat. She went to 
uncover the hole where the herb was kept, reached 
down, and brought up a few shriveled leaves, which 
she held out to Sagewhisker. 

“Thanks,” the medicine cat meowed. Giving 
Yellowfang’s wounds a sniff, she added, “Those are 
almost healed. You'll be well enough to attend 
Russetpaw’s and Boulder’s warrior ceremony.” 

“They’re being made warriors?” Yellowfang 
exclaimed. “Have they passed their final assessment?” 

Sagewhisker nodded. “Yesterday.” 

“So much has happened since I’ve been stuck in 
here!” Yellowfang sighed. 

Sagewhisker took the herbs from her and shot her a 
sharp glance. “It’s only the medicine den, not the far 
side of the moon,” she pointed out dryly. “There are 
worse places to be, and often it’s the best place to 
know what’s happening in every corner of the camp.” 


Before Yellowfang could respond, Raggedpelt 
ducked in between the boulders. Yellowfang let out a 
pleased purr at the sight of him. He had visited her 
every day since the battle, always asking Sagewhisker 
when she could return to warrior duties. 

“She can try her legs outside the camp today,” the 
medicine cat announced, forestalling the inevitable 
question before leaving the den with the sorrel leaves 
for Nettlespot. 

Raggedpelt’s eyes gleamed. “Great! Yellowfang, 
why don’t we walk to the big oak tree?” 

Cedarstar’s voice outside interrupted them. “Let all 
cats old enough to catch their own prey join here 
beneath the Clanrock for a meeting!” 

“Tt must be time for Russetpaw’s and Boulder’s 
warrior ceremony,” Yellowfang meowed. 

Raggedpelt narrowed his eyes, but he said nothing. 
The rest of the Clan was already gathering in the 
clearing. Boulder and Russetpaw stood at the front, 
near the base of the Clanrock. Their heads were 
raised, although they both looked nervous. Their 
mentors, Featherstorm and Mousewing, sat side by 
side close by. 


Cedarstar signaled with his tail for silence. “These 
two cats,’ he began, “came to us from the 
Twolegplace. At first many of us were afraid that they 
would not fit into Clan life. I’m pleased to say that we 
were wrong. Featherstorm, has Russetpaw learned the 
ways of the Clan and proven herself worthy of 
becoming a warrior?” 

Featherstorm dipped her head. “She has.” 

“And Mousewing, can you say the same of 
Boulder?” 

“He is a true ShadowClan cat,’ Mousewing 
responded. 

Both apprentices seemed to swell with pride. 
Cedarstar leaped down from the Clanrock to stand in 
front of them. “I, Cedarstar, call upon my warrior 
ancestors to look down upon these apprentices,” the 
Clan leader began. “They have trained hard to 
understand the ways of your noble code, and I 
commend them to you as warriors in thei turn. 
Russetpaw, Boulder, do you promise to uphold the 
warrior code and to protect and defend this Clan, even 
at the cost of your own life?” 

“I do,” Boulder meowed; his voice carried strongly 


to the rest of the Clan. 

“I do,’ Russetpaw vowed more quietly. 

“Then by the powers of StarClan,’ Cedarstar 
continued, “I give you your warrior names. Russetpaw, 
from this moment you will be known as Russetfur. 
StarClan honors your loyalty and courage, and we 
welcome you as a full warrior of ShadowClan.” 

He laid his muzzle on the top of Russetfur’s head, 
and Russetfur bent to lick his shoulder. 

Then Cedarstar turned to Boulder. “I know that you 
don’t wish to change your name,’ he mewed. 
“StarClan will see you are a warrior by what you do, 
rather than what you are called. They honor your 
bravery and determination, and we welcome you as a 
full warrior of ShadowClan.” 

Loud yowls of congratulation burst from the Clan. 
The two newcomers, regarded with such suspicion to 
begin with, had clearly earned their popularity among 
their Clanmates. 

“Russetfur! Boulder! Russetfur! Boulder!” 

But Raggedpelt didn’t join in. He stood watching 
with his jaws firmly closed and a look of grim 
disapproval in his eyes. Yellowfang tried to yowl twice 


as loud to make up for his silence, knowing that there 
was no point in challenging him about it. 

“How about that walk?” Raggedpelt meowed when 
the ceremony was over and the cats split up to go 
about their duties. “Maybe we can pick up some prey 
on the way.” 

“Fine,” Yellowfang replied, falling into step beside 
him. “Though I’m not sure I’ll make it as far as the big 
oak.” 

Her wounds still felt sore, and her legs were weak 
from lack of exercise, but it was good to take in long 
breaths of cold, fresh air, and to see something other 
than the walls of the medicine cat’s den. 

“We must get you back into battle training,” 
Raggedpelt decided as they padded through the forest. 
“Then the next time WindClan attacks, you’ ll be better 
prepared. I’ve been thinking about some new fighting 
moves ...” 

Yellowfang listened with a sinking feeling in her 
belly while he described his ideas to improve her skills. 

“Well? What do you think?” Raggedpelt prompted 
when he had finished. 

“I’m not fully healed yet.” Yellowfang sought 


desperately for excuses. “Maybe in another quarter 
moon ...” 

Raggedpelt halted, his whiskers twitching. “Warriors 
have to be strong at all times!” he reminded. “You only 
feel weak because you’ve been sitting in a nest for too 
long.” 

Yellowfang bowed her head. “Yes, you’re probably 
right.” 

By the time she and Raggedpelt returned to camp, 
Yellowfang was worn out. Heading for the medicine 
cat’s den, she met Sagewhisker on her way out. 

“Its the night of the half-moon,’ Sagewhisker 
meowed. “I’m going to the Moonstone to meet the 
other medicine cats.” 

“I hope all goes wel’ Yellowfang told her. She 
thought about the way ThunderClan’s medicine cat had 
been asking questions about ShadowClan at the last 
Gathering, and wondered if Featherwhisker would quiz 
Sagewhisker as well. 

‘Tm sure it will be fine,’ Sagewhisker replied. 
“Yellowfang, I want you to stay in my den for one 
more night. You can go back to the warriors’ den 
tomorrow.” 


“Okay,” Yellowfang agreed. 

Raggedpelt touched his nose to her shoulder. “Let’s 
eat first,’ he suggested. 

After she had shared a vole with him, Yellowfang 
retreated to her nest in Sagewhisker’s den. Her head 
felt fuzzy with tiredness, and as soon as she curled up 
in the moss she sank deeply into sleep. She woke in 
darkness to the sound of a startled meow and a sharp 
blow in her ribs as a cat tripped over her. 

“Sorry, Yellowfang. I forgot you were there.” 

It was Poolcloud; Yellowfang made out her pale pelt 
in the light of the half-moon and smelled fear on her 
fur. 

“What’s the matter?” she asked. 

“It’s Cloudkit,’ Poolcloud replied anxiously. “He 
keeps vomiting; he must have eaten something bad 
when Nettlespot wasn’t watching. I came to look for 
some herbs that will help him.” 

The wrong herb might kill the poor little scrap, 
Yellowfang thought, heaving herself out of her nest. 
“TIl see if I can find you something,” she mewed. 

Not yarrow, she decided as she padded over to the 
herb stores. That will make him sicker. What we 


need is willow. 

When she poked a paw down the hole where the 
willow leaves were kept, she found that only a tiny 
fragment was left. “There’s not much here,” she told 
Poolcloud. “But it’s probably enough for a tiny kit like 
Cloudkit.” 

Poolcloud nodded, flustered. “Whatever you think is 
best, Yellowfang.” 

Yellowfang led the way out of the den with the 
scrap of leaf in her jaws. A sour smell of vomit hit her 
in the throat as she entered the nursery. In the dim light 
she made out Nettlespot crouched over Cloudkit, who 
was stretched out in the moss, his fur dark and 
clumped with sweat. As Yellowfang approached his 
belly heaved and he started retching, but nothing came 
out of his parted jaws. 

“There’s nothing left inside him,’ Poolcloud 
murmured. “Poor little mite!” 

Nettlespot looked up as the two she-cats entered. 
“Please, you have to fetch Sagewhisker!” she begged. 
“I lost his sister, and I can’t bear to lose this one as 
well.” 

“Sagewhisker has gone to the Moonstone. I’ve 


brought something to treat him with,’ Yellowfang 
meowed, setting the willow leaf down in front of 
Cloudkit. 

“What are you doing?” Nettlespot reached out and 
blocked Yellowfang with one paw. “You’re not a 
medicine cat. Leave him alone! You might make him 
worse!” 

“Its okay, Nettlespot,’ Poolcloud mewed gently, 
resting her tail-tip on the distraught queen’s shoulder. 
“Yellowfang knows which herb to use, and 
Sagewhisker isn’t here, so we don’t have a choice.” 

Nettlespot hesitated for a moment and then drew 
back, letting Yellowfang get close to her kit. She 
watched with wide, worried eyes as Yellowfang 
chewed up the willow and carefully pushed the pulp 
into Cloudkit’s mouth. 

Cloudkit let out a pitiful mewling sound. “Yuck!” 

“It’s okay,” Yellowfang comforted him, massaging 
his throat with one paw until she was sure he had 
swallowed the leaf. “It tastes nasty but it will make 
you feel better soon. Poolcloud, will you get me some 
moss soaked in water?” 

The gray-and-white she-cat gave a swift nod and 


vanished from the den. She was back more quickly 
than Yellowfang could have hoped, carrying a dripping 
bunch of moss in her jaws. She brought it to Cloudkit, 
who sucked in the water eagerly. Yellowfang thought 
that he was already looking a little livelier. She tore off 
part of the wet moss and used it to clean up his face 
and ears. Not sure what else to do, she bent down 
toward the kit, pressing one of her ears against his 
belly; she could hear a churning sound, almost like 
water falling into a pool. 

“That’s right,” she told him. “Keep drinking as much 
as you can.” 

Nettlespot had watched every movement 
Yellowfang made, like a hawk about to swoop on its 
prey. Yellowfang could feel her tension, and knew that 
she would lash out if anything went wrong. But 
Cloudkit was relaxing now, blinking up at his mother. 

“Want milk,” he mewed. 

Nettlespot lay on her side and began drawing him 
closer to her with her tail. 

Yellowfang thought fast. “No, don’t do that,” she 
meowed. “Keep him on water for tonight, to give his 
belly a rest.” 


Cloudkit let out a mew of protest, and Nettlespot 
glared at Yellowfang, then reluctantly nodded. “But 
only until dawn, when Sagewhisker comes back,” she 
added. 

Yellowfang clawed away the vomit-soaked bedding, 
and Poolcloud brought more from the far side of the 
nursery before going out again to fetch another bundle 
of wet moss. Once Nettlespot and Cloudkit were 
settled comfortably, Yellowfang left. 

“Thank you,” Poolcloud mewed, following her out of 
the nursery. “You were brave to step in and help. I’m 
sure Cloudkit will be fine until Sagewhisker comes 
back.” 

“I hope so,” Yellowfang muttered, stumbling back to 
the medicine cat’s den and collapsing into her nest. 

Hardly a heartbeat seemed to pass before she was 
woken again by a cat prodding her in the ribs. She 
opened her eyes to see Poolcloud bending over her. 

“Ts it Cloudkit?” she asked, springing to her paws. 
“Is he worse?” 

“No, he’s fine,” Poolcloud reassured her. “He slept 
through the night, and now he’s wriggling around like a 
fox in a fit, wailing for milk. Nettlespot didn’t give him 


any,” she added. “She’s keeping him on water, just like 
you said.” 

Yellowfang winced. Don t listen to my advice. I’m 
not a medicine cat! 

She followed Poolcloud across the camp to the 
nursery. The dawn sky was milky pale above the 
camp, and a fresh breeze was blowing, ruffling 
Yellowfang’s thick gray fur. Nettlespot was still lying in 
her nest, while Cloudkit jumped up and down beside 
her in the moss. 

‘T’m hungry!” he complained. “Why can’t I have 
milk? I was sick yesterday, not today!” 

“He’s much better,’ Nettlespot meowed, with a nod 
to Yellowfang. Her eyes glowed as she gazed at her 
active kit. 

Suddenly the light from the entrance to the nursery 
was cut off; Yellowfang glanced around to see 
Sagewhisker looking in. 

“What’s this I hear about Cloudkit?” she mewed. 
“He looks fine to me.” 

“He’s better now,” Nettlespot replied. “But he was 
so sick last night. I was scared for him.” 

“I gave him willow, and told Nettlespot to keep him 


on water overnight,’ Yellowfang explained a little 
nervously. 

“And Pm hungry!” Cloudkit repeated. 

Sagewhisker let out a soft mrrow of sympathy. “Let 
him feed for a short while,” she instructed Nettlespot. 
“But Yellowfang was right to only allow him to have 
water until his belly had settled.” 

After Sagewhisker had examined Cloudkit and left 
him peacefully suckling, she led Yellowfang back to 
her den. “You did well,” she told her. “Without you, 
Cloudkit might not have made it until I got back.” 

Yellowfang shrugged. “Well, I’m bound to have 
picked up something about herbs, living in here for so 
long.” 

Sagewhisker faced her with a look of gentle 
determination. “Don’t you think you should stop 
avoiding the real issue?” she pressed. “Yellowfang, 
your destiny is to be a medicine cat. Are you ready to 
accept that?” 

Yellowfang felt as if the ground underneath her 
paws was giving way. “I’m a warrior!” she protested. 
“T’m too old to become an apprentice again.” 

“Nonsense,” Sagewhisker mewed briskly. “You’ll be 


a better medicine cat for having had extra experience. 
You know exactly what it’s like to take part in a fight, 
and which wounds hurt the most. You have a good 
memory for herbs, too—you proved that when you 
took the willow to Cloudkit. And you have the courage 
to act on your instincts.” 

With every word the medicine cat spoke, 
Yellowfang grew more and more reluctant. I’m not 
going to do this. She cant make me! “You only think 
I should train with you because I can tell you when 
cats are in pain!” she blurted out. 

Sagewhisker gazed seriously at Yellowfang. “You 
have an ability I’ve never come across before,” she 
meowed. “I don’t know of any other cats, even 
medicine cats, who can feel pain in others the way you 
do. It has been given to you for a reason, and I can 
only think it means that you should become a medicine 
cat yourself.” 

Yellowfang was startled by the somber note in 
Sagewhisker’s voice; it made her feel uneasy. “I didn’t 
ask for this,” she whispered. 

“None of us ask for our destinies,’ Sagewhisker 
pointed out. “Only StarClan knows the reason behind 


the paths we must walk.” 

“I— need time to think about it.” 

“No!” Sagewhisker’s voice was unexpectedly 
forceful. “You’ve had enough time! Have the courage 
to do this. I will help you every step of the way, but 
you can’t keep hiding from it. We must start now, 
because I won’t be here forever.” 

Yellowfang felt a sudden chill around her heart. 
Sagewhisker is getting old, and she 5 never had an 
apprentice. What would ShadowClan do without a 
medicine cat? 

Right from being a kit, Yellowfang had wanted to be 
the best warrior she could, to serve her Clan. Now she 
had to face the fact that she might serve her Clan 
better by turning her paws onto another path. 

“Okay.” The one word took an enormous effort, and 
her voice shook as she went on. “If Cedarstar agrees, 
I will become your apprentice.” 

“Thank you,” Sagewhisker meowed. ‘TIl speak to 
Cedarstar now.” The old she-cat looked shrewdly at 
Yellowfang. “You should go and tell Raggedpelt, don’t 
you think? Things are going to be very different now.” 

Yellowfang felt a hollow place in her belly, and a 


pain worse than the pangs of hunger. She hadn’t 
thought about what effect this would have on her 
future with Raggedpelt. Dipping her head to 
Sagewhisker, Yellowfang padded out of the den. Her 
fur burned with awkwardness as she went looking for 
her mate. He wasn’t in the camp, but when she 
headed for the training place she heard his voice raised 
in a savage yowl, and Crowtail’s voice responding in 
protest. “Hey, watch it! You’re not fighting WindClan 
cats now!” 

Yellowfang reached the clearing to see Raggedpelt 
and Crowtail facing each other, their chests heaving 
and their tails lashing. “Sorry to interrupt,” she called. 
“Crowtail, I need to talk to Raggedpelt.” 

The black tabby she-cat relaxed. “Okay,” she 
puffed. “We’re just about finished here anyway. That 
last backflip and twist worked really well, Raggedpelt.” 
With a nod to him she headed back toward the camp. 

The tabby tom bounded over to Yellowfang; she 
could see the excitement from the practice was still 
surging through him. “Are you coming back to warrior 
duties?” he demanded. 

“No.” Yellowfang gazed at him, realizing all over 


again how much he meant to her. The words stuck in 
her throat like a piece of old crow. J have to end 
everything—and I’ve never been less sure about a 
decision in my life. “Pm going to become 
Sagewhisker’s apprentice,” she whispered. “I’m so 
sorry.” 

Raggedpelt stared at her. “Not funny,” he meowed. 

“T’m not joking.” 

The next heartbeat of shocked silence seemed to 
stretch out for a moon. Then Raggedpelt threw back 
his head and sent a furious yowl into the leaf-bare 
trees. “Is it because you’re a coward?” he snarled. 
“Did the fight with WindClan scare you too much?” 

“Never!” Yellowfang flashed back at him. “I just 
cannot inflict pain on other cats, not anymore. 
Sagewhisker says this is my destiny.” 

“You'll lose me as well as your life as a warrior,” 
Raggedpelt reminded her. “I thought you cared! I 
thought you wanted to spend your life with me. I—I 
even thought we might have kits one day.” 

“I thought the same,” Yellowfang mewed, feeling 
her heart break. “I care for you so much! But I don’t 
have a choice.” 


“You always have a choice,” Raggedpelt growled, 
turning his back on her. “And I thought you had chosen 


$3 


me. 





CHAPTER 19 
w& 


“ 
“Are you sure about this, Yellowfang?”’ 

Yellowfang shifted on the leaves that covered the 
floor of Cedarstar’s den. The Clan leader had 
summoned her there as soon as she returned from 
talking to Raggedpelt. 

“I want to be certain that you have thought through 
this decision,” Cedarstar went on. “I need to know that 
you haven’t been scared by the WindClan skirmish, or 
troubled by the hunger. This happens every time leaf- 
bare is longer and colder than usual, and even medicine 
cats don’t have the power to feed the Clan.” His tone 
was unexpectedly kind. “Sagewhisker believes this is 
your destiny,” he added. “Do you believe that, too?” 

Yellowfang nodded. “I’ve thought hard about this, 
Cedarstar, and I truly believe it’s the path I’m meant to 
walk.” She hoped that she wouldn’t have to talk about 
the way she shared pain with every cat in the Clan. 

To her relief, Cedarstar said nothing about that. “I’m 
pleased that Sagewhisker has found an apprentice,” he 
meowed. “And you must never feel your time and 


training as a warrior was wasted. You’ll be in a better 
position to understand how quickly warriors want to 
heal!” His warm gaze rested on her. “Good luck to 
you, Yellowfang. I know Sagewhisker will be an 
excellent mentor.” 

Dipping her head to the Clan leader, Yellowfang 
rose and left the den. Cedarstar followed her out, 
leaping onto the Clanrock and yowling a summons to 
the Clan. Yellowfang stood at the base of the rock, 
feeling as if the gaze of every cat was fixed on her as 
they emerged from ther dens with murmurs of 
surprise at the unexpected meeting. Sagewhisker came 
to sit right at the front; Yellowfang thought she looked 
pleased but exhausted, like a cat who had just fought 
fiercely and won a battle. 

“I have good news for the Clan,’ Cedarstar 
announced when all the cats were assembled. 
“Yellowfang will be Sagewhisker’s apprentice, and 
ShadowClan’s next medicine cat.” 

Utter silence greeted his announcement. 
Yellowfang’s embarrassment grew; she longed to slink 
away from all the attention. She had spotted 
Raggedpelt at the back of the crowd, and she could 


feel the heat of his glare even from there. 

I wish I could tell him that my feelings for him 
havent gone away. But I must follow the code of 
the medicine cats now, and that means I can never 
have a mate. The whole Clan must mean as much to 
me as my own kits would. 

Her gaze traveled over her Clanmates, old and 
young, all of them staring at her. The ground seemed to 
dip underneath her. Then Brightflower sprang to her 
paws and bounded up to her, closely followed by 
Brackenfoot. “This is wonderful!” Brightflower 
exclaimed, pressing her muzzle against Yellowfang’s 
shoulder. “The next medicine cat—what an honor!” 

“Congratulations,” Brackenfoot added, dipping his 
head. “I know you’ll do very well.” 

Nutwhisker and Rowanberry pushed their way 
through the cats to reach Yellowfang’s side. 
Nutwhisker blinked at her with a mixture of wonder 
and fear in his eyes. “Wow, you'll be talking to 
StarClan!” he breathed. 

Rowanberry looked hurt as she brushed pelts with 
her sister. “You were my best friend!” she mewed. 

“PI still be here,” Yellowfang reminded her. “We 


can still be friends.” 

Rowanberry shook her head. “It won’t be the 
same.” 

Yellowfang felt a wave of loneliness as she realized 
that her relationship with Raggedpelt wasn’t all that 
she had lost. But Sagewhisker’s paw tapped her on the 
shoulder, giving her no time to dwell on what had 
changed. 

“Come on,” the medicine cat meowed. “We have 
work to do.” 

She led the way back to her den. Yellowfang sat 
down in front of her, feeling rather small and 
apprehensive. There s so much I dont know! 

“Your first task,’ Sagewhisker began, “must be to 
control your feelings when other cats are sick and in 
pain.” 

Yellowfang blinked in surprise. 7 thought I had to 
do this because I have these feelings! 

“I can’t be much help,’ Sagewhisker went on, 
“because I don’t know what you actually experience, 
but is there any way you can block the pain coming 
from outside?” 

Yellowfang thought hard. “It’s hard to know when 


it’s not actually happening,” she explained. “But I think 
I might be able to shut it out if I focus on myself—that 
I’m healthy, I’m not in pain, and I can treat this cat’s 
symptoms.” 

Sagewhisker nodded. “That sounds good. We can’t 
test it until there is a cat in pain in the Clan, but you 
should practice focusing on yourself. See if you can 
limit your feelings to your own body.” 

‘Tl try.” But that’s like asking me to concentrate 
on breathing. I dont think about it; it just happens! 

“Good,” Sagewhisker mewed. “Now, I want you to 
clear out the herb store and discard any dead leaves. 
You can identify what we have and when it would be 
used, and work out what we need to find in the 
forest.” 

Thats a huge job, Yellowfang thought in alarm. 

“But before that,’ Sagewhisker went on, “my nest 
needs more moss, and your nest needs sorting out now 
that you’re going to sleep here permanently.” 

Yellowfang stared at her mentor. “Those are 
apprentice tasks!” she objected. 

“And you’re an apprentice,” Sagewhisker retorted. 
‘T’m going to see how Nettlespot and Cloudkit are, so 


you can get on with the bedding.” Not waiting for a 
reply, she whisked out of the den. 

Yellowfang clawed at the old nests in a mutinous 
daze, dragging them out into the clearing in the sharp, 
frosty sun that gave no warmth. As she bundled up the 
moss and bracken she heard a cat cough behind her, 
and glanced over her shoulder to see Foxheart. 

“That bedding is so dusty!” the ginger warrior 
exclaimed with another exaggerated cough. “Can’t you 
do that somewhere else where it won’t bother the 
warriors?” 

Yellowfang tried to ignore her, but Foxheart hadn’t 
finished taunting her. “That’s such a boring job!” she 
went on with false sympathy. “I wouldn’t go back to 
being an apprentice, no way! Will you have to check 
the elders for ticks, too?” When Yellowfang didn’t 
reply, she added, “After all, there are no warrior 
apprentices in the Clan now. Wow, you are going to be 
busy!” She flicked her tail at Yellowfang and ran off. 

Burning with indignation, Yellowfang dragged the old 
bedding out into the forest, where she shoved it under 
a clump of brambles. As she stumbled around in the 
undergrowth, collecting fresh moss and dried bracken, 


she felt more and more resentful. 

Sagewhisker just wanted someone to do all her 
dirty work! I never thought my destiny would 
include this kind of thing! I hope StarClan has a 
word with Sagewhisker and makes her treat me 
with more respect! 

Puffing under her load of new bedding, Yellowfang 
returned to camp. Her heart sank when she spotted 
Lizardstripe standing near the fresh-kill pile. 

“Hey, Yellowfang!” the tabby warrior called out to 
her. “Could you clean out my nest, too? Pd like some 
more feathers in it, please. And I think the elders 
would like some fresh-kill brought to them.” 

Yellowfang was too tired and cross to answer. She 
tried to stalk past with her head held high even though 
she was carrying such a huge bundle. Then she 
spotted Stonetooth standing outside the warriors’ den. 

“Lizardstripe, what are you domg?” he called, his 
voice annoyed. “You’re supposed to be on a hunting 
patrol. Frogtail is waiting for you.” 

With a hiss of annoyance, Lizardstripe bounded off. 

Stonetooth padded up to Yellowfang. “You’re doing 
great,’ he meowed. “Don’t worry, these mouse- 


brained warriors will get used to this in a couple of 
days, when something else catches their attention.” He 
let out a rasping purr. “I think you'll make a fine 
medicine cat, Yellowfang. And remember this—when 
your apprenticeship is over, cats like Foxheart and 
Lizardstripe will be coming to you for help.” 

Yellowfang felt soothed by the deputy’s kind tone 
and the twinkle in his eyes. “Thanks, Stonetooth,” she 
mumbled, struggling on with her burden toward the 
medicine cat’s den. 

When she had arranged the bedding into two cozy 
nests, Yellowfang sat down to take a breath. The huge 
decision she had made began to sink in. This would be 
her life from now on. She would be separate from her 
Clanmates, isolated by her knowledge and her 
connection with StarClan, and yet she would be the cat 
they would come to first if they were sick or injured. 
She began to look around the den, really noticing it for 
the first time and wondering if there was anything she 
might want to change. Her gaze traveled over the herb 
stores. I wonder if we could make a hollow 
somewhere to store moss for soaking. That would 
be much quicker than going outside the camp. And 


we could keep the cobwebs dry if we hung them on 
the thorns over there. 

“Oh, StarClan,” she whispered, “if you can hear me, 
I think I’m okay with this. I can be a medicine cat, if 
that is what you want.” 

For a heartbeat, she felt that cats with herb-scented 
pelts were brushing against her, receiving her into the 
long line of medicine cats who had cared for her Clan 
for season upon season. 

Paw steps sounded behind her as Sagewhisker 
bustled back into the den. “What are you doing?” she 
scolded. “Why haven’t you got the herbs out yet?” 

“I was just about to,” Yellowfang defended herself. 

“Well, you need to work faster.” 

Biting back a sharp retort, Yellowfang padded over 
to the herb stores. With Sagewhisker looking on, she 
began pulling out the herbs and sorting them into piles. 

“No, that’s borage,” Sagewhisker corrected her. “It 
goes with the other herbs for fever, like dandelion.” 

“Okay.” Yellowfang moved the leaves from one pile 
to another. 

“And be a bit gentler with them,’ Sagewhisker 
warned. “Most of this stuff is so dry, it'll fall apart if 


you go at it with rough paws.” 

Yellowfang’s paws tingled with a mixture of 
annoyance and embarrassment. She went on sorting 
herbs, acutely aware of Sagewhisker’s alert gaze. 

“How would you use those daisy leaves for back 
pain?” Sagewhisker asked after a while. 

“Er ... give them to the cat to eat, and—” 

“No!” Sagewhisker interrupted. “Chew them up and 
make them into a poultice, then fasten it on with 
cobwebs.” 

Yellowfang’s irritation spilled over. “Stop rushing 
me!” she snapped. “Tl learn, but you have to give me 
a chance.” 

Sagewhisker let out a snort, but Yellowfang was 
convinced she looked a little guilty. “I thought you 
knew more than that,” Sagewhisker muttered. 

“How can I?” Yellowfang meowed. “I’m a 
warrior. I can feel when cats are in pain, but I don’t 
know how to make them better. I only knew about the 
willow leaf because I saw you give one to Lizardfang 
once when he was vomiting.” 

Sagewhisker nodded. “Okay, let’s start again. And 
we'll focus on herbs that relieve pain, before we think 


about herbs that cure infection or give strength or stop 
coughing.” 

Yellowfang’s head whirled. Theres so much to 
learn! Warrior training was much easier than this! 


The half-moon hung in the sky like a silver feather 
as Yellowfang followed Sagewhisker into the hills 
toward Highstones. Her belly churned with 
nervousness as she remembered the last time she 
visited the Moonstone, with Deerleap. 

I had such dreadful dreams there... oh, 
StarClan, please dont make me go through that 
again! 

She felt nervous in a different way as she and her 
mentor approached Mothermouth and she saw the 
other medicine cats waiting outside. Her pads prickled 
with apprehension; what would they say to her? 

As she and Sagewhisker plodded up the final slope, 
a graceful white she-cat with black spots on her pelt 
bounded forward to meet them. Her blue gaze rested 
on Yellowfang with friendly interest. “Greetings, 
Sagewhisker,’” she mewed. “Don’t tell me you’ve 
found an apprentice at last!” 

Sagewhisker shot a proud glance at Yellowfang. “I 


have, thank StarClan. This is Yellowfang.” 

The white she-cat gave Yellowfang a nod of 
welcome. “I’m Brambleberry, RiverClan’s medicine 
cat,” she told her. “Come and meet the others.” 

Yellowfang padded beside Brambleberry toward the 
gaping hole in the hillside, while Sagewhisker dropped 
back a pace. Her gaze traveled over the other three 
medicine cats. Two of them stood close together: an 
old speckled gray tom whose pale blue gaze drifted 
over her without interest, and a younger silver-pelted 
tom with a plumy tail. 

I saw him once at a Gathering, talking to 
Sagewhisker, Yellowfang remembered. 

“This is Yellowfang,’ Brambleberry announced as 
they approached the others. 

“My new apprentice,’ Sagewhisker added. 
“Yellowfang, these are Goosefeather and 
Featherwhisker of ThunderClan, and Hawkheart of 
WindClan.” 

Yellowfang dipped her head politely. “Greetings,” 
she meowed. 

“Welcome,” Featherwhisker responded. “It’s always 
good to receive a new medicine cat.” 


“Th-thank you,” Yellowfang stammered. “There’s 
such a lot to learn, but I’m glad to be here.” 

“Yellowfang.” Hawkheart, a mottled dark brown 
tom, stepped forward. “You have your full name 
already, so you must have been a warrior before you 
decided to follow the way of a medicine cat.” 

Yellowfang nodded. Zs that wrong? she wondered. 

“I was a warrior first, like you,’ Hawkheart 
continued to Yellowfang’s surprise. “I’ve found my 
warrior training very useful, and I expect you will too.” 

“We’re wasting moonlight,’ Goosefeather broke in 
tetchily. “Are we going to stand out here gossiping all 
night?” 

I'm pleased to meet you, too, Yellowfang thought 
as she followed Sagewhisker into the tunnel. 

The cave of the Moonstone was already drenched 
in brilliant silver light when the medicine cats arrived. 
Sagewhisker padded over to the base of the stone, and 
beckoned with her tail for Yellowfang to join her there. 
The other medicine cats sat down a few tail-lengths 
away. 

“Yellowfang,” Sagewhisker began, “is it your wish 
to share the deepest knowledge of StarClan as a 


ShadowClan medicine cat?” 

Yellowfang gulped. “It is.” 

Sagewhisker’s gaze rested warmly on Yellowfang 
as she continued. “Warriors of StarClan, I present to 
you this cat. She has shown great courage in turning 
aside from the path of a warrior. My pride in her could 
not be greater. Grant her your wisdom and insight so 
that she may understand your ways and heal her Clan 
in accordance with your will.” Beckoning Yellowfang 
forward again, she added, “Now lie down and press 
your nose against the stone.” 

Fear flooded over Yellowfang again as she obeyed. 
Her eyes closed and she felt icy cold envelop her. It 
was as if she were floating in darkness; the stone, the 
cave, and her fellow medicine cats all swept away. 

Then Yellowfang sensed that her paws were 
standing on solid ground. She opened her eyes, blinked, 
and looked around. She was in a lush clearing, with a 
stream gurgling through it and flowers of all colors 
scattered through the grass. Trees in full leaf 
surrounded the open space, their branches stirring in a 
warm breeze that carried scents of growth and 
abundant prey. Everything was bathed in sunlight. 


Yellowfang rose to her paws and stretched. She had 
expected to find cats of StarClan waiting for her, but 
she was alone. What am I supposed to do now? 

Movement caught her gaze and she realized that a 
cat was approaching through the trees. When it 
emerged into the open, Yellowfang saw it was an 
orange-and-gray she-cat, her fur thick and shining, 
with bright eyes and a frosting of starlight around her 
paws. Sheer astonishment struck Yellowfang as she 
recognized her. 

“Silverflame!” 

Stumbling a little, she ran forward to touch noses 
with the cat she had last seen as a scrawny, pain- 
racked elder. 

“Greetings, Yellowfang,” Silverflame purred. “I’m 
glad that I was chosen to welcome you into StarClan. 
It is an honor to see you here, and as a medicine cat, 
too!” 

“It’s great to see you, too,” Yellowfang responded, 
confused. “But I was expecting to see another 
medicine cat. Aren’t I here to learn stuff?” 

Silverflame dipped her head. “Sagewhisker will 
teach you all you need to know of herbs,” she mewed. 


“But I—” 

“Then you’re going to send me omens!” Yellowfang 
interrupted, excitement tingling in her pads. 

“It doesn’t always work like that.” There was a 
note of regret in Silverflame’s voice. “More than 
anything else, a medicine cat needs to have courage in 
her own instincts.” 

Now Yellowfang was even more confused. “But 
you will visit me, right?” she asked anxiously. “What if 
I don’t know the answers?” 

Silverflame touched Yellowfang’s ear lightly with 
her nose. “I will always be with you,” she promised, 
“but you must trust yourself first.” 

Yellowfang blinked. “I don’t understand.” 

“I will watch over you,” the StarClan cat assured 
her. “Whatever choices you make, you are not alone. I 
have faith in you—in your decisions and your destiny.” 

As she spoke, she began to fade away, the outlines 
of her body lost in a glitter of starshine. 

“Don’t go!” Yellowfang called. 

But Silverflame had vanished, and a heartbeat later 
Yellowfang opened her eyes to find herself back in the 
cave of the Moonstone, with the other medicine cats 


dreaming beside her. She stood up and backed away 
from the Moonstone, shaking out her fur. She had 
escaped the terrible dreams of her last visit, but her 
meeting with Silverflame had been a long way from 
what she expected. Am I really expected to make my 
choices alone, without the guidance of StarClan? 
Yet Silverflame had said she had faith in Yellowfang. If 
she doubted herself, she would be letting Silverflame 
down. I will make you proud of me, Yellowfang 
vowed to her beloved former Clanmate. You ll see! 


Yellowfang teased out a bundle of cobwebs and 
began hanging them on the thorns to dry. She had been 
a medicine cat apprentice for five sunrises, and she felt 
pleased that Sagewhisker had approved her suggestion 
of what to do with the webs. A sudden pain stabbed 
into her paw. At first she thought she had picked up 
one of the thorns from the bush, but when she looked 
at her pads they were unmarked. 

Another cat, then. 

Yellowfang turned to see Finchflight limping 
between the boulders, one forepaw held in the air. She 
almost called out, You ve stepped on a thorn, havent 
you? before she remembered that she wasn’t 


supposed to know about wounds until the injured cat 
told her. 

“What can I do for you?” she asked. 

Finchflight glanced around. “I was looking for 
Sagewhisker,” he told her, then added doubtfully, “but 
you’re a medicine cat apprentice now, so I suppose 
you'll do.” 

Thanks for your confidence, Yellowfang thought. 

She winced as Finchflight hobbled forward and held 
out his paw for her inspection. Then she recalled 
talking to Sagewhisker about blocking out her feelings, 
and made herself aware of her own paws. They re all 
fine. I have no thorns. I can feel smooth earth 
underneath my pads, nothing else. The pain from 
Finchflight faded; Yellowfang was still aware of it, but 
only as a faint trace in the background of her mind. 7t 
worked! Now I can examine Finchflights paw 
without my own pain getting in the way. 

As soon as she examined the black-and-white tom’s 
pad, Yellowfang saw the tip of the thorn just peeking 
out. “That looks bad,” she mewed. “It must hurt a lot.” 

“Its a nuisance,” Finchflight replied, shrugging. “I 
was supposed to go out on patrol. Brackenfoot is 


leading a raid on Carrionplace, to hunt rats.” 

Yellowfang shivered, remembering the time that she 
had taken part in the last rat raid. “It’s too bad you 
can’t go,” she agreed. “Brackenfoot will need every 
cat.” 

She had seen Sagewhisker removing thorns before, 
so she knew what to do. She licked Finchflight’s paw 
thoroughly around the shank of the thorn, then tried to 
catch it in her teeth. But it was driven in deeply, and 
Yellowfang accidentally closed her teeth on the soft 
part of Finchflight’s pad. 

Finchflight leaped back with a yowl, and Yellowfang 
felt his pain flood into her own paw again. “I’m sorry!” 
she gasped. 

To her relief, Sagewhisker appeared in the entrance 
to the den. “What’s all this?” the medicine cat asked. 

Quickly Yellowfang explained. 

“TIl take over now,” Sagewhisker meowed with a 
nod. “But you did exactly the right thing, Yellowfang.” 

“Not when she bit me!” Finchflight growled. 

Once Sagewhisker had extracted the thorn and sent 
Finchflight to catch up with his patrol, she turned to 
Yellowfang. “The thing is not to rush,” she advised. 


“Just keep licking. If you press your tongue on the 
outside of the pad around the thorn, it will often come 
out a little bit, and then you can grab it more easily.” 

“Thanks,” Yellowfang mewed. ‘TIl remember that.” 

Sagewhisker hesitated, then asked, “How did the 
pain blocking go?” 

“It worked really well,’ Yellowfang replied. “I had it 
under control until I bit Finchflight, and then I couldn’t 
concentrate on keeping out that pain as well.” 

Sagewhisker rested her tail-tip comfortingly on 
Yellowfang’s shoulder. “It will take time,’ she 
murmured. “Just keep trying.” 


The sun was rising above the trees as Yellowfang 
padded across to the nursery to check on Cloudkit. He 
was obviously in perfect health, wriggling around in the 
nursery and jumping on pretend mice. “I’m going to be 
the best hunter in ShadowClan!” he announced. 

“T’m sure you will,” Nettlespot purred, looking down 
at her kit. “He’s completely better,’ she added to 
Yellowfang, who was aware of the new note of 
respect in her tone. “That willow cured him, just like 
you said. And he’s grown so much in this last quarter 
moon!” 


“T’m glad,” Yellowfang began. “He should—” 

She broke off at the sound of yowls from the camp 
entrance. At the same moment a wave of pain flooded 
over her: sharp stabbing wounds as well as the dull 
ache of scratches. 

“What’s that?” Nettlespot yelped, sitting up in alarm 
and drawing Cloudkit close to her with her tail. 

Within a heartbeat Yellowfang forced herself to 
concentrate on the lack of injuries to her own body, 
until the pain eased. J am not hurt. The pain is not 
mine. Once she had it under control, she hurried out of 
the nursery. Sagewhisker had just appeared from her 
own den. Side by side she and Yellowfang bounded 
across the camp to meet the returning cats. 
Yellowfang could hear the blood rushing in her ears. 

My Clanmates are wounded! But I am their 
medicine cat: I can help them! 





CHAPTER 20 
w& 


a 
Brackenfoot and Deerleap hurtled out of the tunnel 
with Toadskip, Scorchwind, Rowanberry, and 
Finchflight hard on their paws. Yellowfang could see 
that all of them bore scratches and bitemarks. 

“What happened?” Sagewhisker demanded. 

“The rats happened,” Scorchwind growled. 

Rowanberry shuddered. “So many rats!” 

The rest of the Clan was emerging from their dens, 
clustering around and asking the same question. 
Eventually the returning patrol settled down in the 
middle of the clearing, with their Clanmates crowding 
around them. Cedarstar came out of his den, followed 
by Stonetooth, and joined them. Yellowfang found a 
place to sit next to Rowanberry and pricked her ears to 
listen. 

“No.” Sagewhisker gave her a nudge. “We have to 
go around and check the injuries at the same time. 
Assess every cat, then treat the most seriously 
wounded first. I'll fetch the herbs we need.” 

Feeling embarrassed that she hadn’t realized that, 


Yellowfang jumped up and followed her mentor. 

Meanwhile, Brackenfoot explained what had 
happened. “As you know, we went to hunt along the 
edge of Carrionplace. At first everything went well. 
Rowanberry caught a huge rat.” He gave the young 
warrior a nod of approval. “But then hordes of rats 
started pouring out of those stinking heaps and 
attacked us. You’ ve never seen so many rats!” 

“But rats are prey!” Newtspeck exclaimed. “Prey 
doesn’t fight back.” 

“These rats do,” Brackenfoot responded. He shook 
his head; Yellowfang could sense his shame and 
embarrassment, and saw that the rest of his patrol 
shared it. “We had to flee,” he added. “There were too 
many for us to fight.” 

“You did the right thing,’ Cedarstar meowed, 
standing up to speak. “What good would it have done 
your Clan if you had been killed or seriously wounded? 
The good news is that there are plenty of rats. We just 
have to work out the best way to overpower them.” 

No warrior spoke up, but Yellowfang could see that 
all the Clan was thinking hard, murmuring to one 
another as they worked out what they might do. 


Nettlespot leaned closer to Toadskip. “You can’t go 
risking your life when you have your son, Cloudkit, to 
think about,” she told him. 

Poolcloud, who was sitting close by, swiveled her 
head to look at Nettlespot. “Toadskip is the father of 
my kits, too,” she snapped. “But I wouldn’t dream of 
telling a warrior not to fight.” 

Stonetooth distracted them by rising to his paws. 
“As I see it,’ he began, “the problem is how to catch 
some rats without attracting the attention of the rest of 
them.” 

Amberleaf raised her tail. “Just send one or two 
warriors at a time?” she suggested. 

“Or hunt at night, in darkness?” Mousewing put in. 

“Maybe we should wait for the wind to blow in the 
right direction,’ Hollyflower added. “So it would hide 
our scent as we creep up?” 

Sagewhisker appeared beside Yellowfang with her 
jaws full of herbs. “So where do we start?” she asked 
after setting down the dusty bundle. 

“Scorchwind has a deep bite,” Yellowfang reported. 
“That’s the worst wound; it could become infected. 
Rowanberry has some mild scratches, and 


Brackenfoot has some claw marks that look sore.” 

“No need to fuss about me,” Brackenfoot meowed, 
catching what his daughter said. “I’ve taken much 
worse wounds in my time.” 

‘Tl fuss about you all I want,’ Yellowfang 
responded tartly. “You'll have some dock leaf to soothe 
the soreness, and like it.” 

Brackenfoot dipped his head; Yellowfang caught a 
gleam of amusement in his eyes. “Very well, medicine 
cat,” he purred. 

As Yellowfang padded around treating the wounds 
and keeping her pain under careful control, she noticed 
Raggedpelt sitting at the edge of the crowd, his amber 
eyes smoldering. Now he stepped forward. “Are we 
not warriors?” he demanded, glaring around at his 
Clanmates. “We are proud, afraid of no enemy, trained 
to fight in any battle! We will not skulk like dogs 
around these rats, hiding under cover of darkness, or 
fleeing like foxes when they bare their teeth. They are 
rats! Prey! Fresh-kill! We will not be scared!” 

A murmur of excitement rose from the cats around 
him. Raggedpelt crouched down and began to score 
lines in the frozen earth of the camp floor. “Look! 


Here’s Carrionplace. This is the route we should take 
from camp, coming out here. Patrols should attack 
from here, here, and here. We’ ll drive the rats toward 
a fourth patrol, and contain them in the tightest area 
possible. We need to find a place where we’ll always 
be higher than the rats, to keep the advantage.” His 
voice grew stronger and more confident with every 
word. “We should build barriers on either side of the 
spot where the rats will emerge, to keep them blocked 
in. We’ll set a trap for them!” he ended triumphantly. 

A moment of silence followed, every cat turning 
their gaze toward the Clan leader. 

Cedarstar nodded. “It might work,” he pronounced. 

Several cats pushed up to Raggedpelt to 
congratulate him, while others started talking in quiet 
tones. Yellowfang knew that not every cat would feel 
pride in Raggedpelt’s courageous plan; he was well 
respected in his Clan, but didn’t make friends easily. 

But I’m proud of him, she thought, catching his eye 
and nodding to show him that she agreed it was a great 
idea. 

Cedarstar, Stonetooth, and the other senior warriors 
huddled around Raggedpelt, examining the scratch 


marks he had made in the earth. Yellowfang, still 
helping Sagewhisker deal with injuries, found herself at 
the back of the crowd. 

“T want to be in the final patrol,’ Wolfstep meowed. 
“T’d be good at building the walls to trap the rats.” 

Amberleaf slid out her claws. “PI chase the rats out 
of their den and into the ambush.” 

Yellowfang opened her jaws to make a suggestion 
when she was distracted by a prod from Sagewhisker. 
“You’re not a warrior anymore,” the medicine cat 
reminded her. “Can you go back to the den and fetch 
me some burdock root? That’s the best cure for 
Scorchwind’s rat bite. Or wild garlic if you can’t find 
the burdock root.” 

Yellowfang padded off with a pang in her heart for 
what she was missing. When she got back she chewed 
up the burdock root while Sagewhisker put marigold on 
Rowanberry’s scratches. When she came to treat 
Scorchwind’s bite, he was so excited to be discussing 
his brother’s plan that he wouldn’t keep stil; 
Yellowfang couldn’t get the cobwebs to stick the 
poultice in place. 

“Will you stop squirming around like a kit with ants 


in its pelt?” she meowed crossly. 

Scorchwind gave her an impatient shrug. “I’m okay, 
Yellowfang. This is more important.” 

“Fine!” Yellowfang snapped. “Bleed all over the 
place if you want! You’ve got the sense of an egg if 
you think you can trot around the forest with a hole in 
your flank.” 

With an exaggerated sigh, Scorchwind flopped down 
on his side so Yellowfang could get at his rat bite. The 
sudden movement sent a pulse of pain shooting through 
him, breaking Yellowfang’s careful control. More pain 
flooded over her: from Rowanberry and Brackenfoot; 
from Toadskip, who had torn a claw when fleeing from 
the rats; from Finchflight, whose paw was still hurting. 

Yellowfang paused, taking a breath to clear her 
head. 7 am whole and well. This is not my pain. 

“Can’t you hurry up?” Scorchwind prompted her. 

Yellowfang glared at him as she slapped the poultice 
over his bite and secured it with cobwebs. Then she 
turned to look at Toadskip’s claw. By now 
Sagewhisker was finishing up with the other cats. 

“That’s it,’ she meowed to Yellowfang, who was 
winding cobweb around Toadskip’s paw. “We’re all 


done.” 

Yellowfang sank down. She felt more exhausted 
than if she had done a whole border patrol. 

“All of you should eat now and rest.” Cedarstar 
raised his voice to be heard by all the Clan. “After 
sunhigh there will be traming to prepare for the rat 
attack tomorrow. Raggedpelt will be in charge.” 

Excitement welled up inside Yellowfang, banishing 
some of her weariness. Thats such an honor for 
Raggedpelt! 

She forced herself to her paws and plodded over to 
the tabby tom, who was in close discussion with 
Stonetooth and Brackenfoot. “Raggedpelt, that was a 
great idea,” she meowed. 

Raggedpelt turned to give her a nod. “Thanks, 
Yellowfang.” He spoke lightly, but Yellowfang wanted 
to believe he appreciated what she said. 

Sagewhisker was heading back to the den, and 
Yellowfang realized she should follow her, grabbing up 
the few leftover herbs as she went. Inside the den she 
sighed as she looked at the mess of overturned and 
rummaged herbs, all the different leaves mixed up 
together and scattered in the grass. 


“It’ll be much worse after a battle, believe me,” 
Sagewhisker told her. “Come on, let’s get it cleared 
up.” As they began to sort through the scattered 
leaves, she added, “Raggedpelt has some good ideas. 
He’ll go far, that cat. Maybe even the next deputy.” 

Yellowfang hid a thrilled purr. Raggedpelt could be 
close to achieving his ambition. Then a gust of 
regret shook her like a cold wind. Except I wont be 
his deputy. I'll be his medicine cat... 


The following day Yellowfang woke to see a clear, 
bright sky with not a breath of wind to stir the trees. A 
perfect day for the attack, she thought as she poked 
her head out of the den. 

The Clan was gathering in the clearing, buzzing with 
energy like a swarm of bees as Cedarstar, Stonetooth, 
and Raggedpelt arranged the patrols. 

“Raggedpelt, you’ll lead the last group,” Stonetooth 
announced. “You'll be responsible for killing the rats 
once they’ ve been trapped.” 

‘TIl fight beside you, blow for blow,” Foxheart 
meowed to Raggedpelt; Yellowfang thought sourly that 
she looked as if she were plastered to his side with 
cobwebs. She felt a stab of jealousy as she 


remembered how proud she had felt when she and 
Archeye had killed a rat on their visit to Carrionplace. 
Will I ever feel that kind of pride again? 

Sagewhisker emerged from the den with a bundle of 
herbs. “Come on,” she mewed, her voice muffled by 
the leaves. “We have to be ready to go with them.” 

“We’re going too?” Yellowfang asked, startled. 

Sagewhisker nodded. “We’ll treat injuries as they 
occur, but stay out of the way of the fighting. That’s up 
to the warriors, okay?” Her eyes were stern, and 
Yellowfang knew she was giving her an unspoken 
reminder that she was a medicine cat now. 

Yellowfang went back into the den and loaded up 
with herbs and cobweb. The sticky strands made her 
sneeze as she tried to pick them up. The rats will hear 
me coming long before we get anywhere near 
Carrionplace, she thought, frustrated. Then she 
realized she could stick the clumps of cobweb to her 
thick pelt, far enough from her muzzle that they didn’t 
make her sneeze, and went out again to join 
Sagewhisker, feeling pleased at her new idea. 

The last of the patrols were already heading out of 
the camp. Yellowfang and Sagewhisker brought up the 


rear, following the warriors through the sparse, leaf- 
bare trees and across the marsh. The air was mild, and 
the persistent ice of leaf-bare was beginning to thaw; 
Yellowfang hissed in annoyance when she put her paw 
straight through one sheet of it into the freezing water 
below. After that she and Sagewhisker leaped from 
clump to clump of grass to keep their paws dry. 

At last they drew close to the Carrionplace. 
Yellowfang could smell its stink before she saw the 
dark heaps looming up in front of her. Like before, the 
yellow monsters were quiet; the only sound came from 
big white birds that flapped and shrieked above the 
piles of waste. 

While the patrols approached the Twoleg fence, 
Sagewhisker cast around among the bushes at the 
edge of the marsh. 

“What are you doing?” Yellowfang asked. 

“Finding a place under a bush,” the medicine cat 
replied, “where we can store our herbs and stay out of 
sight during the fighting.” 

“So we’ll be hiding?” Yellowfang mewed in dismay. 
That feels like we’re cowards! 

“No.” Sagewhisker’s eyes were sympathetic as she 


gazed at Yellowfang. “We’ll be keeping ourselves safe 
for when our Clanmates need us.” 

Yellowfang still thought it was a strange way to 
behave, but she made no protest, and wriggled 
underneath a holly bush to lay out the herbs and 
cobweb they had brought. Her paws tingled with the 
urge to help as she watched Raggedpelt and his patrol 
pad up to the Twoleg fence. Raggedpelt found a hole 
in the silver mesh, and he and Featherstorm enlarged it 
with their teeth and claws to let cats in and rats out. 
Meanwhile, Foxheart and Wolfstep started dragging 
branches up to build the trap. 

“Look what we found!” Newtspeck called from the 
edge of the marsh. She, Frogtail, and Lizardstripe were 
rolling a small tree trunk in front of them. “We 
managed to pull it out of the ground,” she panted as 
they reached the fence. “Its roots are rotten, so it 
wasn’t hard. I thought it would make a good vantage 
point for us to stand and jump down on the rats.” 

Raggedpelt nodded. “You're right; it will.” 

As the walls of the trap took shape he checked 
them carefully, leaping up on top to make sure they 
would bear a cat’s weight. At one point the wall 


collapsed under him; Yellowfang gasped as he 
vanished in a whirl of flailing limbs and flying branches. 
But a moment later he crawled out, shaking debris 
from his pelt. 

“Build it up again,” he ordered, “and put a stronger 
branch at the bottom this time.” 

Raggedpelt stepped back while the rest of his patrol 
worked on the repairs. Yellowfang slipped out from 
under the holly bush and padded over to him. “Good 
luck,” she murmured. 

Raggedpelt looked at her. “I wish you were fighting 
alongside me,” he mewed. 

Yellowfang turned her head away. “I will be here,” 
she whispered. 

She expected that Raggedpelt would walk away 
from her in disgust; instead she felt his nose touch her 
ear. “T’ll see you after the battle,” he promised. 

A screech sounded from somewhere inside the 
Carrionplace, teling Raggedpelt that the other patrols 
were in place. Raggedpelt checked that his own patrol 
was ready, then yowled in reply. 

“Yellowfang! Over here!” 

Yellowfang looked around to see Sagewhisker 


beckoning to her from under the bush. Reluctantly she 
bounded back to jom her, but stayed outside the 
branches to watch the attack. She realized she was 
holding her breath. 

Silence followed the yowls, broken after a few 
heartbeats by faint sounds of scrabbling and hissing. 
The cats are chasing the rats out of their dens in 
the waste! Then Yellowfang heard squeaks growing 
rapidly louder, and the sound of scratching paws. She 
craned her neck forward, peering through the silver 
mesh. 

Suddenly Yellowfang spotted a rat hurtling out of the 
heap of waste. It swerved away from the hole that 
Raggedpelt’s patrol had made, but was driven back on 
course by Nutwhisker leaping down to block its way. 
The first rat was followed by more, and more and 
more—more rats than Yellowfang had ever seen 
before. At the same time, cats began to appear, leaping 
down from the waste to steer the rats toward the hole 
in the mesh. 

Raggedpelt’s patrol was waiting on top of the 
barriers, crouched and ready to pounce. The rats 
swirled at the base of the fence, beginning to panic as 


they realized they were trapped. Yellowfang saw 
Brackenfoot jump into the center of the heaving mass 
and shove one toward the hole. 

“That way, stupid flea-pelt!” he snarled. 

The other rats fled after it, thinking they had found a 
way of escape. But their squeaks grew louder when 
they realized that cats were waiting on that side of the 
fence, too. Raggedpelt’s patrol jumped down one by 
one, grabbing a rat and dealing the deathblow, and 
scrambling back out with the fresh-kill in their jaws. 

“It’s working!” Foxheart yowled. 

“Watch out for their teeth!” Wolfstep panted as he 
dragged out a rat almost as big as he was. 

Its all happening so fast! Yellowfang thought, her 
gaze fixed on Raggedpelt. She held her breath every 
time he disappeared down into the trap, and let out a 
gasp of relief when he reappeared with a dead rat. 

Then a yelp from beyond the fence distracted her. 
Yellowfang let out a wail of fear when she saw that 
the cats on the far side of the fence were surrounded. 
More and more rats had poured out of the pile, too 
many to fit into the trap. With nowhere to escape, they 
had turned on the warriors, clawing and biting, and the 


warriors were badly outnumbered, trapped against the 
fence while waves of rats crashed over them. 

Raggedpelt was the first in his patrol to notice what 
was happening. “Stop killing!” he yowled. “We have to 
help the others!” 

But the hole in the fence was blocked by terrified 
rats; Raggedpelt and his cats had to scramble over the 
silver mesh in a desperate attempt to help their 
Clanmates. 

Yellowfang’s belly clenched as Stonetooth went 
down with a couple of huge rats clinging to him. More 
cats rushed to help him, but the swarming rats blocked 
their way. Cedarstar disappeared under a wave of 
brown bodies and lashing hairless tails. 

“I can’t bear this!” Yellowfang exclaimed. “We 
can’t just stand here and do nothing!” 

Sagewhisker slid out from under the bush and rested 
a paw on her shoulder. “We have to protect 
ourselves,” she meowed. 

Yellowfang stared at her. “There’s no point if we 
have to watch all our Clanmates die!” 

Shaking off Sagewhisker’s restraining paw, 
Yellowfang rushed up to the fence and flung herself 


over it. Just below her a huge rat was attacking 
Deerleap; Yellowfang leaped straight down on top of it 
and killed it with a single blow to its neck. 

All around her, ShadowClan cats were fighting for 
their lives. Yellowfang spotted Foxheart battling two 
rats at once, killing both of them in a whirl of teeth and 
claws. Nutwhisker and Rowanberry dragged off a rat 
that had fastened its teeth in Brightflower’s shoulder; 
then all three cats turned to help Stonetooth to his 
paws and fend off the rats that were attacking him. 
Yellowfang felt the gnawing of sharp teeth in her 
muscles, and concentrated on blocking it out. 

She caught a glimpse of Raggedpelt diving into the 
snarl of rats swarming over Cedarstar. For a heartbeat 
he vanished, then fought his way up again, dragging 
Cedarstar with him, his teeth in the Clan leader’s 
scruff. 

“Clear the hole!” he yowled. 

Yellowfang, Archeye, and Mudclaw fought their 
way through the battling rats to the hole in the fence. 
Yellowfang felt a savage satisfaction as she sank her 
claws into rat after rat and hurled them out of the way. 
Her warrior training flooded back and she focused on 


nothing but slicing and slashing, feeling warm bodies 
split beneath her claws. 

Fighting together, the three cats managed to clear 
the hole so that Raggedpelt could pull Cedarstar 
through. Brightflower followed with a _ feebly 
staggering Stonetooth. Shoulder-to-shoulder with her 
Clanmates, Yellowfang fought the rats off, keeping 
them away from the hole so that the rest of her Clan 
could struggle through. 

When the last cat was out, Foxheart and Mudclaw 
pushed the branches of the barrier up against the hole 
to block the rats inside, though some of them were 
already starting to squeeze through the mesh into 
ShadowClan territory. 

“Back to the camp!” Raggedpelt screeched. 

The cats fled, the stronger warriors helping the ones 
who were badly injured. Yellowfang spotted 
Sagewhisker fleeing with them, abandoning the herbs 
they had brought, and raced to catch up. 





CHAPTER 21 
w& 


“a 

Yellowfang paused for breath, taking a moment to 
control the pain she felt from her Clanmates. Around 
her the camp was in chaos; injured warriors lay 
everywhere in the clearing. Her mouth was flooded 
with the taste of bitter herbs. She knew she had to eke 
out the remaining stocks as sparingly as she could, for 
so little was left. 

I wish we hadnt had to leave so much under that 
holly bush. 

Two warriors in particular worried Yellowfang: 
Stonetooth, who had been bitten badly on his hind leg, 
and Hollyflower, who had a bite in her neck. She 
wanted to consult Sagewhisker, but the medicine cat 
had vanished with Cedarstar into his den, and hadn’t 
yet reappeared. 

Eventually Sagewhisker emerged from among the 
oak roots, looking somber, and padded over to 
Yellowfang. “Cedarstar has lost a life,” she reported 
quietly. “It was hard, but he’s recovering now.” 

Yellowfang’s eyes widened in shock. She had never 


known the Clan leader to lose a life before. “How 
many lives does he have left?” she asked. 

“One,” Sagewhisker replied, her eyes darkening 
with worry. “But keep that to yourself. Only medicine 
cats know how many lives the Clan leader has.” 

Yellowfang nodded. 

“What about the other cats?” Sagewhisker 
prompted. “Let me see what you’ve done.” 

Yellowfang led her around the clearing, showing her 
the poultices she had applied, the wounds covered in 
cobweb, and told her which cats had been given poppy 
seeds for the pain. 

“Very good,’ Sagewhisker commented. “When 
you’ve had more practice you won’t need to use quite 
so much cobweb, and you can be a bit more generous 
with the poppy seed for full-grown warriors.” 

“We don’t have much left,’ Yellowfang reminded 
her. 

“True.” Sagewhisker let out a sigh. “This is one of 
the worst defeats I can remember. The danger now is 
infection; rat bites can be very poisonous. We’ ll have 
to keep a close eye on Hollyflower and Stonetooth.” 

‘TIl go out later and look for some more burdock 


root,” Yellowfang promised. “Or if I can’t find any I'll 
get wild garlic.” 

She padded over to the spot by the tiny stream at 
the edge of the camp, where she had piled up a heap 
of moss. Gripping a bundle in her jaws, she dipped it in 
the water and carried it over to Raggedpelt. The tabby 
tom was lying near the fresh-kill pile, curled up tightly 
on himself. He had taken a few deep scratches on his 
nose, which were going to leave scars. Yellowfang’s 
belly clenched with pity, and it was a struggle for her to 
block out his pain. 

“Here, I’ve brought you some wet moss,’ she 
mewed. 

“I don’t want it,’ Raggedpelt mumbled, not looking 
at her. “Other cats need it more.” 

“Other cats have had some,” Yellowfang assured 
him, laying the moss down beside his nose. “I’m a 
medicine cat now. You have to listen to me, and you 
will have a drink.” 

Raggedpelt let out a groan, but he extended his 
tongue and took a couple of laps at the moss. “This is 
all my fault,” he groaned. “I nearly killed my Clan!” 

“No.” Yellowfang crouched down beside him. “The 


plan was brilliant. It could have worked. There were 
just too many rats.” 

“I should have thought of that!” Raggedpelt 
snapped. 

While Yellowfang was trying to figure out how she 
could reassure him, Crowtail limped up and halted 
beside Raggedpelt. “Cedarstar wants to see you,” she 
announced. 

Raggedpelt blinked despairingly up at her. “He’s 
probably going to order me to leave the Clan,” he 
muttered, hauling himself to his paws and heading 
toward the Clan leader’s den. 

Yellowfang fought with panic. Cedarstar cant 
send Raggedpelt away! Desperate to know what 
would happen, she followed Raggedpelt, and to her 
relief he let her come with him. Inside the dark den 
beneath the oak roots, Cedarstar looked weak, his eyes 
a little glazed as he struggled to sit up. 

Raggedstar hung his head as he entered, his tail 
drooping. “I’m sorry,’ he meowed. “I have failed. 
Punish me as you wish.” 

For a moment Cedarstar was silent. “We lost the 
battle,” he rasped. “But you did not fail. You saved me 


from the rats, and you did everything possible to help 
the rest of your Clanmates.” 

“But—” Raggedpelt tried to interrupt. 

Cedarstar silenced him with a raised paw. “Hold 
your head high, Raggedpelt. There is a chance of 
defeat in every battle. You gave your all, and I ask for 
nothing more.” 

“I ask for more than you do, then!” Raggedpelt 
flashed out. 

“You should be kinder to yourself,’ the Clan leader 
responded. “We can all learn lessons from today. This 
method of trapping can be used with other prey, one 
way or another. For now, the Clan must concentrate on 
healing and regaining our strength.” He dipped his 
head toward Raggedpelt. “I am honored to call you a 
Clanmate. And this proves you are more than ready 
for an apprentice. Cloudkit will be yours, as soon as 
he’s ready.” 

Raggedpelt stared at him. “Ththank you, 
Cedarstar!” he stammered. 

The Clan leader let out a purr. “Go and rest now.” 

Yellowfang was delighted as she followed 
Raggedpelt away from Cedarstar’s den. But the tabby 


warrior’s tail still dragged behind him and his shoulders 
were hunched. Cedarstar’s praise hadn’t comforted 
him at all. 

Catching up to him, Yellowfang whispered, “You 
should be proud, like Cedarstar said.” 

Raggedpelt glared at her. “I will never be proud of 
defeat!” he hissed. 

“Well, you stupid furball, I’m proud of you,” 
Yellowfang snapped, letting him walk away. 


Days passed, but the thaw never came. Snow lay 
thick on the ground, driving prey deep into their holes, 
and gray skies threatened more to come. 

On the night of the full moon Yellowfang peered out 
of her den, expecting to see the sky covered with 
clouds. To her surprise the silver circle shone down 
through a gap in the dense gray covering. 

“There’ll be a Gathering at Fourtrees tonight,” 
Sagewhisker mewed, coming to join her at the 
entrance to the den. “Are you ready?” 

Yellowfang took a deep breath. “Yes.” 

This would be her first Gathering as a medicine cat 
apprentice. Though more than a moon had passed 


since she had made her decision, the previous 
Gathering hadn’t taken place, as clouds had obscured 
the moon. She followed Sagewhisker out into the 
clearing where the cats who had been chosen to attend 
the Gathering were assembling around Cedarstar. The 
Clan leader had recovered well from the battle against 
the rats, but Stonetooth was looking frail, and 
Yellowfang noticed that he limped badly when he 
walked. 

As she waited to move off, Yellowfang found that 
she was making a quick check of all her Clanmates, 
looking for signs of injury or sickness. Since she had 
become a medicine cat, she had gotten much better at 
blocking out pain; now she could do it instinctively, 
though sometimes it could be useful to let herself feel 
it, to make it easier to treat a sick or wounded cat. 
Now she kept the pain almost completely in check, 
instead looking for signs of bright eyes and healthy fur, 
and checking on how wounds were healing. 

Cedarstar led the way out of the camp and through 
the forest toward the tunnel under the Thunderpath. 
Yellowfang would have liked to walk with Raggedpelt, 
but Foxheart was keeping close to his side. 


“That was a great training session today,’ she 
mewed to him. “Do you think we could get together 
sometime and practice that new move?” 

Determined not to listen, Yellowfang fell in beside 
Rowanberry. “I hear you caught a squirrel today,” she 
began. “Littlebird and Lizardfang shared it, and they 
said it was really tasty.” 

“That’s good,” Rowanberry meowed. “I—” 

“Hey, Rowanberry!” 

Yellowfang’s sister broke off as Wolfstep called out 
to her. “Sorry, I have to ...” Rowanberry scampered 
off before she finished what she was saying. 

Yellowfang watched her leave, trying not to feel 
hurt. After a few heartbeats Sagewhisker joined her. 
“Tt can be lonely,” the old medicine cat murmured, as if 
she could read Yellowfang’s thoughts. “But your 
Clanmates will always need you, more than you or 
they realize.” 

WindClan had already arrived at Fourtrees by the 
time the ShadowClan cats reached the hollow, and 
ThunderClan arrived at almost the same moment. 
Yellowfang glanced around with interest as she made 
her way through the clumps of fern that covered the 


slope. Cats were everywhere, bounding across her 
path, meeting together in groups from every Clan, and 
chattering excitedly. 

“We chased a fox all the way across the moor!” a 
WindClan cat was boasting to a couple of ThunderClan 
apprentices. 

“Yeah,” his Clanmate added. “He won’t be back 
anytime soon.” 

Cedarstar leaped up to the top of the Great Rock. 
“Let the Clans gather!” he yowled. 

Pinestar and Heatherstar scrambled up beside him, 
but some cat protested that they couldn’t begin the 
Gathering without RiverClan. While they argued, 
Yellowfang spotted a cat with a blue-gray pelt standing 
by herself under an arching fern. ThunderClan scent 
drifted from her. J havent spoken to her before, 
Yellowfang thought, turning her paw steps that way. 

But before she reached the blue-furred cat, the 
RiverClan cats began pouring into the clearing. A 
sturdy tabby tom padded up to the ThunderClan cat 
and settled down beside her, almost knocking her over. 
Yellowfang stared at his twisted jaw for a moment, 
wondering how he got his injury. She didn’t want to 


interrupt the two of them, so she turned away and 
went to jom Sagewhisker and the other medicine cats 
at the foot of the Great Rock. 

As she approached, Featherwhisker rose to his 
paws and came to meet her. “Greetings, Yellowfang,” 
he meowed. Yellowfang noticed that while his words 
were warm, his eyes were wary. “How are things 
going? I see that some of your Clanmates are battle- 
scarred. Has there been trouble recently?” 

Yellowfang felt the fur on her neck and shoulders 
beginning to bristle up. “Nothing we couldn’t handle,” 
she replied curtly. 

“Keep your pelt on,’ Featherwhisker told her. 
“We’re medicine cats. We can tell one another 
anything.” 

“And if there’s anything you need to know,” 
Sagewhisker added, appearing at Featherwhisker’s 
side, “rest assured we’ll tell you.” 

There was no chance for Featherwhisker to say any 
more, because at that moment Pinestar of 
ThunderClan stepped forward to the edge of the Great 
Rock and announced that the Gathering would begin. 

Yellowfang listened as the other Clan leaders gave 


their news. There wasn’t much of interest; she 
guessed that all the Clans had been hard-pressed 
during the cold leaf-bare, but none of the leaders would 
be prepared to admit tt. 

Finally Cedarstar paced to the front of the Great 
Rock and looked out across the assembled Clans. “It is 
with sadness that I must announce our deputy, 
Stonetooth, is moving to the elders’ den,’ he 
announced. 

A gasp of astonishment came from the ShadowClan 
cats. Looking around, Yellowfang realized that none of 
them, except for Stonetooth himself, knew anything 
about this. 

“Stonetooth! Stonetooth!” his Clan called. 

The deputy, standing at the base of the Great Rock, 
dipped his head solemnly. 

“But it’s almost moonhigh!” Yellowfang heard 
Rowanberry whisper to Foxheart. “Cedarstar will have 
to announce the new deputy now!” 

Yellowfang could sense that tension in the clearing 
was building. Cats from the other Clans were looking 
at one another, speculating on who the new 
ShadowClan deputy would be. Deputies were normally 


appointed within the Clan, not in public like this. 

“Raggedpelt will take his place,” Cedarstar went on. 

“Raggedpelt! Raggedpelt!” His Clanmates yowled 
his name to the sky. Yellowfang tried to yowl louder 
than any of them, shocked and delighted. 

Raggedpelt rose to his paws, his expression 
unreadable as he padded to the Great Rock to take his 
place. Still yowling his name, her heart bursting with 
pride, Yellowfang tried to catch Raggedpelt’s eye, but 
he wasn’t looking at her. 

Cedarstar waited for the noise to die down, then 
continued. “There is one other piece of news to give 
you. Sagewhisker, this is for you to tell.” 

Sagewhisker rose to her paws; Yellowfang felt a 
pang of nervousness, knowing what the medicine cat 
was about to say. Gazing out across the Clans, 
Sagewhisker meowed, “ShadowClan has a new 
medicine cat. Yellowfang has agreed to become my 
apprentice.” 

A few cats from ShadowClan called Yellowfang’s 
name, but after the excitement of Raggedpelt’s 
promotion, the news didn’t cause a big reaction. 
Yellowfang was relieved not to have too much 


attention on her. At last she managed to catch 
Raggedpelt’s eye, and was startled at the sadness in 
his gaze as he looked at her. One day they would be 
leader and medicine cat of ShadowClan. Surely that 
was cause for celebration? 

A stab of pain pierced Yellowfang’s heart. Is that 
my pain, or his? This is my destiny—isn t it? 


The thaw set in; rain fell day after day, filling every 
hollow and turning the floor of the camp to mud. 
Hissing with annoyance as she splashed through the 
waterlogged forest, Yellowfang paused to taste the air. 
A fresh, green tang led her to a fallen tree trunk, and 
she crouched down to wriggle her way underneath tt. 

“Yellowfang!” 

Startled, Yellowfang jumped and banged her head on 
the underside of the trunk. “Mouse dung!” she spat. 
Scrambling to her paws, she turned to see Raggedpelt 
standing behind her. 

“That hurt!” she complained. “Are you mouse- 
brained, or what?” 

“Sorry.” Raggedpelt blinked at her. “I had to talk to 
you, away from the camp.” He hesitated, took a 
breath, and continued, “Yellowfang, are you sure 


you’ve made the right choice?” 

Yellowfang gazed back at him. For once he wasn’t 
trying to quarrel with her. His voice just sounded sad, 
full of such deep sorrow that there was no bottom to tt. 

“I miss you,” he went on. “I’m going to be the 
leader of ShadowClan, and I wanted to have you as 
my deputy.” 

“TIl be your medicine cat,” Yellowfang mewed. 

“You know I want more than that,” Raggedpelt told 
her. He took a pace toward her and his scent flooded 
over her. His whiskers brushed her ear. “I know you 
are a medicine cat now,” he whispered, “but that 
doesn’t change the way I feel about you.” 

“My feelings haven’t changed either,’ Yellowfang 
whispered back, her voice quivering. “But this is my 
destiny! StarClan wants me to be a medicine cat!” 

“They can have your skill with herbs.” Raggedpelt’s 
voice grew stronger. “They can even walk in your 
dreams. But they can’t have all of you. If we do all the 
duties expected of us, how can this be wrong? As long 
as no cat knows, everything can be as it was before. 
This can be our secret, shared with no one else.” 

I wonder what Silverflame would say, Yellowfang 


thought. But then, she told me to have courage in 
my own instincts. And my instincts are telling me 
that this is my destiny too. 

Yellowfang leaned closer to Raggedpelt, feeling the 
warmth of his fur, and crushed down a feeling of guilt. 
“I can keep a secret,” she murmured. 





CHAPTER 22 
w& 


“~ 

Yellowfang watched a scarlet leaf spiraling down 
from a branch above her head. At the last moment she 
sprang up and clawed it out of the air, pinning it to the 
ground with a triumphant yowl More scarlet and 
golden leaves tumbled from the trees. Happiness 
bubbled up inside her. Throughout newleaf and 
greenleaf she and Raggedpelt had kept their promise to 
each other, and no cat in ShadowClan knew that they 
had been meeting in the remotest parts of the territory. 
The only cats who could possibly know were their 
ancestors in StarClan—and since she had received no 
signs warning of terrible consequences, Yellowfang 
had begun to believe that StarClan would allow her to 
be both Raggedpelt’s mate and a medicine cat. 

As she clambered up again Raggedpelt popped out 
from behind the tree and pounced on her, throwing her 
to the ground again and landing on top of her among 
the crackling leaves. 

“Stop it, mouse-brain!” she gasped. “I can’t 
breathe!” 


Raggedpelt’s face was close to hers, his amber eyes 
gleaming. “Admit defeat, then.” 

“Okay, okay. Just get off me!” 

Raggedpelt rolled over with a purr. “You can’t 
escape me,” he meowed. “TIl always be here.” 

“T should be looking for herbs,” Yellowfang told him, 
sitting up and shaking scraps of dried leaf from her 
pelt. “What’s Sagewhisker going to say if I come back 
empty-pawed?” 

“There’s plenty of time,’ Raggedpelt assured her, 
stretching out lazily. 

“But it’s leaf-fall already. We have to build up our 
stocks of herbs before the first frosts. Remember how 
short of supplies we were last leaf-bare?” 

“We'll go back soon. I should be preparing 
Cloudpaw for his final assessment.” Raggedpelt let out 
a snort of amusement. “Do you know, that 
scatterbrained apprentice still hasn’t learned that 
squirrels can climb trees faster than he can? I have to 
keep reminding him to stalk them in the open.” 

Guilt flooded over Yellowfang. “Then we have to go 
now.” 

Raggedpelt gave her a gentle nudge. “We aren’t 


hurting any cat,” he reassured her. “We meet all our 
responsibilities. The Clan is as safe and protected as it 
can be.” He pressed his muzzle against her shoulder. 
“This is still our secret.” 

Yellowfang couldn’t suppress a rising purr. /ts true. 
These times with Raggedpelt are the happiest 
moments I’ve ever known. 

“Don’t forget,” Raggedpelt went on, leaning close to 
her again, “you’re only an apprentice. You can still 
change your mind. I would make sure that you would 
never have to fight in a battle. P’ Il be leader soon, after 
all, and I’ll do everything to keep you safe.” 

Curled warmly into his fur, Yellowfang was tempted 
for a heartbeat. But then she thought of everything she 
had learned from Sagewhisker, and she knew again 
that this was a path she had to follow, at least for a 
while. She shook her head. 

Raggedpelt gave her a gentle nudge. ‘TIl persuade 
you yet,” he murmured. 

Before Yellowfang could respond, a terrible 
screeching filled the forest. Together the two cats 
leaped to their paws. 

“Its one of our patrols!” Raggedpelt exclaimed. 


“They’re being attacked!” 

Shoulder to shoulder, Yellowfang and Raggedpelt 
bolted through the trees, following the sound. 
Heartbeats later they came to a clearing. Staring 
across the open space, Yellowfang saw four of her 
Clanmates grappling with four huge rogues. The stink 
of Twolegplace caught her in the throat, making her 
gag. 

Raggedpelt let out a roar of fury and leaped into the 
battle. He flung aside a rogue who was pinning 
Rowanberry down, and crashed into the flank of 
another who was lunging for Blizzardwing’s throat. 
They fled screeching, and the other two, realizing they 
were now outnumbered, raced after them. 

“Don’t come back!” Raggedpelt yowled after them. 

Yellowfang padded into the clearmg. Rowanberry 
scrambled to her paws and helped Blizzardwing up. 
Wolfstep flung himself in pursuit of the rogues, only to 
come back at a sharp order from Raggedpelt. All three 
of them looked battered, but Yellowfang could see that 
their injuries weren’t serious. 

“It was my fault!” Rowanberry gasped. “I was 
leading the patrol. I should have scented them, but they 


Jumped out on us.” 

“They were just looking for trouble,” Raggedpelt 
snarled. 

Yellowfang scanned the clearing. She had seen four 
of her Clanmates fighting, but she could only account 
for three. Where's the fourth cat? 

Then she caught a glimpse of white fur among a 
clump of ferns, and raced over to see Cloudpaw, lying 
ominously still. 

“Oh, no!” she yelped. 

“What’s he doing here?” Raggedpelt gasped as he 
came to stand beside her and look down at his 
motionless apprentice. 

“He ... he couldn’t find you,” Rowanberry admitted. 
“So he asked if he could come on the border patrol to 
practice his scenting skills before his final 
assessment.” She hesitated, then added reluctantly, “I 
let him take the lead. He didn’t pick up the scent of the 
intruders until it was too late.” 

Trying to ignore the stricken look in Raggedpelt’s 
eyes, Yellowfang bent over the apprentice. At first she 
couldn’t see anything wrong with him, so she carefully 
let go of her control so that she could feel his pain. At 


once agony surged through her. She felt as if some 
fierce creature was inside her, trying to claw its way 
out through her belly. Her head reeling from it, her legs 
beginning to buckle, she reached out and gently turned 
Cloudpaw over. His belly had been slashed open; the 
grass underneath him was scarlet from his blood. 

“Is he dead?” Rowanberry whispered. 

Yellowfang shook her head; she had already spotted 
the faint rise and fall of Cloudpaw’s chest. Forcing 
herself to block off the pain again, she turned to the 
other cats. “Wolfstep, run back to camp and warn 
Sagewhisker. Blizzardwing, find me some cobwebs— 
try under those bushes. I have to stop the bleeding 
before we can move him.” 

‘TIl carry him,” Raggedpelt mewed hoarsely. 

Once Yellowfang had covered the wound with 
cobwebs, Raggedpelt insisted on taking Cloudpaw on 
his shoulders, even though the apprentice was nearly 
full-grown. Staggering under his weight, with 
Yellowfang and Blizzardwing on either side, he 
struggled back to the clearing. 

Wolfstep had already alerted the Clan, who gathered 
around as Raggedpelt carried his apprentice through 


the tunnel. Nettlespot let out a piteous wail when she 
saw her son. 

“My precious kit! Save him! You must save him!” 

“We’ll do our best,” Yellowfang promised her. 

The two newest apprentices, Nightpaw and 
Clawpaw, watched in alarm as Raggedpelt progressed 
slowly across the clearing, until their mentors, Foxheart 
and Crowtail, came up and swept them away. 

At last Raggedpelt reached the medicine cat’s den 
and laid Cloudpaw gently down on a bed of moss. 
Sagewhisker flicked him with her tail as he tried to 
settle down beside his apprentice. 

“No, Raggedpelt,” she mewed. “You’ve done all you 
can. It’s time to let us take over.” 

Raggedpelt looked as if he was about to argue, then 
rose to his paws in silence. With one last look at 
Cloudpaw he left the den, his head and tail drooping. 

Yellowfang watched as Sagewhisker bent over 
Cloudpaw and eased the cobwebs away from his 
wound. When she had laid the gash bare, the medicine 
cat looked up, meeting Yellowfang’s gaze. 

“It’s very serious,” she mewed. “It might be kinder 
to let StarClan take him now.” 


“No!” Yellowfang hissed. “This cat will not die! PI 
care for him myself, if you’re wiling to give up.” 
Furious with Sagewhisker for admitting defeat, 
Yellowfang went to the entrance of the den and stuck 
her head out. “Hey!” she called to Nutwhisker, who 
was padding past. “Fetch me some wet moss—as 
quickly as you can!” 

Her brother dashed off and Yellowfang went to the 
herb stores and uncovered horsetail, goldenrod, and 
marigold, which she mixed together in a poultice. 
Crouching beside Cloudpaw, she licked the wound until 
it was as clean as she could make it, then bound the 
poultice in place with strands of cobweb from the 
thornbushes. After a moment she felt Sagewhisker 
beside her, holding the leaves in place while 
Yellowfang secured the cobweb. 

“I won’t stop you from trying to help him,” the old 
medicine cat told her. “But you must be prepared for 
the worst.” 

By the time the wound was dressed, Nutwhisker 
was back with a jawful of dripping moss. Yellowfang 
squeezed some water into Cloudpaw’s mouth. He was 
still unconscious. She watched the slight movement of 


his chest, the only thing that told her he was still alive. 
Icy fear froze Yellowfang from ears to tail-tip at the 
thought that those feeble breaths might stop altogether. 
The sun was going down behind the trees and a chilly 
wind rose. 

‘Tl stay with him,” Yellowfang told Sagewhisker. 
She settled down beside him. “T’ll keep him warm.” 

Sagewhisker nodded and went out to check the 
scratches of the other cats who had been in the fight. 
Darkness had fallen by the time she returned. She 
came over for another look at Cloudpaw, then curled 
into her own nest. 

“Call me if there’s a problem,’ she mewed to 
Yellowfang before closing her eyes. 

Yellowfang sat beside the injured apprentice, gazing 
up at the sky as the warriors of StarClan emerged. 
“Was this our fault?” she whispered. “Did it happen 
because Raggedpelt and I were together? Please, 
StarClan, send me a sign, and if you’re angry with us, 
please don’t punish this apprentice. He’s too young to 
come to you yet.” 

But the stars glittered coldly above her, and she 
didn’t know if her plea had been heard. 


Weariness eventually overcame Yellowfang and she 
fell into a doze. Then she felt a cat gently nudging her; 
she started up, thinking that Cloudpaw needed her, only 
to find herself standing in a windswept marsh. The cat 
beside her was holding out a leaf of comfrey. 
Yellowfang didn’t recognize him, but he bore the scent 
of ShadowClan, and the scent of herbs too in his thick 
gray pelt. As she took the leaf, Yellowfang heard a thin 
wailing by her paws and looked down to see a tiny 
tabby kit with blood trickling from a scratched ear. 

Yellowfang bent her head and chewed up the 
comfrey leaf so that the juice trickled onto the kit’s ear. 
At once the wound closed up as if it had never been 
there, leaving no scar. 

Raising her head again, Yellowfang saw the gray cat 
was holding out a different leaf. Beyond him was 
another cat and another, a line stretching out into the 
distance as far as Yellowfang could see. They were 
passing herbs to one another, sending the leaves along 
the line to Yellowfang in a hushed silence. 

They ’re all medicine cats! Yellowfang realized with 
astonishment. And I’m one of them. At the end of the 
line, treating this cat, but with all of their support 


and wisdom to help me. A feeling of deep peace 
crept over her. 

She took another leaf, catmint this time, and held it 
out to a little brown kit who was coughing badly. The 
kit swallowed it, stopped coughing, and faded away. A 
mist rose and blotted out the other cats and the 
marshland where they stood. 

Yellowfang was roused by a whimpering noise close 
by. Cloudpaw squirmed in his nest, letting out feeble 
cries. His whole body was burning with fever. 
Yellowfang dripped more water into his mouth, and laid 
a paw gently on his shoulder in an effort to stop the 
movement. “Keep still, little one,’ she murmured. 
“You'll open your wound again.” 

The moment he settled, she got up to visit the herb 
stores again, finding what she needed more by scent 
than touch in the faint starlight. 

Sagewhisker stirred behind her. “How is he?” she 
asked, her voice blurry with sleep. 

“Feverish,” Yellowfang responded, finally finding the 
herb she was looking for. 

“Cloudpaw!” 

The yowl startled Yellowfang, and she turned to see 


Nettlespot pushing her way between the boulders into 
the den. “I have to see my son!” she meowed. 

Sagewhisker rose from her nest and blocked 
Nettlespot before she could reach Cloudpaw. “It’s the 
middle of the night,” she told her. “Cloudpaw mustn’t 
be disturbed. Come back tomorrow.” 

“But I need to see him!” Nettlespot insisted. 

“Not now.” Sagewhisker’s voice was gentle. 
“Cloudpaw needs his rest. I promise you, if he gets 
worse, we will call you.” 

Nettlespot hesitated, then turned and left the den, 
her tail drooping. Yellowfang was glad to see her go, 
though she could understand her fear. 

“It’s hard for her,’ Sagewhisker commented, as she 
padded over to look down at Cloudpaw. Her 
expression grew even more worried. “Yellowfang,” 
she whispered, “you can’t save every cat.” 

“No, but I can save this one,” Yellowfang growled. 
“T’m giving him dandelion. That should bring the fever 
down and help him to sleep.” 

Sagewhisker nodded. “Mix in a couple of borage 
leaves,” she suggested. 

Yellowfang chewed up the herbs and thrust the pulp 


between Cloudpaw’s jaws. As the night wore on she 
repeated the treatment, not caring how low the stocks 
of the herbs were growing. Cloudpaw must live! 
Nothing else matters! 

As dawn light began to seep into the sky there was 
movement at the entrance to the den, and Raggedpelt 
pushed his way between the boulders. “How is he?” 
he croaked. 

“Holding his own,” Yellowfang replied. She felt her 
heart ache as she watched the tabby warrior bend 
over the motionless form of his apprentice. As 
Raggedpelt drew away, she met his gaze. “I will save 
him,” she vowed. 

She couldn’t speak of what they had been doing 
when Cloudpaw was hurt, and she could see that 
Raggedpelt would never speak of it either. Their guilt 
ran too deep. 

“T’ve ordered more border patrols,” Raggedpelt told 
her, “to make sure those rogues don’t come back.” 

Yellowfang nodded. “Don’t let the apprentices patrol 
there until we’re sure it’s safe,” she advised. 

Raggedpelt gave a brusque nod. “Of course not.” 

He left, and Yellowfang remained by Cloudpaw’s 


side. Throughout the day, one by one, the members of 
ShadowClan crept into the den to visit him. Yellowfang 
kept guard over the apprentice, not letting any of his 
visitors stay for long—even Nettlespot, whose panic 
over her kit was no help at all. 

As the sun was going down again, Sagewhisker 
tapped Yellowfang on the shoulder with her tail. “It’s 
time you got out of here for a while,’ she meowed. 
“No,” she went on, forestallng Yellowfang’s protest. 
“You can’t care for Cloudpaw if you fall ill yourself. 
Go for a walk around the camp, have some fresh-kill 
and a drink, and you’ll feel much better. I'll keep an 
eye on him.” 

Reluctantly Yellowfang stumbled into the clearing 
and wandered around in a daze, aware of the glances 
of other cats. Every one of them knew how ill 
Cloudpaw was. 

Brightflower bounded up to her and steered her 
toward the fresh-kill pile. “Here’s a good juicy vole,” 
she mewed, pushing it toward Yellowfang. “I’m going 
to sit with you and make sure you eat every bite!” 

Yellowfang was sure she couldn’t choke down a 
single mouthful, but as soon as she tasted the prey she 


realized how ravenously hungry she was. She gulped 
down the fresh-kill and went for a drink at the tiny 
stream at the edge of the camp before making her way 
back to her den. 

Another long night’s vigil with Cloudpaw stretched 
in front of her. The apprentice still had not recovered 
consciousness, but Yellowfang, watching him as if he 
were a piece of prey she was about to pounce on, 
thought that his breathing seemed a little stronger. 
Once again she raised her eyes to StarClan, shining in 
frosty splendor above her. “Take me, if you must,” she 
prayed with all her heart. “But save him. None of this 
is his fault. I’m so sorry.” 

Eventually, worn out by grief and guilt, Yellowfang 
dropped into a light, troubled sleep. She woke to find 
Sagewhisker prodding her in the shoulder. Panicking, 
she sprang to her paws. “Is it Cloudpaw?” she 
demanded. “Is he worse?” 

Sagewhisker’s eyes were gleaming. “No,” she 
purred. “He’s waking up. He’s still in a lot of pain, but 
he’s asking for water.” 

Yellowfang gazed down at the apprentice. His blue 
eyes were glazed, but his breathing was normal and 


the fever was down. 

“T’m so thirsty!” he mewed. “And my belly hurts!” 

“Tt will hurt for a while yet,’ Yellowfang told him, 
while Sagewhisker brought him more wet moss. “But it 
means you're getting better. Now keep still and Ill put 
a fresh dressing on your wound.” 

Once Yellowfang had fastened a new poultice in 
place, she left Sagewhisker to look after Cloudpaw 
while she went in search of Raggedpelt. She found him 
in the clearing, organizing the day’s patrols. He turned 
away from the other cats and bounded up to her with a 
desperate question in his eyes. 

“Cloudpaw has woken up,” Yellowfang meowed 
before he could say anything. “He’s not out of trouble 
yet, but the worst of the infection has cleared.” 

Raggedpelt closed his eyes and let out a vast sigh of 
relief. “Thank you,” he murmured. 


“A short walk, mind you,’ Sagewhisker instructed. 
“Just as far as the fresh-kill pile and back. You don’t 
want to tire yourself out on your first time out of the 
den.” 

Two more days had passed. Cloudpaw was 
recovering fast, and was well enough to be allowed 


into the clearing for a little while. He scraped the earth 
of the den floor impatiently, though Yellowfang guessed 
he would be glad to get back to his nest before he had 
walked many paw steps. 

“TI go with him,” she offered. 

Outside in the camp lots of his Clanmates were 
waiting to greet the apprentice. “Cloudpaw! 
Cloudpaw!”’ they yowled as he appeared. 

Cloudpaw gave Yellowfang a bewildered look. 
“Why are they calling my name?” 

“Because you fought bravely,’ Cedarstar told him, 
padding up. “We’ll make you a warrior as soon as 
you’re better.” 

Cloudpaw stumbled as he tried to give an excited 
bounce. “Thank you,” he mewed, dipping his head to 
his Clan leader. 

Nettlespot dashed up, brushing past Cedarstar in her 
haste to get to her son. “My precious kit!” she purred. 
“Oh, Yellowfang, thank you, thank you!” 

“T only did my duty,” Yellowfang murmured. 

Cloudpaw looked almost overwhelmed as 
Rowanberry and the other cats in the patrol clustered 
around him. 


“Cloudpaw, it’s great to see you again,” Rowanberry 
meowed. 

Before Cloudpaw could respond, Yellowfang 
pressed closer to his side, fixing Rowanberry and the 
others with a stern glance. “Give him space,” she 
ordered. “He’s barely back on his paws.” 

She spotted Raggedpelt on the edge of the crowd 
and steered Cloudpaw over to him, away from the 
others. Raggedpelt looked down at him, then bowed his 
head. “I’m sorry I let you get hurt,’ he meowed. 

Cloudpaw looked baffled. “It wasn’t your fault!” he 
protested. “I should have scented those rogues before 
they ambushed us. I let you down!” 

“Not at all,’ Raggedpelt murmured, turning away. 

Soon Yellowfang spotted pain in the apprentice’s 
eyes and saw his head beginning to droop. She steered 
him back to the medicine cat’s den. 

“You’re so good at caring for every cat,” Cloudpaw 
mewed as she settled him in his nest. “You’d make a 
great mother. Do you ever regret you won’t have kits 
of your own?” 

Yellowfang blinked. “The whole Clan are my kits,” 
she replied. “I don’t have time to single any out.” 


Cloudpaw nodded. “I guess that’s what it means to 
be a medicine cat. It must be tough, though,” he added. 
‘T’m really looking forward to having a mate and kits 
of my own.” 

“You’re very young to be thinking about that!” 
Yellowfang teased him. “There’s plenty of time for you 
to father kits with some poor queen and keep me 
busy!” 

Cloudpaw let out a mrrow of laughter, then followed 
it with a huge yawn. He closed his eyes and 
immediately drifted into sleep. 

Sagewhisker was tidying the herb stores. 
“Yellowfang, you have done a great thing by healing 
this cat,” she meowed, her eyes glowing as she gazed 
at Yellowfang. “A lot of other medicine cats—and I’m 
one of them—would have given up on him and let 
StarClan decide.” The medicine cat stretched out her 
tail and touched Yellowfang on the shoulder. “Tt is time 
you ended your apprenticeship and became a full 
medicine cat.” 

“Wow!” Yellowfang exclaimed. “Oh, Sagewhisker, 
thank you!” 

I’m ready for this, she thought. Saving Cloudpaw 


meant everything to me. I know that this is my 
destiny ... so I will give up Raggedpelt and never 
look back. 





CHAPTER 23 
w& 


a 
For the first time since Cloudpaw was hurt, 
Yelowfang got a good night’s sleep. At sunrise she 
enjoyed a good stretch and gave herself a thorough 
grooming from ears to tail. 

Sagewhisker emerged from her nest and shook 
scraps of moss from her pelt. “I need to see 
Cedarstar,” she meowed, “and tell him that you’re 
ready to become a full medicine cat.” 

Yellowfang turned to her, a spasm of fear tingling 
through her paws. “Please, Sagewhisker, give me the 
chance to tell another cat first.” 

The medicine cat’s eyes narrowed. “You mean 
Raggedpelt, don’t you?” 

Words failed Yellowfang; she just looked down at 
her paws. How does she know? 

“You are bound by the medicine code now. This is 
how it is for all of us—and how it must be for you,” 
Sagewhisker prompted, her voice firm. 

“Always,” Yellowfang whispered. Without waiting 
to hear more, she darted out. The first cat she saw 


was Nutwhisker, ambling over to the fresh-kill pile. 
“Have you seen Raggedpelt?” she called to him. 

“He took a hunting patrol out into the marshes,” 
Nutwhisker replied. “They haven’t been gone long. 
You'll catch up to them if you hurry.” 

“Thanks!” Yellowfang raced out through the tunnel 
and into the trees. Soon she reached the edge of the 
marshes and spotted Raggedpelt several fox-lengths 
away. Foxheart was stalking something among a clump 
of scrubby bushes, while Frogtail and Mudclaw were 
just visible farther away. 

“Raggedpelt!” Yellowfang bounded from one grassy 
hump to the next, heading for the tabby tom. As she 
approached she spotted something flickering in the 
grass and Raggedpelt turned toward her, spitting with 
frustration. 

“Now look what you’ve done! I nearly had that 
lizard.” 

“Sorry,” Yellowfang panted. “But I have something 
to tell you.” 

Raggedpelt’s ears flicked forward. “What? Not 
Cloudpaw? Is he—” 

“Cloudpaw is fine.” Yellowfang paused; it was 


harder than she had expected to deliver her news. 
“Sagewhisker is going to make me a full medicine cat 
at the half-moon Gathering tonight.” 

Raggedpelt stared at her. “Are you sure that’s what 
you want? Haven’t you enjoyed the last few moons 
with me?” 

“You know I have.” Yellowfang sighed. “But healing 
Cloudpaw has shown me where my heart lies. I must 
be a medicine cat.” 

Raggedpelt took a pace toward her, his tail lashing 
and his neck fur fluffing up. “You’re throwing your life 
away!” he snarled. “I thought you’d have gotten over 
your fixation with herbs and cobwebs by now.” 

“You never take me seriously,” Yellowfang retorted, 
her pain curdling into anger. “You have no idea what it 
means to be a medicine cat.” Glancing across to 
where Foxheart had just made her catch, she added 
savagely, “Why don’t you go and have kits with her 
instead? She’s always mooning around after you.” 

“Foxheart means nothing to me,’ Raggedpelt 
growled. “My whole world is you, Yellowfang, and the 
future we could have together.” 

For a heartbeat Yellowfang could see that future 


too, and she was drawn to tt in spite of herself. But she 
knew how impossible it was for her to turn her paws 
aside from the path she had chosen. 

“This is my destiny,” she mewed. “You cannot 
change it.” 

“No,” Raggedpelt responded. “But you could.” 


Yellowfang could tell by the spring in her step that 
Sagewhisker was excited as they prepared to leave for 
the half-moon Gathering at the Moonstone. In contrast, 
as she checked on Cloudpaw’s wound and made sure 
he had water and a piece of fresh-kill, Yellowfang felt 
hollow inside. I’ve lost something so precious ... but 
I cant abandon my duty to my Clan, not even for 
Raggedpelt. 

“This is so cool!” Cloudpaw meowed, his eyes 
shining. “We’ll finish our apprenticeships at the same 
time, Yellowfang!” 

Yellowfang nodded. “You'll be a good warrior, 
Cloudpaw.” 

“And you’re already a great medicine cat!” 

Sagewhisker prepared traveling herbs for both of 
them, and the two cats set out from the camp just after 
sunhigh. With every paw step Yellowfang felt as if she 


was leaving part of herself behind. Several of her 
Clanmates waited beside the tunnel to wish her good 
luck, but Raggedpelt was not one of them. He stood 
watching her from the far end of the clearing, and 
didn’t say a word. 

Yellowfang was always slightly nervous at the 
thought of crossing WindClan territory, even though 
medicine cats had the right to do so on their way to the 
Moonstone. To her relief, they saw only one patrol in 
the distance. Reedfeather, the Clan deputy, was 
leading it, and he simply acknowledged the two 
medicine cats with a wave of his tail. 

Twilight was gathering by the time Yellowfang and 
Sagewhisker reached Highstones. The other medicine 
cats were already there. 

“Yellowfang is here today to be made a full 
medicine cat,’ Sagewhisker mewed when greetings 
had been exchanged. 

Hawkheart, the WindClan medicine cat, stepped 
forward and rested his tail-tip on Yellowfang’s shoulder 
for a moment. “Congratulations,” he murmured. “As 
you know, I was a warrior before I became a medicine 
cat, just like you. I’ve always found it a great help.” 


Goosefeather of ThunderClan ignored her, his 
gleaming, unfocused eyes suggesting that he was away 
somewhere inside his own head as usual, but 
Brambleberry of RiverClan pushed up beside the 
others, her eyes shining and her white pelt gleaming in 
the dusk. “I’m so excited for you!” she exclaimed. 

Yellowfang thanked the two cats for their good 
wishes, then turned to face Featherwhisker. The 
second ThunderClan medicine cat was regarding her 
with the same mixture of wariness and curiosity that 
he always showed. “Your Clan must be pleased to 
have a second medicine cat,” he mewed. “I trust all is 
well with you?” 

“ShadowClan is doing fine,” Sagewhisker responded 
brusquely. 

“What about you, Yellowfang?” Featherwhisker 
commented. “Have you found it hard to change from 
being a warrior to the life of a medicine cat?” 

You dont know how hard! Yellowfang thought, but 
she wasn’t about to tell Featherwhisker that. He needs 
to butt out and mind his own business! 

To her relief Sagewhisker saved her from having to 
reply. “Come along,” she urged the others. “If we hang 


around gossiping we’ ll be late for the Moonstone.” 

She led the way up the last steep slope to where 
Mothermouth yawned in the side of the hill. As 
Yellowfang made her way down the twisting passage 
into the heart of the hil, she felt her doubts and 
heartaches drop away behind her. 

I’m going to be a full medicine cat! 

The cave of the Moonstone was still dark when they 
reached it. Only a faint twinkle of starlight trickled 
down through the ragged hole in the roof. The 
medicine cats took their places around the crystal and 
waited. Yellowfang almost let out a squeal like an 
excited kit when at last the moon shone through the 
hole and drenched the Moonstone in a cold, unearthly 
light. 

Its the most beautiful thing in the world! Every 
time I see it, it still surprises me. 

Sagewhisker rose to her paws, stood beside the 
Moonstone, and beckoned to Yellowfang with her tail. 
Feeling that her paws would barely support her, 
Yellowfang joined her at the heart of the frosty light. 

Gazing up at the moon, Sagewhisker spoke. “T, 
Sagewhisker, medicine cat of ShadowClan, call upon 


my warrior ancestors to look down on this apprentice. 
She has trained hard to understand the way of a 
medicine cat, and with your help she will serve her 
Clan for many moons.” 

Yellowfang felt as if she and her mentor were 
standing alone in the circle of light while the rest of the 
world had faded away. She could hear whispers and 
the soft pad of paws at the edge of the cavern. Were 
long-dead medicine cats from StarClan here, 
watching? Yellowfang’s paws tingled at the thought of 
being part of a long line of cats who had devoted their 
lives to caring for ShadowClan. The same line she had 
seen in her dream while treating Cloudpaw. All those 
cats, sharing their wisdom in support of her! 

“Yellowfang,”’ Sagewhisker continued, “do you 
promise to uphold the ways of a medicine cat, to stand 
apart from rivalry between Clan and Clan, and to 
protect all cats equally, even at the cost of your life?” 

“I do,” Yellowfang replied. 

“Then by the powers of StarClan I declare that you 
are a full medicine cat. StarClan honors your courage 
and your diligence. Now come, touch your nose to the 
Moonstone, and may all your dreams be good ones.” 


Yellowfang crouched down; swallowing rapidly from 
nerves, she stretched out her neck and touched her 
nose to the glimmering surface. At once everything 
went dark, and she felt cold creeping through her as if 
she were turning into a cat of ice. 

StarClan, where are you? 

The darkness lifted, and Yellowfang looked around. 
The Moonstone, the cave, and the other medicine cats 
had vanished. Instead she was crouching in the 
clearing where she had first met Silverflame, when she 
was made a medicine cat apprentice. But now the lush 
growth of greenleaf had faded; the ground felt marshy 
underpaw, and a chilly breeze ruffled Yellowfang’s fur. 

A few heartbeats later, she spotted Silverflame 
pushing her way through a clump of fern. “Greetings, 
Yellowfang,” she began. “It’s wonderful to see you 
again.” 

But in spite of her warm words, Yellowfang could 
see sadness in her eyes. “Ts ... is all well with you?” 
she asked. 

Silverflame avoided the question. “I’m very proud of 
you,” she mewed. “Come, walk with me.” 

She turned and brushed through the grass in the 


direction of the stream. Yellowfang padded at her 
shoulder, convinced there was something the old cat 
wasn’t telling her. Silverflame followed the stream until 
they came to a spot where the current had carved out 
a wide pool. Silverflame sat on the bank and looked 
down into the still water. 

Yellowfang sat beside her. “Why have you brought 
me here?” 

Silverflame gestured at the surface of the pool with 
her tail. Yellowfang looked down and saw her own 
reflection staring back at her, with Silverflame’s 
reflection beside her. Then she let out a gasp. Behind 
her, she saw the reflections of three kits, their tiny 
bodies huddled close together. 

Confused, Yellowfang rose to her paws and spun 
around. No kits were in sight, and the grass wasn’t 
long enough to hide them. She drew in a sharp breath, 
but there was no kit scent in the air. 

“I saw kits!” she exclaimed to Silverflame. “Where 
did they go?” 

There was a strange, sad knowledge in 
Silverflame’s eyes, but she didn’t reply. Instead her 
outline began to fade. 


“No!” Yellowfang protested. “Don’t go! I don’t 
understand!” 

Now Silverflame’s body was no more than a 
shimmer by the poolside. Her voice came faintly to 
Yellowfang’s ears. “Whatever happens, Yellowfang, 
know that I am always with you. Trust your instincts. 
Make your own choice.” 

The sunlight was swallowed up by darkness, and 
Yellowfang opened her eyes to find herself back in the 
cavern of the Moonstone. The silver light was gone; by 
the faint starshine Yellowfang could just make out the 
other medicine cats, all crouched as she was with their 
noses against the Moonstone. Yellowfang shivered, 
suddenly overwhelmed by the cold and the blackness. 
She felt an itch in her paws, an urge to run far, far 
away, to escape from the questions and the mystery 
and the responsibility of her new role. 

Brambleberry was already awake, arching her back 
in a long stretch. “That was a lovely dream,” she 
remarked to Featherwhisker, who was stirring beside 
her. “I get such great guidance from my StarClan 
mentor.” 

Featherwhisker nodded. “Mine is always quick to 


point out when I’m about to make a mistake!” he 
purred. 

Yellowfang listened, puzzled. Its not like that for 
me. Silverflame told me I have to trust my own 
instincts. 

Then Hawkheart of WindClan sat up. Blinking, he 
turned to Yellowfang. “How are you feeling?” he 
asked cheerfully. 

“Er ... fine,’ Yellowfang stammered. Yes, I’m fine, 
she told herself. I’m a medicine cat of ShadowClan, 
just as I am destined to be. 


The warm sun of leaf-fall shone down, turning the 
forest to scarlet and gold. Yellowfang and Cloudpelt 
were collecting cobwebs in a clearing not far from the 
camp. Yellowfang felt warm affection as she watched 
the young white warrior pawing the sticky strands 
from the ivy growing up an oak tree. Though his 
wound was almost healed, he still moved stiffly, and 
was only allowed to perform light duties, but he was 
always the first to offer his help to Yellowfang. She 
knew his loyalty to her came from the fact that she 
had saved his life, and she loved him all the more for it. 

The bond between us will never be broken. 


Yellowfang felt a twinge in her belly and realized 
that Cloudpelt was stretching too far up the tree in his 
efforts to reach another cobweb. Gently she nudged 
him out of the way. “Let me get it,’ she meowed. “You 
need to be careful not to open up that wound again.” 

As Cloudpelt stepped back, loud, excited squeals 
came from the trees at the edge of the clearing. The 
current apprentices, Nightpaw, Clawpaw, Blackpaw, 
Flintpaw, and Fernpaw, rushed past and plunged into 
the undergrowth on the opposite side. They were 
closely followed by their mentors, Foxheart, Crowtail, 
Rowanberry, and Scorchwind. Yellowfang suppressed 
a mrrow of amusement at how flustered all the 
warriors looked. 

“Hey, slow down!” Scorchwind called. “This is a 
patrol, not a race!” 

Cloudpelt rolled his eyes. “Crazy apprentices 

Yellowfang flicked his ear with her tail. “It’s only 
three sunrises since you were an apprentice,’ she 
pointed out. 

“Ah, but I feel old in my bones,’ Cloudpelt 
responded in a quavering voice like an elder. 

A sudden squeal distracted Yellowfang and she 


42? 


looked up to see Blackpaw reappearing from the 
undergrowth. The white tom was holding a single black 
forepaw up as he tottered across to her on three legs. 

“I stepped on a thorn!” 

“Lets see.” Yellowfang peered at the apprentice’s 
pads, and finally managed to spot a tiny bramble thorn 
at the very edge. “Great StarClan, that’s huge!” she 
mewed, deftly hooking it out with her teeth. She 
remembered the time she’d bitten Finchflight, pleased 
that her skills had improved since then. “You’re fine 
now. Give it a good lick,” she told Blackpaw. 

The apprentice swiped his tongue once over his pad, 
then charged into the undergrowth again. “Thanks, 
Yellowfang!” he yowled over his shoulder as he 
disappeared. 

Yellowfang realized that Cloudpelt had watched her 
carefully all the time she was extracting the thorn. 

“We’re lucky to have you as our medicine cat,” he 
meowed. “I’m glad StarClan chose you.” 

“It was my choice, too,” Yellowfang responded. 


The full moon shed its cold light onto the cats 
packed into the hollow at Fourtrees. Yellowfang felt 
the gaze of every single one of them fixed on her as 


Sagewhisker announced that she was now a full 
medicine cat. 

“Yellowfang! Yellowfang!” 

The yowls of welcome rang out around her, mainly 
from the other medicine cats. Yellowfang’s heart 
swelled with a mixture of pride and comradeship at the 
thought that she was one of them, privileged to care 
for her Clan and to interpret the signs of StarClan for 
them. 

This truly is my destiny! 

Then she caught Raggedpelt’s eye. He had not 
joined in the cheering; instead he was scowling at her. 
He had hardly spoken to her in the half-moon since she 
had taken her vows as a medicine cat. 

Why cant he understand, and be glad for me? 
Yellowfang wondered, shooting him a look that was 
sharper than flint. If hes going to be the next 
ShadowClan leader, I will be his medicine cat, and 
we will need to lead the Clan side by side. Why 
can t he be satisfied with that? 

Yet Yellowfang could not stifle a pang of regret for 
what she had lost. Instead Foxheart clung to 
Raggedpelt’s side like a burr; she was there now, 


leaning close to him, whispering into his ear. 

It'll change when he is leader, Yellowfang 
decided. He’ll just have to accept that this is the 
way things are. 

As Heatherstar began to speak, Yellowfang felt a 
strange wriggling sensation in her belly. She shifted 
around among the fallen leaves, trying to get 
comfortable. 

Sagewhisker gave her a prod. “Keep still?’ she 
hissed. “I can’t concentrate on what Heatherstar is 
saying.” 

“Sorry,” Yellowfang muttered. 

“Do you have a pain somewhere?” Sagewhisker 
asked. “Have you eaten crow-food by mistake?” 

“That must be it,” Yellowfang agreed. 

But she knew what this feeling was. She’d treated 
enough pregnant queens now to recognize the quiver 
of unborn babies, even before their mother’s belly had 
begun to swell. Yellowfang tried to block out the 
sensation, wondering which of the queens around her 
could be expecting kits. But the wriggling went on, 
even though Yellowfang held her breath with the effort 
to concentrate on her own stomach. 


Which meant that these weren’t the feelings 
belonging to another cat. These were truly inside her 
belly, kicking and squirming and growing.... A cold 
sensation of dread crept through Yellowfang’s fur. 

I’m a medicine cat now! Great StarClan, theres 
no way I can have kits! 





CHAPTER 24 
w& 


“ 
Yellowfang hauled herself out of her nest a few 
days after the Gathering. Every muscle in her body 
protested; she felt as exhausted as if she had run all 
the way around the border, three times. 

“Why are you always so tired these days?” 
Sagewhisker asked her as Yellowfang forced herself 
to draw her paws over her ears in a sketchy grooming. 
“And you’re putting on weight, too. Maybe if you 
didn’t eat so much, you would be able to do more.” 

“Maybe,” Yellowfang muttered. Jf I werent a 
medicine cat, you would know what the problem is. 
But you’d never even begin to guess that I’m 
expecting kits. What am I going to do? 

Slipping out of the den, she stood at the edge of the 
clearing and watched her Clanmates going about their 
duties. The apprentices were hauling a load of bedding 
out of the elders’ den. As Yellowfang watched, 
Flintpaw rolled up a ball of moss and hurled it at 
Nightpaw’s head. 

Nightpaw batted it away. “Stop being such a mouse- 


brain, Flintpaw,” he meowed. “We’ll never get finished 
that way.” 

Flintpaw let out a yowl and hurled himself at 
Nightpaw. “I’m a WindClan warrior!” he screeched. 
The two apprentices wrestled together in the midst of 
the discarded bedding; Blackpaw, Clawpaw, and 
Fernpaw joined in with joyous mews, scattering moss 
everywhere. 

Yellowfang wondered if she needed to intervene, but 
she realized that Nightpaw, who was the smallest of 
the apprentices, was giving as good as he got, and the 
squabbling was basically good-natured. A moment later 
Hollyflower, who was Blackpaw’s, Flintpaw’s, and 
Fernpaw’s mother, strode across the clearing, grabbed 
Flintpaw by the scruff, and heaved him out of the fight. 
The other apprentices sat up with moss all over their 
pelts and identical disappointed expressions. 

“What do you think you’re doing?” Hollyflower 
demanded. “Clear this mess up right now, and get it 
all out of camp. If you don’t finish the elders’ bedding, 
there’ll be no battle training later. I'll speak to your 
mentors myself.” 

The threat was enough to send the apprentices 


scurrying to gather up the scattered moss and begin 
hauling it toward the tunnel. Hollyflower watched until 
she was sure they were all working, then turned 
toward the fresh-kill pile. 

Lizardstripe was just finishing off a blackbird; her 
ears twitched as the apprentices bundled past her. 
“You must be glad your kits are out of your paws and 
you can return to warrior duties,’ she remarked to 
Hollyflower. 

Hollyflower sighed, gazing after the apprentices, 
who were heading into the tunnel with their burden of 
moss. “But I miss them so much! They don’t seem to 
need me at all now.” 

Lizardstripe grimaced as if she had accidentally 
taken a mouthful of crow-food. “Didn’t you feel 
trapped while you were in the nursery? Missing 
patrols, and the chance to hunt for your Clan?” 

Yellowfang saw Hollyflower’s puzzled expression. 
“Why would I feel trapped? Having kits to raise as 
warriors is the duty of every queen.” 

“Don’t you think that’s unfair?” Lizardstripe 
protested. “Toms can hunt and fight all their lives, and 
still have kits for the Clan.” 


Hollyflower reached out with her tail to give 
Lizardstripe a friendly flick on the shoulder. “I think 
that’s tough on the toms! Wait until you’re expecting 
kits, Lizardstripe, then you’ ll feel differently.” 

“Actually, I don’t.” Lizardstripe sniffed. 

Hollyflower let out an excited squeal. “Oh, 
Lizardstripe, you’re expecting kits! That’s fabulous! 
Are they Mudclaw’s?” 

Lizardstripe nodded; Yellowfang didn’t think she’d 
ever seen a prospective mother looking so 
unenthusiastic. 

“You’re probably just nervous,” Hollyflower 
reassured her. “Having kits will change your life!” 

“But I don’t want my life to change,” Lizardstripe 
meowed with a lash of her tail. “I like my life the way 
it is now. All I ever wanted was to be a warrior, 
protecting my Clan.” 

“Well, youll be a warrior again, once your kits 
become apprentices,” Hollyflower pointed out. 

Her reasonable tones seemed to annoy Lizardstripe 
even more. “Six moons in the nursery? PI go mad!” 
she exclaimed. 

“Yow ll be fine, and so will your kits,” Hollyflower 


promised, seeming unable to believe that Lizardstripe 
really meant what she said. “We have two medicine 
cats now, don’t forget!” 

With an angry shrug of her shoulders Lizardstripe 
got up and stalked across the camp toward the 
warriors’ den. Staring at her, Yellowfang realized that 
her belly did look swollen, a little more than her own. 

Two litters, neither of them wanted. 

The thought made her wince. Oh, kits, I do want 
you, she told the tiny lives growing in her belly. But 
things are going to be complicated. 

Yellowfang wished that she could talk to 
Lizardstripe, to confide in her about her worries, and 
share the experience of having kits for the first time. 
But Yellowfang’s secret was one she would have to 
bear alone. Besides, she and Lizardstripe had never 
been friends. 

And I certainly cant tell Raggedpelt. Hes made 
it clear that my decision to become a full medicine 
cat means I can have nothing to do with him. 

At that moment she spotted the tabby tom, hurrying 
from the warriors’ den to Cedarstar’s. She wasn’t sure 
if he had seen her; he certainly didn’t acknowledge 


her. 

“Yellowfang, why are you standing there as if 
you’re half-asleep?” 

Yellowfang jumped as Sagewhisker bustled out of 
the den behind her. “We have to check Littlebird’s 
cough,” the medicine cat went on, “and bring some 
ointment of yarrow to Stonetooth for his cracked pads. 
And you promised to take Cloudpelt into the forest 
again. It’s too soon for him to be out unless there’s an 
experienced cat to keep an eye on him.” 

“Sorry, Sagewhisker,” Yellowfang mewed. “Pll see 
to the elders, and then find Cloudpelt.” She set off for 
the elders’ den, feeling utterly weary, her paws 
dragging as if they were made of stone. 

Sagewhisker padded after her. “Don’t forget the 
ointment of yarrow,’ she prompted. Her eyes 
narrowed and she studied Yellowfang more closely. 
“Are you all right?” she asked. “You’ve been very 
tired recently. Medicine cats do get ill themselves, you 
know.” 

Panic stabbed into Yellowfang at the thought of 
Sagewhisker finding out the truth. What would she 
do? Strip me of being a medicine cat? Exile me 


from the Clan? This is my home, and my life! 

“No, Pm fine,” Yellowfang replied, trying to put a 
spring in her step as she headed for the elders’ den. 
Even if they’re grumpy and difficult with leaf-bare 
setting in, its my duty to care for them, and I'll do 
that—for as long as I’m allowed. 


Yellowfang found herself standing in a dark, empty 
space. A few traces of starlight shone in the blackness 
above her head, too faint to be stars. She understood 
that she was dreaming, but she didn’t know what the 
dream might mean. 

“Is this StarClan?” she called. “Is there anyone 
there?” 

A moment later a small dark-pelted cat padded out 
of the shadows. He gave Yellowfang a long look, and 
solemnly shook his head. “There is a cat coming,” he 
meowed, “a cat who should never be born, whose life 
will bring fire and blood to the forest, yet StarClan is 
powerless to stop him!” 

Yellowfang stared at him in horror. “Is there nothing 
we can do?” 

The dark cat dipped his head. “Only one thing can 
stop the tide of hatred this birth-cursed cat will bring: 


the courage of a mother to know her destiny.” 

“Are you talking about one of my kits?” Yellowfang 
gasped. “What do you mean? Is this a prophecy?” 

“It is a warning,” the dark cat whispered. He drew 
back into the shadows. 

Yellowfang sprang after him and woke up thrashing 
in her nest, with the walls of the den faintly visible as 
the sky paled toward dawn. Horror chilled her bones. 
She instinctively curled her paws around her swollen 
belly, desperate to protect the life within. 

Theres no way my kits will bring bloodshed to 
ShadowClan! Its not their fault that they’re going 
to be born. For a moment, she considered describing 
the dream to Sagewhisker. But Silverflame told me to 
trust my own instincts. And my secret would be in 
danger if I told her too much. 

Yellowfang raised her eyes to the few warriors of 
StarClan who still shone in the dawn sky. “StarClan, I 
speak these words before you,” she whispered. “I vow 
to my kits that I will do everything I can to protect 
them. I’m sorry that I won’t be the mother they might 
have hoped for, the mother they deserve, but I will 
always love them.” 


The last leaves fell from the trees. The weather was 
not as harsh as the previous leaf-bare, but the days 
were cold and endlessly wet, and none of the cats ever 
felt warm or dry. Life in the Clan seemed to slow 
down, with warriors only emerging to hunt or patrol, 
though no cat expected enemies to attack in such foul 
weather. 

One morning Yellowfang lay at the mouth of her 
den, watching Raggedpelt sorting reluctant warriors 
into patrols under the perpetual drizzling rain. 
Cloudpelt, fully recovered now, was among them, the 
only cat who seemed to have any energy as he leaped 
and splashed through the puddles in the clearing. 

“You did well to heal the young warrior.” 
Sagewhisker came to join Yellowfang at the mouth of 
the den. 

“He was strong enough to heal himself,’ Yellowfang 
responded, feeling uncomfortable and fat under her 
thick pelt. 

For a moment the medicine cat was silent. Then she 
gave Yellowfang a nudge. “Come on, let’s go for a 
walk. I haven’t been out of the camp for days.” 

Unwilling, but not daring to show it, Yellowfang 


heaved herself to her paws and padded beside 
Sagewhisker out of the camp, following the departing 
patrols. She noticed how much the old medicine cat 
was showing her age, gray around the muzzle and stiff 
in her hind legs when the weather was damp. A pang 
of concern shook Yellowfang. Sagewhisker had been 
ShadowClan’s medicine cat for as long as she could 
remember, a source of skill and comfort for her Clan, 
and it was hard to think of her getting old. 

I must make sure she eats some herbs to help her 
pains. She needs me to take care of her, even if she 
doesn t want it. 

Yellowfang and Sagewhisker ducked through the 
dripping brambles and headed out into the marshes. 

“I like the open spaces when it rains,’ Sagewhisker 
meowed. “I can’t stand it when rain splashes on my 
neck from the trees.” Pausing at the edge of the 
marshland, she took in a deep breath. “It’s bleak out 
here, but I love this part of the territory,’ she told 
Yellowfang. “I’m a ShadowClan cat to my bones, and 
I’m glad StarClan made sure I was born here.” 

Yellowfang murmured agreement, but her attention 
was mostly fixed on the wriggling in her belly. 


Suddenly one of her kits kicked her so hard that she let 
out an involuntary gasp. 

Sagewhisker turned to her. “Come and sit here, on 
this clump of grass.” As Yellowfang obeyed, she gave 
her a long look. “How long to go?” she asked. 

Yellowfang stared at her in dismay. “You know?” 
she whispered. 

‘Tm a medicine cat,’ Sagewhisker replied. “I’ve 
delivered more kits for ShadowClan than you’ve eaten 
mice. Of course I know.” 

“Are you angry?” 

“A little,’ Sagewhisker admitted. “You made vows, 
and you’ve broken them.” 

“No!” Yellowfang protested. “Raggedpelt and I 
haven’t been together since I was made a full 
medicine cat at the Moonstone.” 

Sagewhisker flicked her tai. “You’re splitting 
whiskers, Yellowfang. You know that you shouldn’t 
have been with Raggedpelt when you were a medicine 
cat apprentice. But that’s not the most important 
thing,’ she went on. “ShadowClan needs you. I will 
walk with StarClan soon, and you have to take my 
place. You have a rare gift, and you’ve thrown it 


away.” 

“No, I haven’t!” Yellowfang insisted. “PI deal with 
this, I promise. I won’t stop being a medicine cat. I just 
need to figure out what to do ...” Her voice trailed off. 

Sagewhisker’s gaze was stern. “It’s time you made 
a decision once and for all,” she mewed. “If you’re to 
walk the path of a medicine cat, there must be no more 
turning aside. The Clan must come first.” 

Yellowfang nodded miserably. “T know. It will, from 
now on.” 

Sagewhisker reached out with her tail and stroked 
Yellowfang’s shoulder, a rare gesture of affection. 
“You poor thing,” she whispered, startling Yellowfang. 
“May StarClan light your path.” Her tone became 
brisk again as she continued. “Does Raggedpelt 
know?” 

Yellowfang shook her head. 

“You should tell him,” Sagewhisker meowed. “If the 
kits ... are going to live, then he deserves to know.” 

“Of course they’re going to live!” Yellowfang cried. 
Does she think I would kill my own kits? 

“Then they will need their father more than ever,” 
Sagewhisker told her. “They can’t lose both their 


parents.” 

Yellowfang nodded. “I know, you’re right. But it will 
be hard to tell him.” How will I ever find the words? 
And what will he do when he knows the truth? 


Later that day, Yellowfang was back in the camp, 
busy covering the herb stores with more fern to keep 
the rain out. 

Sagewhisker bustled into the den and took the fern 
frond she was holding. “I'll do that,’ she mewed. 
“Raggedpelt isn’t on patrol. Go and tell him.” More 
gently, she added, “You have to; you know that.” 

Yellowfang stared at her for a moment, then bowed 
her head. On reluctant paws she dragged herself out 
into the clearing and saw Raggedpelt gulping down a 
piece of prey by the fresh-kill pile. 

“Can we talk?” she asked, padding up to him. 

Raggedpelt eyed her coldly. “We have nothing to 
say to each other.” 

“Believe me, we do.” 

Yellowfang led Raggedpelt into the forest, pushing 
through the undergrowth until the camp was out of 
sight. Then she faced him under the dripping trees. 
“T’m going to have kits,” she announced. 


She braced herself for the blast of Raggedpelt’s 
rage. Instead, the tabby tom’s eyes widened in 
disbelief. “That’s not possible!” 

“Of course it’s possible!” 

The confusion in Raggedpelt’s eyes faded, to be 
replaced with glowing happiness. “I’m going to be a 
father!” he breathed. “Yellowfang, that’s great! Our 
kits will be the best warriors and queens the Clan has 
ever known. One of them might become Clan leader 
one day.” 

“But—” Yellowfang tried to interrupt. Even 
Raggedpelt’s anger might have been better than this 
total refusal to see what the problem was. 

‘TIl be the best father,’ he went on enthusiastically. 
‘TIl teach them battle moves, and show them the best 
places to hunt.” 

“But Pm a medicine cat!” Yellowfang made him 
listen at last. “I’m not supposed to have kits!” 

Raggedpelt blinked at her. “Well, you’ Il have to stop 
being a medicine cat.” 

“T can’t,” Yellowfang choked. 

Raggedpelt’s voice grew dangerous. “Can’t, or 
won t?” 


“Both,” Yellowfang admitted. “T will bear these kits, 
and love them with all my heart, but I cannot be their 
mother. You will have to raise them alone.” 

“I can’t do that!” Raggedpelt yelped. “How can I 
stay with them in the nursery and give them milk?” 

“Lizardstripe is also expecting kits,’ Yellowfang 
explained. “She can care for ours until they are old 
enough to feed alone. Every cat can know that they 
are yours, but no cats must know they are also mine.” 
She let out a long sigh. “I’m sorry, Raggedpelt. I 
cannot be their mother.” 

Although she spoke briskly, inside Yellowfang’s 
heart was splitting into tiny pieces. This is the only 
choice I can make. I have to follow the path that 
StarClan has laid out for me. 

The words of the small dark cat in her dream rang 
in her ears, warning her about the storm of fire and 
blood that would be released into her Clan, but she 
pushed the memory away. There was no reason to 
believe that the black cat had been speaking of her 
kits. She didn’t even know his name, or what Clan he 
had once belonged to. 

Raggedpelt will be a good father. My kits will be 


in safe paws. 

The warrior was staring at her as if he’d never seen 
her before. “You mean, you’d choose to be a medicine 
cat for Clanmates that have no kinship with you, over 
caring for your own kits? Our own kits?” His voice 
rose to a screech. “What kind of she-cat are you? Do 
you care for nothing beyond yourself?” 

Yellowfang tried not to crumple to the ground in 
despair. “I have to do this,’ she muttered through 
gritted teeth. “Our kits will not suffer because of it.” 

“What do you know about growing up with only one 
parent?” Raggedpelt snarled. 

Too late, Yellowfang realized she had forgotten 
about his torment over his absent father. “This will be 
different!” she tried to protest. “These kits will be 
cared for by Lizardstripe in the nursery, and they will 
have you as their father, to love and be proud of them! 
Please, you have to do this for them!” 

Raggedpelt glared at her as if she were nothing 
more than a rat. “Very well, but on one condition,” he 
mewed at last. “You must promise never to tell these 
kits the truth. It is better that they grow up without a 
mother than knowing that their mother chose to 


abandon them.” 

Yellowfang’s heart cracked a little more as she 
made the promise Raggedpelt asked for. J will never 
abandon you, little ones, she whispered to her 
unborn babies. 7 will be with you, always. 





CHAPTER 25 
w& 


“ 
Griping pains in her belly woke Yellowfang, and she 
bit back a groan. She knew this time the agony was 
her own. /ts time. I have to go. Sagewhisker will 
cover for me. 

Yellowfang had already prepared the herbs she 
would need: chervil root and a juniper berry, folded up 
in a couple of nettle leaves. She had hidden the leaf 
wrap in her nest, so no cats who came into the den 
would spot it. Now Yellowfang dug the herbs out of 
the moss and headed for the mouth of the den. 
Sagewhisker was still asleep in her nest, and 
Yellowfang didn’t wake her as she stumbled into the 
clearing. 

Night covered the forest. A few stars showed 
through gaps in the clouds, but there was no moon. 
Yellowfang was grateful for the darkness. She could 
Just spot Blizzardwing on guard beside the camp 
entrance, because of his pale pelt, but she knew that 
she could slink out unnoticed past the dirtplace. 

Powerful ripples of pain passed through 


Yellowfang’s belly as she skirted the dirtplace and 
headed through the trees. She had picked out the place 
where her kits would be born a few sunrises before: a 
dead tree across the border in the unknown forest. 
There the border patrols wouldn’t be able to scent her, 
or come upon her unexpectedly. 

Whatever happens after this, she thought, J have 
to stay focused on my duties as a medicine cat. 
Nothing else matters. The Clan will always need me 
more than my kits. 


As Yellowfang crept into the hollow of the dead 
tree, she knew her kits were ready to be born. The 
hollow was full of dead leaves and there was a smell 
of toadstools and something rotting. Not even 
Raggedpelt would find her here. 

All Yellowfang wanted was for the birth to be over. 
But she felt as if she was lying in that dead tree for 
days. Everything hurt—her whole body, down to the 
tips of her fur and the ends of her claws. She told 
herself that she was a medicine cat, able to take care 
of herself, but she was too weak to do anything, even 
eat the herbs she’d brought. Finally, after a long night 
of darkness and anguish, there were three small 


bundles next to her on the pile of leaves. Two of them 
were squirming; one was completely still. Yellowfang 
prodded it with her paw, trying to hide from herself 
what she knew very well. The kit had been born dead. 
Her eyes would never open. 

Yellowfang dragged the other two, a tom and a she- 
cat, toward her. With all the strength she could manage 
she began to lick them, trying to warm them and wake 
them up. The tom let out an angry wail the minute she 
touched him; the other only whimpered slightly and 
jerked her paws. 

I can see the tom is going to be a fighter. He had 
his father’s dark tabby pelt, with a broad, flat face and 
a tiny tail bent in the middle like a broken branch. His 
lungs were so powerful, Yellowfang was surprised his 
wails didn’t bring the entire Clan running to find them. 
He battered his sister with his paws every time he 
moved, but she barely reacted. 

Another dreadful certainty began to gather inside 
Yellowfang. She tried as long as she could, licking and 
licking the weak she-kit, but her breathing only got 
shallower and shallower, until finally it stopped 
altogether. Her tail twitched once and was still. 


Yellowfang buried her nose in the tiny scrap of fur, 
feeling grief crash down on her. It was a clear sign 
from StarClan. 

These are the kits I saw in the pool, when I was 
in StarClan with Silverflame. But they should never 
have been born. 

Pulling herself out of her grief, Yellowfang turned 
her attention to her only surviving kit, and saw the 
expression on his small, flat face. He was new to the 
world—couldn’t see, could barely crawl to her belly to 
feed. And yet his face was already twisted with strong 
emotion ... 

Rage? Hatred? I’ve never seen such a look on 
any cat, let alone a newborn kit. 

Fear flooded through Yellowfang, making her shiver 
with cold. Maybe this kit wasnt meant to survive 
either, she thought. A kit born with so much anger in 
him could only mean trouble for the Clan. Her fear 
surged higher as she remembered her dream, and the 
dire warning spoken by the black StarClan cat. Is this 
the cat who will bring fire and blood to the forest? 

But then he squirmed over to Yellowfang and 
pressed his face into her fur. Hes so small, so 


helpless. He needs me! 

Desperately she told herself that he was only a little 
kit, after al-—her kit, and the son of Raggedpelt, the 
cat she loved. Yellowfang licked the top of his head 
and he let out a small purr. Her heart seemed to 
expand to fill her whole chest. How can I believe that 
any kit should not have been born? 

Leaving the tiny tom in the hollow tree, Yellowfang 
buried his sisters in the unknown forest, digging deep 
into the soil so that no cat or fox or badger would ever 
sniff them out. Then she returned to her one living kit. 

“Silverflame told me to trust my own instincts and 
make my own choices,” she whispered to the tiny tom, 
bending to lick his head. “And I choose that you will 
grow up in the Clan as a warrior without knowing who 
your mother is.” She heaved a deep sigh. “That will be 
best for both of us, little one.” 

Giving him a last lick, Yellowfang slunk back through 
the undergrowth, her fur matted and stinking of 
toadstools, the tom kit dangling from her mouth. Aware 
of how many questions would be asked, she stopped to 
clean herself in a pool near the entrance. By the time 
she and her kit entered the camp, no cat would have 


been able to guess the ordeal she had been through. 

Raggedpelt spotted her the moment she pushed 
through the brambles. He barely even looked at her; 
his eyes were all for the kit, and they were full of hope 
and excitement. He came bounding across the clearing 
to follow Yellowfang into the nursery. Lizardstripe was 
there tending to her own two kits, born a few days 
earlier. Her pale brown tabby fur and white underbelly 
seemed to glow in the darkness of the nursery den. 
She looked at Yellowfang with narrow, unfriendly eyes. 
Yellowfang had never really liked or trusted 
Lizardstripe, but she had no choice. Lizardstripe was 
the only nursing queen at the moment. 

Yellowfang dropped the kit at Lizardstripe’s paws 
and he let out a furious shriek. 

“What,” growled Lizardstripe, “is that?” 

“Tt’s a kit,’ Yellowfang replied. 

“It’s my kit,’ Raggedstar added proudly, shouldering 
his way into the den. 

“Oh, yes?” Lizardstripe mewed. “What a miracle. If 
I’d known toms could have kits, I would have made 
Mudclaw have these brats of mine himself.” 

Raggedpelt ignored her. Yellowfang thought that the 


space seemed to get smaller with him in it, as if he 
drew all the air into himself. She wanted to press 
herself into his fur and tell him everything she’d been 
through and about the two tiny bodies in the forest. 
The effort of holding back left her shaking inside, but 
Raggedpelt still wasn’t looking at her. 

He crouched and sniffed at his son. The kit tried to 
lift his head, and then swiped his paw through the air, 
connecting with Raggedpelt’s nose. The tabby tom 
jerked his head back in surprise. 

“Look at that!” he cried delightedly. “He’s a little 
warrior already!” 

Lizardstripe’s amber gaze was making Yellowfang 
uncomfortable. “His mother wishes to keep her identity 
secret,” Yellowfang meowed. “She cannot care for 
this kit, and she hopes that you will take him in for 
her.” 

Lizardstripe lashed her tail. “What kind of mouse- 
brained nonsense is that?” she snapped. “Why should I 
have to put up with another mewling lump of fur? I 
didn’t ask for these kits either, but you don’t see me 
dumping them on some other cat. It’s not my job to 
take care of every unwanted kit in the Clan.” 


Raggedpelt snarled, and Lizardstripe shrank back in 
her nest. “He is not unwanted,” Raggedstar hissed. 
“He is my son, and I will always claim him as my own. 
You are being given a great honor, you unworthy cat. 
Who wouldn’t want to be mother to the Clan deputy’s 
son—and perhaps the future leader of the Clan 
himself?” 

Lizardstripe hissed softly. But she knew better than 
to argue with Raggedpelt. Yellowfang thought that 
perhaps she saw the wisdom of his words. As the 
queen responsible for Raggedpelt’s son—even if the 
Clan knew she wasn’t his real mother—Lizardstripe 
would be a significant cat within the Clan. 

“All right, fine,’ she spat ungraciously. “Give him to 
me.” 

As Lizardstripe nestled her son into the curve of her 
belly, Yellowfang felt a strong pang of unease. What 
kind of life will he have, with an ambitious queen 
like Lizardstripe raising him? Am I making the 
biggest mistake of my life? 

“His name is Brokenkit,’ she meowed, her voice 
faltering. Lizardstripe nodded, stretching out a paw to 
touch the bend in his tail. That was where every cat 


would think his name came from. But Yellowfang 
knew the truth. She named her son for the feeling in 
her chest as she left him there, as if her heart were 
cleaving in two, as if her life had broken down the 
middle. 


Yellowfang staggered back to the medicine cats’ 
den and curled up in her nest. Everything within her 
ached, far beyond the reach of any herbs. 

Sagewhisker turned from hanging cobwebs on the 
thorns. “Is it over?” 

Yellowfang raised her head a little and nodded. 
“Yes. It’s over.” All over. 

Sagewhisker returned to the herb store and fetched 
a leaf, nudging it toward her. 

“Parsley?” Yellowfang asked. 

The medicine cat nodded. “It will dry up your milk. 
You should take one leaf every day.” As Yellowfang 
licked up the leaf, she added, “You did the right thing.” 

Yellowfang didn’t reply. All she could think of was 
her tiny son, now suckling at Lizardstripe’s belly. She 
yearned for him, yet she couldn’t help feeling afraid as 
she remembered the rage in his face when he had first 
been born. She couldn’t ignore her fears that he was 


the kit that the black cat had mentioned in his terrible 
prophecy. But Yellowfang hoped that by surrendering 
him, by giving him away to another cat, she had 
averted whatever doom her dream had foretold. 

“The future will be different now,” she hissed to 
StarClan as she closed her eyes. “Brokenkit is no 
longer my son.” 





CHAPTER 26 
w& 


“ 
“PU visit Lizardstripe,” Sagewhisker announced 
the following dawn. “You can go out and collect moss. 
There should be plenty, with all this rain!” 

Her deliberate cheerfulness didn’t lift Yellowfang’s 
spirits. She suspected that Sagewhisker was keeping 
her out of the nursery so that she couldn’t see 
Brokenktt. 

As Yellowfang headed across the clearing to gather 
moss, Brightflower fell in beside her. “Where were you 
yesterday morning? I looked for you and no cat knew 
where you were,” she fretted. “Are you okay? You 
don’t look well.” 

Yellowfang ached to confide in her mother, but she 
knew how impossible that was. “Oh, it was just 
medicine cat stuff,’ she mewed vaguely. “And I’m 
fine, just a bit tired.” 

To her relief, Brightflower looked reassured. “I’m so 
proud that you’re a medicine cat!” she exclaimed. “T 
have some news for you,” she added after a moment. 
“Nutwhisker has been spending a lot of time with 


Fernpaw_ recently, even though she’s not his 
apprentice. I really hope he’s ready to settle down with 
a mate. It will be so wonderful for him to father a litter 
of kits!” 

“Great,” Yellowfang meowed, trying to sound 
enthusiastic. “Now, if you don’t mind, I have things to 
do.” 

She padded into the forest, trying to clear the scent 
of the camp from her head. She felt dazed, sore, and 
lost without the kits at her belly. My dear daughters, 1 
will always grieve for you. And for you, my son. It 
was even more painful to think of Brokenkit, knowing 
that he was alive, but not with her. 

Sighing, Yellowfang began collecting moss from 
under pieces of bark and around the roots of trees, 
making a pile of it beside a path ready to take back to 
camp later. As she worked, she drew closer to the 
training area. Through the trees she could see all five 
apprentices practicing battle moves. 

“Nightpaw, don’t be such a weakling.” Foxheart’s 
voice rang out shrilly. “Come on, I’ve shown you how 
to do that move before!” 

“Yeah, it’s no fun fighting with you,’ Flintpaw 


added. 

Nightpaw’s only response was a fit of coughing. 
Hearing it, Yellowfang dropped her moss and bounded 
through the trees until she reached the edge of the 
clearing. 

“Enough!” she ordered. “Nightpaw is sick.” 

Foxheart turned to glare at her. “You should keep 
out of the training area,” she snapped. “You’re only a 
medicine cat.” 

“This isn’t training,’ Yellowfang retorted. “It’s 
illness. I’m taking Nightpaw back to the camp.” 

Foxheart let out a hiss of annoyance. But there’s 
nothing she can do to stop me, Yellowfang thought 
with satisfaction. 

Nightpaw recovered from his coughing fit and 
trotted over to her. Before he left, his brother 
Clawpaw touched his nose to the small apprentice’s 
ear. “Get well soon!” he mewed. 

Yellowfang gave him a nod of approval. Clawpaw 
was a sturdy young cat, inclined to be a bit too rough, 
but always kind to his weaker brother. 

Nightpaw’s cough eased as he and Yellowfang 
made their way back to camp. Passing her pile of 


moss, Yellowfang paused to collect a bundle. 

“I can carry some of that for you,” Nightpaw piped 
up. 
Yellowfang shook her head. “No, you need to rest.” 
“TPI be fine, honestly,’ Nightpaw insisted. “Please. 
Pd like to help.” 

Yellowfang hesitated for a heartbeat and then gave 
in. Between them, they managed to carry about half 
what she had collected, and made their way 
companionably back to the camp. Once in the 
medicine den, Yellowfang checked Nightpaw from 
nose to tail-tip. She could hear wheezing in his chest, 
but his eyes were bright, his gums red, and his 
heartbeat steady. There was no sign of fever. 

“Well, you’re a puzzle,’ she mewed at last. “You 
haven’t got whitecough or greencough, but I don’t 
know—Sagewhisker?” she called as the old medicine 
cat came into the den. “Will you have a look at 
Nightpaw? He was coughing, but there doesn’t seem 
to be anything wrong with him.” 

Sagewhisker examined Nightpaw, then shook her 
head. “Very odd,” she commented. “Nightpaw, do you 
think you might have a furball?” 


“No,” the apprentice replied. “I’m sure I don’t. 
Anyway, my pelt’s so short that I don’t get furballs.” 

“Then maybe you just swallowed a seed, or 
something,” Sagewhisker concluded. “I don’t think you 
need any herbs. Just be sure to drink plenty of water.” 

“I will, Sagewhisker. Thanks!” The apprentice 
turned to Yellowfang. “I feel fine now. PI collect the 
rest of that moss.” 

When he had gone, Sagewhisker guided Yellowfang 
to her nest. “You need to rest for a while,’ she 
mewed. “Are you feeling okay?” 

“How is Brokenkit?” Yellowfang asked, reluctantly 
settling down into the moss. 

There was a guarded look in Sagewhisker’s eyes as 
she replied. “He’s fine. He’s feeding well and already 
as strong as his new littermates.” 

Something in the old cat’s voice suggested she was 
holding back. “There’s something wrong, isn’t there?” 
Yellowfang demanded. “What aren’t you telling me?” 

Sagewhisker sighed. “Lizardstripe doesn’t seem 
entirely happy with the extra mouth to feed.” 

Yellowfang snorted. “Lizardstripe didn’t want kits in 
the first place!” 


Sagewhisker nodded. “I know, but it’s too bad. 
That’s the duty of a queen.” 

“Some queens shouldn’t have kits,’ Yellowfang 
muttered. Inside, she was desperately worried about 
her son. J cant bear that he might feel unwanted 
and unloved! 

Sagewhisker seemed to guess what she was 
thinking. “Yellowfang, you have to stay away from the 
nursery. Brokenkit needs to have a chance to bond 
with Lizardstripe.” 

Yellowfang took a short nap while Sagewhisker 
went out into the forest to search for herbs. She had 
just returned when Yellowfang awoke. 

“I found more juniper berries,’ she meowed 
cheerfully. “And a whole clump of borage leaves in a 
sheltered spot. Pd given up hope of more of those 
before newleaf. They’ll come in handy if Lizardstripe 
doesn’t have enough milk.” 

Yellowfang rose from her nest to help Sagewhisker 
sort the herbs, discarding the leaves that were too 
shriveled to be of any use. She was still involved in the 
task when Foxheart burst into the den. Her fur was 
bristling and her eyes hot with anger. 


“Why do you have the apprentices running errands 
for the medicine cats?” she snarled. 

Yellowfang saw that Nightpaw was trailing behind 
his mentor with his mouth full of moss. 

“Nightpaw was feelng well enough to help me,” 
Yellowfang meowed. “Why is that a problem?” 

“You should have sent him back to training!” 
Foxheart snapped. “Just stay out of warrior business in 
future!” She whipped around and stalked out of the 
den. 

Nightpaw dropped the moss onto the pile, gave 
Yellowfang an apologetic shrug, and trotted after his 
mentor. Seething with fury, Yellowfang clawed up the 
moss and tossed it toward the hollow where it was 
kept. Her aim was poor but she didn’t care. I'd like to 
claw that she-cat’s face, she 5 so full of herself! 

“Easy.” Sagewhisker rested her tailtip on 
Yellowfang’s shoulder. “Go get a piece of fresh-kill and 
calm down.” 

Yellowfang flung a last ball of moss after the rest 
and stomped out of the den. Across the clearing, 
Foxheart was talking to Raggedpelt, with a lot of 
bristling and tail-waving. Complaining about me, 1 


suppose, Yellowfang thought as both cats cast glances 
toward her. 

Trying to ignore them, she padded over to the 
meager fresh-kill pile and chose a shrew. As she ate, 
Rowanberry appeared beside her. “Have you heard 
about that extra kit in the nursery?” her sister asked 
excitedly. 

“Yes, I heard,” Yellowfang replied brusquely. 

“Every cat thinks he’s Foxheart’s,’ Rowanberry 
murmured into her ear. “Look at her with Raggedpelt. 
They’re very close.” 

Another stab of fury pierced Yellowfang. She 
wanted to yowl, No! Brokenkit is mine! But she made 
herself keep quiet and go on eating shrew. 

“What sort of cat would give up her own kit?” 
Rowanberry went on, sounding scandalized. 

“A cat who’s set on becoming deputy when 
Raggedpelt is leader?” Ashheart suggested, padding up 
with Frogtail. “Foxheart has always been ambitious. 
She probably thinks having a kit would let another cat 
steal her chance.” She turned to her Clanmate. “What 
do you think, Frogtail?” 

“I don’t listen to gossip,” Frogtail responded. “If the 


kit is Foxheart’s, so what? It’Il be an apprentice before 
long, and have a mentor to take the place of its 
parents.” He gave his tail a flick. “If I were a she-cat, 
I wouldn’t want to be stuck in the nursery either.” 

Yellowfang abandoned her half-eaten shrew and 
withdrew to the medicine cats’ den. 

“What’s wrong?” Sagewhisker meowed. 

“The Clan is gossiping about Brokenkit,” Yellowfang 
told her. “They all think he’s Foxheart’s.” 

Sagewhisker looked mildly surprised. “Well, it’s 
better to have the Clan think that Brokenkit’s mother is 
a ShadowClan cat and not a kittypet or a rogue.” 

Yellowfang sighed, knowing that was true. J dont 
have to like it, though. She curled up in her nest 
again, trying to sleep, but after two moons of having a 
full belly, now the emptiness kept her awake. 


A few sunrises later, Yellowfang returned to the 
clearing with a mouthful of chervil root to see 
Lizardstripe emerging from the nursery. Brightflower 
padded over to Yellowfang as she paused, wondering 
why Lizardstripe was leaving her kits. 

“The kits’ eyes are open,” Brightflower reported, 
her eyes gleaming. “And Lizardstripe is bringing them 


out for the first time.” 

“I hope it’s not too soon,” Yellowfang muttered. It’s 
okay to be anxious. I’m a medicine cat! 

“They'll be fine,’ Brightflower assured her. “It’s 
such a beautiful day.” 

Several cats had gathered around the nursery to see 
the kits come out. Rowanberry was there with 
Nutwhisker and Russetfur, while Ashheart and 
Wolfstep stood a little farther off. All three elders 
watched from the entrance to their den. 

Deerkit and Tanglekit bounced into the open first, 
only to halt and gaze around them, their eyes wide with 
curiosity. Runningkit, who was the smallest of the litter, 
followed them more slowly, pausing in the nursery 
entrance while he sniffed several times. Then he 
suddenly decided to join his brother and sister, dashing 
out into the clearing and stumbling over his own paws. 

Murmurs of admiration and amusement arose from 
the cats watching, and more of the Clan strolled up. 
Mudclaw joined Lizardstripe, who was licking a paw 
and drawing it over her ears, her eyes glinting as she 
heard the Clan praising her kits. 

Maybe she’ll be proud of them after all, 


Yellowfang thought, staying at the back of the crowd 
as she looked for Brokenkit. 

He tumbled out of the nursery a heartbeat later and 
stood blinking in the sunlight, his dark tabby pelt 
bristling. Even though he was slightly younger, he was 
just as big as the others. 

“He’s a fine kit,’ Yellowfang heard Mousewing 
commenting. 

Deerleap nodded. “He should make a strong warrior 
one day.” 

Yellowfang wanted to enjoy the praise of her kit, 
even though she couldn’t acknowledge it, but there 
was no real warmth in the warriors’ words. They dont 
like the fact that no cat knows who his mother is. 

Amberleaf padded up a moment later. “Does he 
look like a rogue to you?” she whispered, confirming 
Yellowfang’s suspicions. “If Foxheart is his mother, 
why not say so?” 

Mousewing muttered agreement. “I wouldn’t have 
said he’s half kittypet, but then look at his father. 
Remember what they said about Raggedpelt when he 
was born.” 

Not wanting to hear any more, Yellowfang turned to 


leave. But Littlebird padded up and stopped her. 

“You haven’t come to see me for a while,’ she 
mewed. 

Yellowfang fought with guilt. She had deliberately 
avoided the elder in case Littlebird realized she was 
expecting kits. “I’ve been busy,” she replied. 

“Too busy for your old friends?” Littlebird pressed. 
Beckoning Yellowfang with a flick of her ears, she led 
the way to a sunny spot away from the other cats, and 
settled down with her paws tucked underneath her. 
“Lots of kits,” she commented. “Good for the Clan, but 
not so good in leaf-bare.” 

“Lizardstripe seems to be managing,” Yellowfang 
pointed out. The elder’s eyes were slitted against the 
sunlight, but Yellowfang still felt as if Littlebird was 
scrutinizing her. 

“What about that extra kit?” Littlebird prompted. 
“Where do you think his mother is?” 

Yellowfang looked away. “I have no idea. As long 
as Lizardstripe is willing to raise him, does it matter?” 

“I think every kit deserves to know where they 
come from,” Littlebird meowed. “I would have thought 
Raggedpelt would believe that more than most.” 


Yellowfang suddenly grew tired of the hints and 
comments. “Well, it’s none of our business!” she 
snapped. 

“You’re a medicine cat,’ Littlebird commented in 
surprise. “Everything the Clan does is your business.” 

“But perhaps some secrets are best kept,” 
Yellowfang whispered. 





CHAPTER 27 
w& 


“ 

The half-moon appeared fitfully through scattered 
clouds as Yellowfang toiled up the last slope toward 
Mothermouth. The other medicine cats were already 
waiting for her in the entrance to the tunnel. 
Yellowfang approached them nervously, worried that 
their experienced eyes would be able to detect signs of 
her recent kitting. J wish Sagewhisker had been able 
to come instead of me. But Sagewhisker was 
suffering from pains in her legs and deep inside her 
belly, so severe that Yellowfang had to struggle to 
block them out. The journey to Highstones would be 
too much for her, and Yellowfang wondered if the old 
medicine cat would ever travel there again. 

But there was no need for Yellowfang to feel 
nervous. When she padded up to her fellow medicine 
cats their greetings were friendly, except for 
Goosefeather, who was muttering into his chest fur as 
usual, hardly aware of his surroundings. 

“You look tired,’ Brambleberry mewed to 
Yellowfang. “Is there sickness in ShadowClan?” 


Yellowfang shrugged, trying not to show how 
relieved she was that Brambleberry had given her an 
excuse for her weariness. “Just the usual leaf-bare 
stuff,” she replied. “Nothing we can’t cope with.” 

“That’s good to hear,’ Featherwhisker murmured, 
with that oddly curious look that Yellowfang knew 
well “And everything else is going well for 
ShadowClan?” 

“Everything’s fine,’ Yellowfang told him. “Isn’t it 
time we were heading for the Moonstone?” 

“We know that!” Goosefeather snapped at her. 
“Young cats, think they have to teach their elders to 
eat mice ...” He lapsed into his mumbling again. 

“Come on, Goosefeather,’ Brambleberry meowed 
kindly, laying her tail on the old cat’s shoulders. “Let’s 
you and I lead the way.” She padded into the tunnel 
with Goosefeather by her side. 

Wanting to avoid any more of Featherwhisker’s 
probing questions, Yellowfang fell into step beside 
Hawkheart, leaving the second ThunderClan medicine 
cat to bring up the rear. 

“How are you finding life as a medicine cat?” 
Hawkheart asked her. “It took me a while to forget 


that I wasn’t a warrior anymore.” 

“Me too,” Yellowfang agreed, remembering the 
battle with the rats. 

“It helps if I remember that I’m more use to my 
Clan where I am now,” Hawkheart went on, his voice 
warm and friendly in the darkness. “Every cat has the 
potential to be a warrior, but only a few of us can be 
medicine cats.” 

“That’s true,” Yellowfang acknowledged. 

“When I look at a wounded cat,” Hawkheart went 
on, “I try to imagine how the wound was caused. 
That’s often a help in knowing the best treatment.” 

“Oh, I get that!” Yellowfang meowed, beginning to 
relax and enjoy the talk. “Like, whether it was teeth or 
claws or a sharp bit of a branch.” 

“Right,” Hawkheart agreed. “Sometimes—” He 
broke off. 

Ahead of them, Goosefeather had halted suddenly, 
and Yellowfang had to take a pace back to avoid 
bumping into him. /’d never hear the end of it if 1 
did! 

Hawkheart stumbled into her, thrown off balance by 
the sudden change in direction. “Sorry,” he muttered, 


then added, “Is that parsley I can smell on you?” 

Yellowfang’s belly clenched. She had forgotten that 
she might be carrying the scent of the herb she used to 
dry up her milk. Mouse dung! I should have rolled in 
some ferns or something on the way here to hide 
the scent. 

“I’m surprised you still have stocks of that in leaf- 
bare,’ Hawkheart continued as they set off again 
down the passage. 

Yellowfang couldn’t think what to say. “I guess 
we’re lucky,” she mewed after a moment. “I found a 
sheltered clump just the other day.” 

She sent a silent prayer of thanks to StarClan that 
they reached the cave of the Moonstone at that 
moment. The moon was already shining through the 
hole in the roof, waking a frosty light in the heart of the 
stone. There was no more time for talking. Yellowfang 
closed her eyes and leaned her muzzle against the cool 
surface of the crystal. Every muscle in her body ached 
with fatigue. Sagewhisker and I would never let a 
queen leave the camp so soon after kitting! 
Gratefully she sank into sleep. 

A warm breeze ruffled Yellowfang’s pelt. She jolted 


awake to find herself on a sunlit stretch of marshland. 
The sound of trickling water filled the air, and unseen 
birds sang overhead. A feeling of being watched crept 
over Yellowfang as she lay enjoying the sunlight on her 
fur. Sitting up, she noticed Silverflame beside her, 
gazing at her with eyes that were soft with sympathy. 

“Oh, Yellowfang,” she murmured. 

“You knew, didn’t you?” Yellowfang demanded with 
a snarl. “The night Sagewhisker made me a full 
medicine cat, I saw the reflection of three kits behind 
me. Why didn’t you tell me what was going to 
happen?” 

Silverflame sighed. “What good would that have 
done? I couldn’t change your future. Better that you 
didn’t grieve before it happened.” 

“I should have stopped seeing Raggedpelt!” 
Yellowfang protested. 

Silverflame regarded her gravely. “It was already 
too late. And not even the medicine cat code was 
strong enough to make you do that.” 

Yellowfang sprang up and started to pace, sending 
lizards and frogs skittermg from her paws. Js it my 
imagination, she wondered, or is the breeze turning 


colder? “Silverflame, what else do you know about 
the kits?” she asked, turning back toward the StarClan 
cat. “Do you know a small cat with black fur? Has he 
said anything to you? Is he from ShadowClan?” 

“A small black cat? Oh, you must mean Molepelt.” 
Silverflame hesitated, and Yellowfang wondered if she 
was hiding something. “Molepelt was the ShadowClan 
medicine cat many, many seasons ago. He makes little 
sense at the best of times,” Silverflame mewed. “He is 
treated with kindness, but it doesn’t always pay to 
listen too closely.” 

“He told me that a kit will be born that will bring fire 
and blood to the forest!” Yellowfang hissed, her voice 
shaking. “Why would he tell me if it wasn’t one of my 
kits? There’s something about Brokenkit ...” 

Yellowfang choked on the rest of her words as 
Silverflame swept her tail across her mouth. 

“A mother says nothing bad about her kits,” the 
StarClan warrior warned. “If you do not love them, 
who will?” 

“But I can’t be a proper mother to Brokenkit,” 
Yellowfang meowed wretchedly. 

“No, because you are a medicine cat, and your Clan 


must always come first.” Silverflame took a pace 
toward Yellowfang, and there was warmth in her gaze. 
“But that doesn’t mean you cannot be his friend, and a 
force for good in his life. Don’t give up on him, 
Yellowfang. You could be his only hope.” 

As Silverflame finished speaking the marshland 
around her started to fade, and Yellowfang knew she 
was waking up. “Wait!” she cried. “Where are my 
daughters? Are they here?” 

Silverflame was already no more than a glimmering 
outline, but as Yellowfang stared around, she caught a 
glimpse of two tiny, pale shapes watching her from a 
clump of grass. My precious kits! 

Yellowfang’s heart began pounding in her chest. She 
tried to run to the kits but instead of moving toward 
them she felt her legs paddling against cold, hard stone. 
She opened her eyes to find herself back in the cavern, 
fresh waves of grief surging over her until she could 
barely stop herself from screeching aloud. 

As she and the other cats rose to their paws, 
preparing to leave, Brambleberry padded up to 
Yellowfang. “Bad news?” she murmured into 
Yellowfang’s ear. 


Yellowfang shook her head. “Sad dreams, that’s all,” 
she replied. 


Yellowfang slipped out of camp before the dawn 
patrols had left. Pale light was trickling through the 
trees, but shadows still lay deep among the 
undergrowth. Dew clung to every blade of grass and 
cobweb. Fluffing up her fur against the chill, 
Yellowfang suppressed a yawn. The weather would 
warm up later in the day, and here and there she could 
spot a hint of green on the branches. With newleaf not 
far off, she was out early every morning, searching the 
forest for the herbs the Clan needed so badly after the 
cold of leaf-bare. She would dig carefully through the 
leaf mold to find the tiniest shoots, clearmg away 
debris so that they could reach the sunlight, and 
bringing back what she could. 

The sun dazzled her eyes by the time Yellowfang 
returned to camp. She had found a few precious 
comfrey leaves and tansy to soothe Nightpaw’s 
persistent cough, as well as a few blackbird feathers 
for Sagewhisker’s nest. As Yellowfang approached 
the camp, the first hunting patrol emerged from the 
tunnel. Raggedpelt was in the lead, with Foxheart 


beside him, followed by Mudclaw, Deerleap, and 
Russetfur, who gave Yellowfang a friendly wave of 
her tail as she passed. 

Raggedpelt and Foxheart were talking together; 
Foxheart broke off to give Yellowfang a scornful 
glance as they passed by. Raggedpelt didn’t even look 
at her. 

Yellowfang sighed as she plodded on toward the 
camp entrance. If they go on like that, they’ll only 
fuel the rumors that Brokenkit is Foxhearts. I’d 
have chosen any other queen in the Clan to be his 
mother! 

Emerging into the clearing, Yellowfang spotted 
Lizardstripe in a warm patch of sunlight near the fresh- 
kill pile, sharmg tongues with Nettlespot and Ashheart. 
There was no sign of her kits. Yellowfang assumed 
they were in the nursery, but as she approached her 
den she heard shrill squeaking coming from behind tt. 

Peering around the boulders, she found Deerkit, 
Tanglekit, and Runningkit all surrounding Brokenkit, 
who faced them with his dark tabby fur fluffed up. 

“We don’t want to play with you,’ Deerkit 
squeaked, screwing up his nose. “You smell funny.” 


“Yeah,” Tanglekit added. “Every cat says you’re a 
kittypet, like your father.” 

“My father is not a kittypet!” Brokenkit yowled, 
lashing out with one paw. 

Tanglekit leaped back to avoid the blow. Brokenkit 
was bigger and stronger than the others now. 
Runningkit and Deerkit shrank away from him too. 

“My father is the Clan deputy; he’s the best warrior 
in ShadowClan!” Brokenkit spat. 

“But who’s your mother?” Runningkit asked with a 
sniff. “Even you don’t know!” 

“Yeah, she could be anyone,” Deerkit mewed. “A 
rogue, a kittypet, a badger! Badger-stinky! Badger- 
stinky!” 

The other two kits joined in. “Badger-stinky!” 

Yellowfang dropped her herbs and feathers and 
strode into the middle of the group. “Enough!” she 
exclaimed, glaring around at Lizardstripe’s kits. 
“Deerkit, Tanglekit, Runningkit, you ought to be 
ashamed of yourselves! How dare you treat your 
Clanmate like this?” 

Runningkit had the grace to look ashamed, staring 
down at his paws and sniffling wretchedly. Deerkit and 


Tanglekit just looked defiant, though they didn’t dare 
say anything to a medicine cat. 

“Brokenkit, come with me,” Yellowfang meowed. 
She curled her thick tail around him and swept him 
away. 

Brokenkit stomped crossly beside her. “Now they’ 
think I’m scared of them! I could have beaten them if 
you hadn’t turned up! They’re so weak, I don’t care if 
there’s three of them and only one of me!” 

Yellowfang felt confused. She’d expected her kit to 
be grateful that she’d rescued him from the bullies. 
“Well, fighting isn’t the answer to everything,” she told 
him. “Your littermates need to learn how to behave. PI 
tell Lizardstripe and she’ ll punish them.” 

Brokenkit ran in front of her and turned to face her, 
his eyes wide and pleading. “Please don’t do that!” he 
begged. “Lizardstripe will only blame me! She doesn’t 
like me; she thinks I’m stealing milk from her kits.” 

“Of course she doesn’t think that!” Yellowfang 
exclaimed, shocked. 

“Yes, she does!” Brokenkit insisted. “I heard her 
saying it to Amberleaf. Nobody likes me.” 

Yellowfang’s heart twisted with love and regret. “I 


like you,” she mewed. “And so will all your Clanmates, 
once they get to know you. Now, why don’t you help 
me collect all these herbs and feathers and carry them 
into my den? You’re so strong, you probably don’t 
need me to help you!” 

Brokenkit’s chest puffed out proudly as he collected 
as much as he could manage, scattering a few leaves 
and feathers as he marched into Sagewhisker’s den. 

Sagewhisker was curled in her nest. She raised her 
head in surprise as the kit appeared, followed by 
Yellowfang. “Shouldn’t he be playing with his 
littermates?” she asked Yellowfang. 

Yellowfang knew that the old cat was giving her a 
warning. She didn’t reply, just showed Brokenkit 
where to put down his burden. 

“My littermates are stupid,’ Brokenkit snorted. 
“Yellowfang’s my friend now.” 

Yellowfang could feel the heat of Sagewhisker’s 
gaze on her fur but refused to share the old cat’s 
concern or even acknowledge it. What harm am I 
doing? “Brokenkit, would you like to help me fetch 
some clean moss?” 

Brokenkit nodded, bouncing on his paws. “I can 


carry more moss than any cat!” he boasted. 

Yellowfang knew that she couldn’t take him out of 
the camp, but there were some pieces of bark behind 
the elders’ den where moss grew. She led him across 
the clearing, aware of some startled glances from her 
Clanmates. 

“Now, you hold up the bark,’ she instructed 
Brokenkit, “so I can peel the moss from underneath.” 

“Like this?” Brokenkit burrowed under a piece of 
bark and sat up with it balanced on his head like an 
extra bit of pelt. 

Yellowfang mrrowed with amusement. “Not quite,” 
she meowed. “A squirrel might think that you’re a tree 
and try to climb up you.” 

Brokenkit let out a squeal. “I’m a tree! I’m a tree!” 
He jumped up and down until the bark fell off his head. 

Yellowfang showed him how to hold up the bark 
with one paw while she gathered the moss. When they 
had collected a good pile they bundled it together and 
Brokenkit helped her carry it back to her den. 

Admiring her son’s sturdy body and gleaming fur, 
Yellowfang glowed with pride. Why did I ever doubt 
his right to be born? He might grow up to be my 


apprentice, she thought, and work by my side for the 
rest of my life. That would be an even greater gift 
than being acknowledged as his mother! 





CHAPTER 28 
I% 


“ 
The bright newleaf sun shone down as Yellowfang 
laid out a bundle of borage leaves and some coltsfoot 
to dry on the flat ground outside her den. Brokenkit 
was playing close by, sometimes pouncing on the end 
of her tail, or batting a piece of moss into the air. 

“Take that, ThunderClan flea-pelt!” he growled, 
swiping at it with his paw. “That'll teach you to stay 
out of the ShadowClan camp!” 

“Look, Brokenkit,’ Yellowfang meowed. “These 
leaves are called borage. They’re good for treating 
cats who have a fever. And this is—” 

“Why are you telling me this stuff?” Brokenkit 
interrupted. “I’m not going to be a medicine cat! I’m 
going to be a warrior! Grrr! Watch me pounce!” He 
fell on the moss ball and shredded it to tiny scraps with 
his claws. 

Yellowfang watched him fondly. She knew that 
Sagewhisker didn’t approve of the time Brokenkit 
spent with her rather than with his littermates. But I 
dont see why Brokenkit should be treated like an 


outcast when I can look after him and make him 
feel special. 

She twitched an ear at the sound of sniffling, and 
looked up to see Runningkit crouched a few tail- 
lengths away, gazing at her intently as she sorted the 
herbs. “Hi,” she mewed. “Come and look if you want 
to.” 

Runningkit started, his fur fluffing up in alarm. For a 
heartbeat he hesitated, blinking anxiously, then with 
another huge sniff scampered off toward the nursery. 

Yellowfang shrugged, turning back to Brokenkit. In 
two more moons her son would be apprenticed, and 
then she would hardly see him because he would be so 
busy training with his mentor. For a heartbeat she felt a 
pang that he wouldn’t be training with her as a 
medicine cat, but she consoled herself with the thought 
that he was clearly going to be a great warrior. 

Brokenkit bounced off to find another moss ball and 
Yellowfang continued laying out her herbs until she 
saw Nightpelt padding up. He had been made a 
warrior two sunrises before, and Yellowfang could see 
his pride by the way he walked and held his head high. 
But he was still coughing. 


I’ve tried everything: herbs, honey, planning his 
choice of fresh-kill so he never eats anything with 
feathers. But nothing works. 

Every time the young warrior exerted himself, he 
would start coughing and gasping for breath. 
Yellowfang could see his frustration as he came up to 
her, coughing again as he tried to speak. He looks 
tired and thin, when he should be young and strong 
like his littermates. 

“Sit down,” Yellowfang meowed. “Just breathe 
gently. I'll get you some wet moss.” 

“There must be some way of fixing this!” Nightpelt 
rasped when she returned. 

Yellowfang shook her head. “No herbs will help,” 
she told him as she set the moss down beside him. 
“You just need to calm down and relax.” 

“I know. But it’s not easy,’ Nightpelt retorted. For 
all his troubles, there was no anger in his voice; he was 
still friendly and good-humored. 

“I mentioned you to Hawkheart at a recent half- 
moon Gathering,” Yellowfang went on, as Nightpelt 
gratefully lapped the water from the moss. “He said 
that a WindClan cat had the same symptoms— 


coughing after running around—but without any signs 
of a fever or sickness. Hawkheart didn’t have a name 
for it; it was just something the cat had to live with.” 

Nightpelt looked up apprehensively. “And what 
happened to the cat?” 

Yellowfang half wished she hadn’t brought the 
subject up because there wasn’t any good news to 
give the young warrior. “He was unable to do all his 
warrior duties, and had to retire to the elders’ den 
early,” she admitted. 

“TIl never do that!” Nightpelt exclaimed. “I want to 
be a warrior! ShadowClan deserves that!” 

Yellowfang stretched out her tail to rest it 
comfortingly on Nightpelt’s shoulder. “ShadowClan 
doesn’t expect its cats to work themselves to the bone 
when they’re not fit enough. Now, sit down and be 
quiet until you can breathe normally.” 

Sagewhisker bustled out of the medicine cats’ den, 
thrusting Brokenkit in front of her. Her blue eyes were 
snapping with annoyance. 

Yellowfang rose and went to meet them. “Is there a 
problem?” 

“I caught this kit taking moss from the store inside 


the den!” Sagewhisker meowed crossly. “As if we 
didn’t have to work to collect it!” 

Brokenkit gazed up at the old cat with defiance in 
his eyes. “I wanted some to play with! You can always 
get more!” 

Sagewhisker fixed Yellowfang with a stern gaze, 
clearly expecting her to deal with him. 

“Brokenkit, if you want moss you know where to 
get some,” Yellowfang mewed. “There’s plenty behind 
the elders’ den. But please don’t take the moss from 
our store.” Does Sagewhisker expect me to punish 
him? she wondered. Hes only a kit! 

She was trying to figure what to do when Deerkit 
and Tanglekit tumbled out of the nursery and bounded 
across to Brokenkit. 

“Still hanging out with the medicine cats?” Deerkit 
sneered. “Old she-cats and a sick warrior are the only 
friends yov’ ve got!” 

Tanglekit padded forward until she was almost nose- 
to-nose with Brokenkit. “What skills are you learning?” 
she asked in a mock-interested voice. “How to dry 
herbs? Ooh, our enemies will be scared!” 

“Yeah, I can just hear him in a battle!” Deerkit 


added. ““Come one step closer and PI slap you with 
this leaf!” 

Brokenkit’s neck fur bristled up and he swiped at 
Deerkit, catching him a blow on the nose. 

Deerkit let out an outraged yowl. “That hurt!” 

“And it serves you right,” Yellowfang snapped. “Go 
back to the nursery until you learn how to be nice.” 

The two kits trailed off, casting resentful glances 
behind them as they went. 

“Don’t listen to them, Brokenkit,’ Yellowfang went 
on when they had gone. “There’s nothing wrong with 

Brokenkit turned on her, anger flaring in his eyes. 
“They’re right. I’m not learning anything useful here! 
You’re just a dumb old medicine cat, not a warrior. 
Why do you make me come here all the time?” 

“I don’t make you.” Shocked, Yellowfang reached 
out her tail to him, but Brokenkit batted it away. 

“Quit bugging me, and leave me alone!” With a 
furious hiss, he ran off. 

Yellowfang stared after him miserably. What have 1 
done? 

“Perhaps it’s for the best,’ Sagewhisker murmured 


in her ear. “He needs to grow up as normal as possible 
so that he’s not singled out any more than he already 
has been.” 

Yellowfang rounded on her. “What would you 
know?” she demanded. “He’s my son! Pd do 
anything to stop him from being hurt!” 


In the days that followed, Brokenkit avoided the 
medicine cats’ den. Yellowfang never gave up hope 
that he would come back. Every time she heard him 
outside she would rush to the entrance, but he always 
turned away from her. Yet he was constantly alone; his 
littermates went on ignoring him, even Runningkit, who 
had never joined in the bullying since Yellowfang had 
interrupted them. 

Watching Brokenkit wrestle with a stick in the 
middle of the clearing, Yellowfang’s heart ached for 
him. He was so strong and confident and handsome; 
even his crooked tail didn’t show so much now that his 
fur had thickened. But he doesn t have any friends. 

“Brokenkit never plays with the others.” 

Yellowfang was startled to hear her own thoughts 
spoken aloud. The voice was Amberleaf’s; the dark 
orange she-cat was strolling past with Blizzardwing, on 


their way to join Raggedpelt, who was sorting out the 
patrols near the camp entrance. 

“Well, he’s not like the others, is he?” Blizzardwing 
commented. “But he’s a strong young cat. He’ll be 
fine once he’s an apprentice.” 

The two cats padded on, out of earshot. Yellowfang 
gazed after them, trying to comfort herself with the 
thought that Blizzardwing was right. 

When the patrols had left, Raggedpelt bounded over 
to where Brokenkit was playing and stood watching 
him. After a moment, Brokenkit realized that he was 
there and looked up. 

“Try attacking with both paws at once,” Raggedpelt 
advised. “If it was a real enemy, you’d need to leap on 
him with the full power of your claws.” 

Brokenkit nodded and leaped on the stick again, 
smashing both paws down on it so that it splintered. 
Raggedpelt gave him a nod of approval. 

Cedarstar had emerged from his den to watch the 
exchange between Raggedpelt and his son. “He looks 
very strong,” he remarked to Raggedpelt. 

“Yes, he’s ready to be an apprentice,’ Raggedpelt 
responded proudly. 


Yellowfang glimpsed a flash of trouble in 
Cedarstar’s eyes as he studied Brokenkit battering the 
stick. “Being an apprentice isn’t just about being able 
to fight our enemies,” he meowed. “Brokenkit needs to 
learn the importance of patience, honor, and loyalty as 
well, just like any young cat.” 

“He’ll have all of those!” Raggedpelt assured him. 
“Just you wait!” 

As Yellowfang watched Brokenkit glowering over 
the pieces of stick, she tried to suppress the memory of 
Molepelt’s dire warning. Brokenkit is going to be 
fine! 

A heart-wrenching cry from her den drove these 
thoughts from Yellowfang’s mind. She spun around and 
raced inside to find Sagewhisker sprawled on her side 
next to the herb stores, gasping in pain. In the same 
heartbeat Yellowfang felt a searing agony in her chest. 
For a moment her heart seemed to stop, and she 
couldn’t breathe. 

No! Sagewhisker! 

Using all the control she had taught herself, 
Yellowfang fought through the pain and staggered to 
Sagewhisker’s side. “Hold on!” she begged. “Please 


hold on! Pll help you....” 

“I can’t ... it’s too much,’ Sagewhisker hissed 
through clenched teeth. “StarClan needs me now....” 

“What’s happening?” Brightflower appeared at the 
entrance to the den and rushed across to Sagewhisker. 

At the same moment Sagewhisker’s whole body 
convulsed and then was still Her clear blue eyes 
clouded over, gazing at nothing. 

“Sagewhisker ...” Yellowfang whispered. 

“She hunts with StarClan now,’ Brightflower 
murmured, laying her tail across Yellowfang’s shoulder 
and drawing her away. “She served her Clan well,” 
she meowed. “No ShadowClan cat will ever forget 
her.” 

Yellowfang nodded, but she was too stunned to say 
anything. She was aware of Brightflower leaving the 
den, and a short while later Cedarstar appeared. 
Yellowfang watched in a blur as he stood beside 
Sagewhisker’s body and dipped his head in a gesture 
of respect. 

“Farewell, Clanmate,” he meowed. “You were a 
good medicine cat and a good friend. May you 
continue to guide ShadowClan as you walk in the 


stars.” 

The elders followed the Clan leader into the den and 
carried Sagewhisker’s body into the clearing for the 
vigil. Yellowfang stumbled after them, numb with grief. 
The rest of the Clan padded up, touching their noses to 
Sagewhisker’s cold fur, quietly sharing memories of 
her as they gathered around. 

Yellowfang crouched beside her mentor all the rest 
of that day and all night, while the stars whirled 
overhead. “I’m sorry, Sagewhisker,” she murmured. 
“T’m so sorry for letting you down. I promise to uphold 
the code of the medicine cats until my very last 
breath.” Her voice cracked. “I owe you so much....” 

The sky was milky pale when the elders arrived to 
take Sagewhisker’s body away for burial. Yellowfang 
rose to her paws, feeling stiff and dazed after the long 
vigil. 

“May StarClan light your path, Sagewhisker,’ she 
mewed, her voice ringing out over the camp as she 
spoke the ancient farewell for all lost Clanmates. “May 
you find good hunting, swift running, and shelter when 
you sleep.” Then she stood back to let Littlebird, 
Stonetooth, and Lizardfang pick up the body. 


Littlebird paused beside her. “You'll be a good 
medicine cat,’ she murmured kindly. “Just as 
Sagewhisker was. ShadowClan is lucky to have you.” 

Yellowfang watched as the three elders bore 
Sagewhisker’s body out of the camp. 

Oh, Littlebird, I wish I could believe you! 





CHAPTER 29 
I% 


a 
“Nightpelt, you are an intelligent and dedicated 
warrior,’ Cedarstar meowed. “I know that you will do 
your best to pass on these qualities to Brokenpaw.” 

Nightpelt dipped his head to the Clan leader. “P1 do 
my best, Cedarstar,” he promised, his eyes shining with 
pride. He had hardly coughed at all through the 
apprentice ceremony. 

“Brokenpaw! Brokenpaw!” 

Yellowfang’s heart swelled with pride as the Clan 
greeted her son by his new name. She felt a rush of 
relief, too, that Cedarstar had chosen Nightpelt as his 
mentor. Nightpelt was sensible and wise, and would 
teach Brokenpaw that there was more to the warrior 
code than fighting. 

But she was disconcerted to see the shock in 
Brokenpaw’s face when Cedarstar named his mentor. 
He hesitated for a moment before padding over to 
Nightpelt to touch noses with him. She was even more 
worried when she heard him mutter to Deerpaw, 
“How come I got the sick cat? That’s so not fair!” 


Yellowfang was sure that Nightpelt must have heard 
him too, although he gave no sign of it. 

Deerpaw had been apprenticed to Cloudpelt, and 
Tanglepaw to Wolfstep. Both of them looked ready to 
burst with pride and excitement, and even Lizardstripe 
looked pleased. In contrast Brokenpaw just stood 
glowering at his paws. 

It will be all right, Yellowfang tried to tell herself. 
Once Brokenpaw starts training, he’ll realize how 
much Nightpelt has to teach him. 

She tried to put Brokenpaw out of her mind as 
Cedarstar raised his tail for silence once again. I’ve 
got something important to do, too, she thought, with 
a tingle of excitement in her paws. Runningkit looked 
excited as well, his eyes shining as he gazed at his 
Clan leader. 

“Come forward,” Cedarstar called to Yellowfang, 
beckoning her with his tail. As she stepped toward him, 
he went on, “The last two moons have been hard 
without Sagewhisker, and I know that within 
ShadowClan our former medicine cat will be mourned 
forever.” 

A murmur of agreement rose from the Clan, and 


Yellowfang felt a fresh pang of grief for the old cat 
who had taught her so much. 

“But the line of ShadowClan medicine cats will 
continue,” Cedarstar announced, “with a new 
apprentice, Runningkit. Yellowfang, you have already 
proven yourself to be a skilled and loyal medicine cat. I 
know that you will pass on all your knowledge to 
Runningkit.” 

“I will, Cedarstar,” Yellowfang promised. 

“Runningkit,’ the Clan leader meowed, “do you 
accept the post of apprentice to Yellowfang?” 

“Yes, Cedarstar.” Runningkit’s voice went up in an 
excited squeak, and he scuffled his front paws in 
embarrassment. 

“Then from this moment you shall be known as 
Runningpaw. And the good wishes of ShadowClan go 
with you,” the Clan leader finished. 

“Runningpaw! Runningpaw!” 

As his Clan greeted him, Runningpaw scampered 
over to Yellowfang, gave a huge sniff, then reached up 
to touch noses with her. 

Yellowfang winced. The first thing I'll teach him 
will be to cure his own sniffles. 


‘TIl take you to the half-moon Gathering soon to 
meet the other medicine cats,’ she whispered to 
Runningpaw, who danced on the spot. 

As the cats separated—Lizardstripe rejoining the 
warriors with a huge sigh of relief—Yellowfang 
followed the other mentors and their apprentices out of 
the camp for thei first tour of the territory. 
Runningpaw bounced by her side. 

“Will we see cats from other Clans?” he panted. 
“What happens if we do?” 

“We might spot a patrol on the other side of the 
Thunderpath,” Yellowfang admitted. “If we do, we 
greet them and go on our way.” She hesitated, then 
added, “Later I'll teach you some fighting moves. You 
need to be able to defend yourself. But never forget 
that you’re a medicine cat, not a warrior. You don’t go 
looking for trouble, and you never—never—attack 
first.” 

Runningpaw nodded seriously. ‘Pl remember, 
Yellowfang.” 

As they toured the territory, Yellowfang enjoyed 
seeing her apprentice’s astonishment when he realized 
how big the forest was, which made her recall her own 


first exploration with Deerleap. The sight of the 
Carrionplace shocked him and he shivered when 
Yellowfang told him about the battle with the rats. 

“But never forget,’ Yellowfang warned as they 
padded past at a safe distance, “rats are dangerous, 
but warriors are more dangerous! And medicine cats 
know just what to do for rat bites.” 

“Cobwebs for bleeding, right?” Runningpaw 
mewed. 

“Right, but some wounds get infected. Marigold and 
horsetail are good for that, but best of all for rat bites is 
wild garlic or burdock root.” 

“Marigold ... horsetail ... wild garlic ... burdock 
root ...” Runningpaw muttered under his breath. 
“Great StarClan, there’s a lot to learn!” 

He halted, shocked, when they reached the 
Thunderpath with monsters roaring past. “Mudclaw 
told us about it,’ he gasped, “but I never thought it 
would be like this! Are those monsters dangerous?” 

“Only if you try to cross the Thunderpath,” 
Yellowfang told him. “I don’t know why, but they 
never leave it.” 

“But we have to cross it to get to Fourtrees, don’t 


we?” 

Yellowfang shook her head. “There’s a tunnel that 
goes underneath it, leading to a little bit of ShadowClan 
territory that borders ThunderClan and WindClan.” 

Runningpaw’s eyes sparkled. “So we could visit 
ThunderClan territory? Great!” 

“We could,” Yellowfang replied severely, “but we’re 
not going to because we’re too courteous and 
honorable to go wandering over another Clan’s borders 
without good reason. There’s another tunnel, too, that 
leads directly onto WindClan territory, over there.” She 
waved her tail at the swell of moorland beyond the 
Thunderpath. “And before you ask, no, WindClan 
warriors aren’t just rabbit-eating nuisances, even if 
that’s what you’ve heard. But you don’t need to be 
afraid of them, either.” She felt a warm glow of pride 
as she added, “ShadowClan is a match for any Clan.” 

Yellowfang started to look for herbs as they 
continued, to teach her apprentice what they looked 
like and what they were used for. But she hurried 
more quickly past the border with the Twolegplace, 
even though Runningpaw wanted to linger. 

“Do we ever go there?” he asked, staring curiously 


at the sharp red Twoleg dens. “I think it’d be cool to 
meet a kittypet!” 

Yellowfang felt her fur bristle as she thought of Hal 
and the other kittypets who had attacked the camp. 
“No, it wouldn’t be cool,” she snapped. “We don’t go 
there and they don’t come here. We don’t bother one 
another, and that’s best for all of us.” 

“Okay.” Runningpaw blinked, looking slightly 
disappointed. Then he brightened up and pattered along 
beside Yellowfang as she headed back to the camp. 

As they approached the camp entrance, Yellowfang 
heard a voice raised angrily, and flinched as she 
recognized that it was Brokenpaw’s. 

“But I want to! Why can’t I?” 

Rounding a bramble thicket, Yellowfang came upon 
Brokenpaw and Nightpelt glaring at each other. 
Brokenpaw’s fur was bushed out to twice his size, and 
his yellow eyes shone. 

“Because we’ve done enough for one day, touring 
the whole territory,’ Nightpelt explained. “We—” He 
had to break off to cough, the only sign that he was 
under stress, for his tone was calm and patient. 

“But I want to learn battle moves!” his apprentice 


insisted. 

“Training will begin tomorrow. We’ll start with 
hunting practice. Don’t you want to catch your own 
prey?” 

“I want to fight,’ Brokenpaw growled, tearing at a 
clump of ferns with unsheathed claws. “Look how 
strong I am! I’m bigger than the other apprentices. 
They can do the hunting and the boring stuff around 
the camp. Let me do battle with the other warriors!” 

Nightpelt’s tail-tip twitched. “There are no battles to 
fight at the moment, Brokenpaw. You'll have a chance 
to learn everything, but you need to go at the right 
pace. Don’t be impatient!” 

Brokenpaw glared at his mentor for a heartbeat 
longer, then spun around and stalked away. “Coughing 
old fool!” he muttered under his breath. 

“Off you go back to camp,’ Yellowfang told 
Runningpaw. “You can choose a piece of prey from 
the fresh-kill pile.” 

“Thanks, Yellowfang!” her apprentice exclaimed. 
“And thanks for today. It was awesome!” 

When he had scampered off, Yellowfang padded 
over to Nightpelt. ‘“Couldn’t you have shown 


Brokenpaw a couple of moves?” she meowed. “He’s 
right about being bigger than the other apprentices, and 
he seems to be getting bored. There’s no reason he 
can’t learn more quickly, is there?” 

Nightpelt’s eyes narrowed, and Yellowfang realized 
she might have gone too far. “I’m his mentor, and I'll 
decide when he learns to fight!” the warrior retorted. 
Another coughing fit seized him; when it was over he 
dipped his head to Yellowfang. “I’m sorry I snapped at 
you,” he rasped. “The tour of the territory wore me 
out. I’m going to rest.” 

As he limped off, Yellowfang stared after him with 
concern. He’ looking old before his time—and if 
his cough interferes with training, that wont be fair 
to Brokenpaw. 


Emerging from the tunnel, Yellowfang spotted 
Cedarstar lying with his back against the warm 
Clanrock, watching his Clanmates feed. Yellowfang 
marched over to him. But as she approached, she 
passed a group of elders, stretched out in a sunny spot 
as they shared tongues and fresh-kill. 

“You don’t get squirrels like you did when I was a 
warrior,’ Deerleap meowed; she had recently moved 


to the elders’ den with Crowtail and Archeye. “I could 
climb the highest tree in the forest after a squirrel, no 
trouble.” 

“Ah, but could you climb down again?” Archeye 
asked with a mrrow of amusement. 

‘T’m not still up there, am I?” Deerleap snapped, 
slapping at him with her tail. 

Yellowfang noticed that Littlebird was listening with 
a look of fond indulgence, while Lizardfang shifted 
restlessly, pushing away his share of the squirrel. 

‘T’m too old to need feeding,” he sighed. “PI be 
heading for StarClan soon.” 

“Nonsense!” Littlebird meowed. “You’ve seasons in 
you yet, Lizardfang.” She clawed at a piece of squirrel 
and set it in front of him. “Here, try this. It’s lovely and 
fresh. Rowanberry caught it just for us.” 

Affection for Littlebird surged over Yellowfang, 
seeing the elder choosing the softest parts of the 
squirrel for her denmate to eat. She realized that 
Cedarstar was watching too. 

“The Clan is growing older,” the leader commented 
softly to her. “Myself included. It’s time to prepare 
new cats to take over the responsibilities of running the 


Clan.” Looking Yellowfang up and down, he added, 
“Sagewhisker chose well in you, Yellowfang. I admit 
that I had some doubts at first ...” 

Oh, no! Yellowfang thought. Does he know about 
Raggedpelt? 

“But you have more than proven your loyalty and 
skill” Cedarstar went on. “Runningpaw is lucky to 
have you as a mentor.” 

“It was mentoring that I wanted to talk to you 
about,” Yellowfang meowed, taking the chance 
Cedarstar offered her. “It’s Nightpelt. His cough is still 
really bad, and I think it will hinder him being a mentor. 
Brokenpaw is so strong and fit; he needs a mentor 
who can keep up with him, and I don’t think Nightpelt 
can do that.” 

Cedarstar gazed keenly at Yellowfang from 
narrowed eyes. “I chose Nightpelt deliberately,’ he 
explained, “because I think Brokenpaw has lessons to 
learn in patience and selflessness. He is a cat who 
needs to choose between two paths: one that will serve 
his Clan loyally and one that ... will be less helpful.” 

His words chilled Yellowfang. Does he know about 
Molepelt’s prophecy? 


Cedarstar rose to his paws, dipping his head slightly 
to show that the conversation was at an end. “T will 
watch all of the apprentices to make sure they are 
progressing well,’ he meowed. There was a hint of 
warning in his voice as he added, “Brokenpaw is not to 
be singled out, at any cost.” 

Reluctantly, Yellowfang nodded. 

“Tell me about the other medicine cats!” 
Runningpaw begged, bouncing around the medicine 
cats’ den and getting under Yellowfang’s paws. 

“What for? You'll meet them soon,” Yellowfang 
responded. 

Runningpaw had been her apprentice for a quarter 
moon, and tonight he would go with her to his first full- 
moon Gathering. 

“But I’m nervous! I won’t know what to say. 
Please, Yellowfang!” 

“Okay, but let me sort these herbs at the same 
time.” Yellowfang uncovered the first store and 
plunged her paw into the hole. “Let’s see 
Goosefeather is the ThunderClan medicine cat. He’s a 
bit ... strange. If he snaps at you, pay no attention; he 
doesn’t mean anything. ThunderClan has a second 


medicine cat, Featherwhisker. He tends to ask too 
many questions about ShadowClan.” Yellowfang 
turned to her apprentice and gave him a hard stare. 
“Whatever you do, don ¢ tell him anything.” 

“I won't, Yellowfang,” Runningpaw promised, eyes 
wide. 

“Then there’s Hawkheart of WindClan,” Yellowfang 
went on. “He can sound gruff, but he’s a good cat. 
And Brambleberry of RiverClan—you’ll like her, she’s 
so kind and friendly.” 

Yellowfang covered up the first hole, took more 
herbs out of another one, then laid everything out in 
front of Runningpaw. “These are for Lizardfang,” she 
announced. “He says he’s always thirsty, and he’s 
losing a lot of weight. Now, tell me what these herbs 
are and why I’m giving them to him.” 

Runningpaw studied the herbs. “That’s sorrel,’ he 
mewed, pointing with one paw. “That’s to build up 
Lizardfang’s appetite. That one is burnet, to make him 
feel generally better and stronger, and the juniper berry 

. oh, StarClan, I’ve forgotten!” He hesitated a 
moment, gave a sniff, then added, “Is the juniper to 
strengthen his stomach?” 


“Very good,” Yellowfang purred. 

‘Tl take them to Lizardfang, if you like,” 
Runningpaw offered. “And I’ll make sure he has wet 
moss.” 

“Thanks, Runningpaw,” Yellowfang responded. “Be 
as quick as you can, and meet me in the clearing. It’s 
almost time to go.” 

Her apprentice tucked the herbs into a neat leaf 
wrap and hurried off. Yellowfang made sure the den 
was tidy, then followed him out. The cats who were 
going to the Gathering had assembled around 
Cedarstar and Raggedpelt in the middle of the clearing. 
Darkness had fallen, though the moon still hadn’t risen 
above the trees. The sky was clear except for a few 
thin puffs of cloud. 

Yellowfang strained to see Brokenpaw. It took her a 
few moments to spot him; he wasn’t with his mentor, 
like the other apprentices. She finally saw him standing 
beside Raggedpelt, who was letting him stay there 
instead of sending him back to his proper place. 
Nightpelt just looked resigned. A flash of indignation 
seared through Yellowfang. Why can t Nightpelt keep 
his apprentice under better control? 


Cedarstar waved his tail as the signal to move off. 
Yellowfang looked around for Runningpaw, who 
dashed to her side as she was waiting to go through 
the thorn tunnel. 

“Lizardfang’s okay,” he panted. “He ate the herbs. 
Littlebird says she’ ll fetch him more water if he needs 
it.” 

“Great.” Yellowfang gave him a nod of approval. 

The Clan trekked through the forest and along the 
tunnel that led to the patch of ShadowClan territory on 
the far side of the Thunderpath. As they headed 
toward Fourtrees, Brokenpaw suddenly shot away 
from the rest of his Clanmates, racing for the 
ThunderClan border. 

Cedarstar halted, his tail lashing, and Raggedpelt 
yowled, “Brokenpaw! Get back here!” 

Brokenpaw paused on the border for a couple of 
heartbeats before padding back to the group. “I was 
just making sure that the ThunderClan scent marks 
were on the right side of the border,’ he explained. 
“This is a vulnerable piece of territory. We can’t 
neglect it, when getting to Fourtrees is so important.” 

Raggedpelt nodded. “True. But next time ask before 


you go dashing off.” 

Yellowfang noticed two or three of the older 
warriors echoing Raggedpelt’s approval, and her heart 
swelled with pride. 

“Good call,” Blackfoot purred. 

“Yes,” Russetfur added. “I can see you’re going to 
make your Clan strong, Brokenpaw.” 

“You'll be a great warrior,’ Boulder agreed. 

The ShadowClan cats were the first to arrive at 
Fourtrees. By now the moon was floating high above, 
shedding its silvery light over the meeting place. 
Runningpaw halted at the top of the hollow, his eyes 
wide with awe as he gazed down. “It’s huge!” he 
gasped. “Yellowfang, is that the Great Rock where the 
leaders stand?” 

“That’s right,” Yellowfang told him. “They—” 

She broke off at a triumphant yowl from 
Brokenpaw. He hurtled down the slope into the hollow, 
outstripping all the other cats, and dashed straight for 
the Great Rock. He was bunching his muscles to leap 
when Nightpelt called him back. 

“You can’t go up there,” he scolded. “That’s only 
for the leaders.” 


For a heartbeat Brokenpaw looked angry; then he 
flicked his tail. “One day,” he promised. He raced off 
to explore the rest of the hollow. 

Before Yellowfang and Runningpaw were halfway 
down the slope, Brokenpaw was back. “More cats are 
coming!” he announced. 

Pinestar appeared at the top of the hollow with the 
cats of ThunderClan behind him. Yellowfang spotted 
Featherwhisker, and led Runningpaw down to meet 
him. 

“Greetings,” mewed the ThunderClan medicine cat. 
“So you have a new apprentice. Welcome,” he greeted 
Runningpaw. “I hope to see you at the Moonstone 
soon.” 

Runningpaw ducked his head. “Thank you.” 

“Where’s Goosefeather?” Yellowfang asked. 

Featherwhisker shook his head. “I, I’m afraid,” he 
replied. “He can’t be here tonight.” 

“I’m sorry,” Yellowfang began, then broke off as 
more cats poured into the clearmg. WindClan and 
RiverClan had arrived together, and Runningpaw was 
looking a bit daunted. 

“Stay by my side,” Yellowfang told him. “We’ll head 


for the Great Rock. The medicine cats always sit 
together at the bottom.” 

Together she and Runningpaw squirmed through the 
crowd, followed by Featherwhisker. Brambleberry and 
Hawkheart welcomed Runningpaw warmly, and 
Yellowfang saw that another young cat was sitting 
with Hawkheart. 

“This is my new apprentice,’ Hawkheart meowed. 
“His name is Barkpaw.” 

“Oh, great!” Runningpaw exclaimed, sitting beside 
the brown tom. “We can learn together.” 

Barkpaw gave him a shy nod. “I don’t know much 
yet,” he mewed. “There are so many different herbs, I 
get confused.” 

“So do I,” Runningpaw admitted. “I’m really good at 
clearing out old bedding, though!” 

Glancing up at the Great Rock, Yellowfang saw the 
four leaders looking down at their Clans, ready to start 
the Gathering. She silenced the apprentices with a 
wave of her tail. 

Cedarstar was the first of the leaders to step 
forward to the front of the Great Rock. “ShadowClan 
has good news to report,’ he meowed. “We have 


made four new apprentices. Tanglepaw, Brokenpaw, 
and Deerpaw will train as warriors, while Runningpaw 
is apprenticed to Yellowfang and will become a 
medicine cat.” 

The cats in the clearmg—especially the 
ShadowClan cats—began to yowl the names of the 
new apprentices. Runningpaw sat upright, eyes shining 
with pride and his whiskers quivering. Yellowfang 
couldn’t spot Brokenpaw in the throng. 

“The Clan has been strengthening its borders,” 
Cedarstar went on as the noise died down. “We look 
forward to good hunting throughout newleaf and 
greenleaf.” He gave a meaningful glance around at the 
other Clans, then stepped back to give his place to 
Pinestar, who was followed by Hailstar of RiverClan 
and Heatherstar of WindClan. 

All the other leaders had good news to report, and 
Yellowfang was impressed by how well they looked. 
Except Pinestar, she thought, wondering if anything 
was wrong with the ThunderClan leader. He looks a 
bit listless and distracted. 

The WindClan leader announced Barkpaw’s 
apprenticeship, and the cats yowled his name too. 


Barkpaw sat beside Runningpaw looking very proud 
and embarrassed. As Heatherstar continued to talk 
about plentiful rabbits and some fleet-footed young 
cats, Yellowfang heard a commotion break out at the 
edge of the clearing. Yowls and screeches drowned 
what the WindClan leader was trying to say. 

Craning her neck, Yellowfang spotted a familiar 
dark brown shape. Brokenpaw! He was wrestling 
with two young cats. From ther skinny frames 
Yellowfang guessed they were from WindClan. 

From his place on top of the great Rock, Cedarstar 
leaped to his paws. His voice rang out above the 
turmoil. “Brokenpaw! Stop fighting at once! This is a 
Gathering!” Turning to Heatherstar, he dipped his head 
and added, “I am sorry, Heatherstar. He is a young 
apprentice and it’s his first time at a Gathering. I will 
deal with him afterward.” 

Heatherstar dipped her head. “No cat blames you, 
Cedarstar,” she meowed with dignity. “But be sure to 
remind your apprentices of the importance of keeping 
the truce at fullmoon. I shall speak to my own 
apprentices, too.” 

Yellowfang’s heart sank. Brokenpaw had violated 


one of the most important rules of the warrior code, 
and in full view of the four Clan leaders. The young 
cats had broken apart, but Yellowfang couldn’t see 
what was happening now. Beside her, Runningpaw 
was standing on the tips of his paws, craning to see 
over the heads of the crowd. “What happened?” he 
mewed. “What was Brokenpaw thinking?” 

“T’d guess he wasn’t thinking at all,’ Featherwhisker 
muttered. 

Cats were shifting around, whispering. Eventually 
Yellowfang heard Russetfur speaking to Raggedpett. 
“Apparently Brokenpaw accused the WindClan 
apprentices of coming through the tunnel under the 
Thunderpath to steal prey. He jumped on them when 
they denied it.” 

Runningpaw had overheard Russetfur’s words too. 
“What will happen to the Gathering?” he gasped, his 
eyes wide with shock. 

It was Featherwhisker who replied. “We’ll carry on, 
because the moon is still clear. If StarClan wanted us 
to stop, they’d send clouds to cover the moon.” 

Yellowfang glanced up—not at the moon, but at the 
glittering stars that surrounded it, scattered thickly 


across the sky. Are the warriors of StarClan 
watching Brokenpaw now? 

When Heatherstar had finished her interrupted 
speech, the four leaders sprang down from the Great 
Rock. The cats below relaxed and started to share 
news with friends in other Clans. But Cedarstar 
gathered the ShadowClan cats around him with a flick 
of his tail. “We’re leaving,” he growled. 

“What?” Blizzardwing protested. “Already?” 

Yellowfang saw Nightpelt padding up with 
Brokenpaw beside him; the black warrior was clearly 
furious, but Brokenpaw only looked sullen and defiant. 

“One of our apprentices doesn’t deserve to stay and 
meet others.” Cedarstar glared at Brokenpaw, then 
turned and led the way out of the hollow. 

Yellowfang was walking just behind Cedarstar, with 
Runningpaw at her side. Before they reached the top 
of the hollow she was shoved roughly aside, almost 
losing her balance. Runningpaw steadied her. When 
Yellowfang turned to glare at the cat who had pushed 
her, she saw it was Raggedpelt. 

The tabby tom had fallen in beside Cedarstar. “You 
didn’t have to single out Brokenpaw in front of all the 


Clans like that!” he challenged his leader angrily. “Or 
scold him like that. There were two other apprentices 
involved! Brokenpaw was only defending ShadowClan 
honor!” 

“Your son broke the rules of the truce.” Cedarstar’s 
anger was colder and more controlled. “I cannot let 
that happen.” 

Raggedpelt snorted. “Loyalty and courage mean 
more than rules,” he growled. 

But that kind of loyalty and courage starts 
battles, Yellowfang thought, with a flutter of alarm in 
her belly. Oh, StarClan, please let Brokenpaw learn 
to curb his temper. 





CHAPTER 30 
w& 


“ 
The mellow sunlight of late greenleaf shone over the 
camp. Sunhigh was just past, and hunting patrols were 
returning, their jaws laden with prey. Yellowfang and 
Runningpaw pushed through the brambles after an 
herb-gathering expedition in the marshes. 

‘TIl put these away,” Yellowfang meowed as they 
dropped the bunches of herbs in their den. “You go 
check on Littlebird. Take her some wet moss.” 

“Sure, Yellowfang.” Runningpaw hurried away. 

Yellowfang sighed. Lizardfang joined StarClan two 
moons ago, and now Littlebird was growing very frail. 
Yellowfang was worried that soon she would have to 
say farewell to her old friend. 

She had begun to sort the herbs when she heard a 
paw step outside the den and Tanglepaw hopped in on 
three legs. 

“What happened to you?” Yellowfang asked. 

“I got scratched.” Tanglepaw turned to show 
Yellowfang a nasty claw mark scored across one of 
her haunches. 


“How did you get this?” Yellowfang gasped, 
wondering if there was a fox in the territory. 

“I was practicing a battle move with Brokenpaw,” 
Tanglepaw_ explained, not sounding particularly 
bothered. 

Yellowfang gazed at the young she-cat in horror. 
“You’re supposed to fight with claws sheathed! You 
know that!” 

“Yes, but Brokenpaw said we’d get even better if 
there was a real threat of getting hurt!” Tanglepaw’s 
eyes were shining with admiration for her denmate. 

“And are you a better fighter?” Yellowfang asked 
dryly. 

“T will be next time!” Tanglepaw promised. 

Yellowfang got her to lick the wound clean while 
she took some marigold out of the store. Rubbing the 
leaves on her wound, she told Tanglepaw, “Keep it dry 
and rested for at least one day. And don’t fight with 
claws out again. I don’t care what Brokenpaw says. I 
don’t collect herbs just to treat mouse-brained 
apprentices!” 

She could tell her warning had gone straight over 
Tanglepaw’s head. “I’m going back to the training 


area,” she announced as she hopped away. “I want to 
watch Brokenpaw beat Deerpaw!” 

When she had finished tidying the herbs, Yellowfang 
padded into the clearing and spotted Nightpelt by the 
fresh-kill pile. “Do you know the apprentices were 
fighting with claws out?” she asked as she joined him. 

Nightpelt nodded, looking exhausted as usual. 

“You should stop them,’ Yellowfang warned. 
“Tanglepaw will be okay, but one day there could be a 
real accident.” 

“Oh, you should know better than to think that 
Brokenpaw would listen to me.” Nightpelt’s tone was 
full of unexpected bitterness. Then he flicked his ears 
as if he were chasing away a fly. “I’m sorry for being 
so tired and crabby,” he added, ending with a cough. 

‘TIl send Runningpaw out to find more honey for 
your throat. It must hurt from all the coughing,” 
Yellowfang mewed sympathetically. 

“Only two more moons and I won’t have to worry 
about being a mentor anymore,” Nightpelt murmured. 
“T can’t wait.” 

“No cat could do his duty better,’ Yellowfang 
assured him, though privately she thought Nightpelt 


needed to have fewer duties to conserve his strength. 
And I was right that he’s the wrong mentor for 
Brokenpaw. If only Cedarstar had listened to me! 


A stabbing feeling in her belly woke Yellowfang. 
Careful not to disturb Runningpaw, asleep in his nest, 
she stumbled out into the clearing. Drawn-out groans 
were coming from Cedarstar’s den. Peering 
underneath the oak roots Yellowfang saw Cedarstar 
thrashing around in his bedding, his limbs contorted in 
agony. 

“Cedarstar, what’s wrong?” she whispered. 

There was no reply, just another groan. Yellowfang 
could tell that Cedarstar was not fully conscious. She 
slipped into the den and let herself feel his pain to guide 
her. She was running her paws over his belly when she 
became aware of another cat standing in the entrance 
to the den. She glanced over her shoulder to see 
Raggedpelt, his eyes gleaming in the starlight. 

“What’s going on? I heard groaning.” 

“Cedarstar is very sick,’ Yellowfang mewed. “I’m 
not sure I can help him.” 

Raggedstar nodded. “I know you’ll do your best,” he 
told her, for once not sounding hostile. 


Cedarstar arched his back in a fresh spasm of 
agony. His eyes blinked, then focused on Raggedpelt. 
“My last life!” he gasped. “StarClan is calling me. 
Raggedpelt, lead my Clan well.” His body contorted 
again and he struggled for breath. 

Yellowfang watched his heaving chest, knowing that 
there was nothing she or any other medicine cat could 
do now. Cedarstar fought on for a few heartbeats that 
felt like many seasons; then he went limp, falling back 
into the moss. Life faded from his eyes. 

Yellowfang crouched beside him, reeling with 
sadness. She had loved the calm, wise leader, and 
trusted him to care for her Clan. She’d had no idea he 
was so close to losing his ninth life; there had been no 
lingering sickness, no injury that became infected, not 
even a frailty that she would associate with elders. 
Whatever had killed him had taken him swiftly, with 
little suffering. Perhaps that was what they should be 
most grateful for. 

Raggedpelt bent his head to pay homage to his dead 
leader, then straightened up. “I must summon the 
Clan,” he told her. “Will we go to the Moonstone 
tonight so I can claim my nine lives?” 


Yellowfang stared at him in surprise. Cedarstar ’s 
body is still warm! “If ... if you wish,” she 
stammered. 

“I do wish,” Raggedpelt declared. “But first let me 
tell the Clan.” 

Yellowfang followed him out of the den. Raggedpelt 
Jumped onto the Clanrock and raised his voice in a 
yowl. “Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey 
join here beneath the Clanrock for a meeting!” 

The ShadowClan cats stumbled sleepily from their 
dens, gathering around the Clanrock in bewildered 
silence. Raggedpelt waited until they had all appeared. 

“Cedarstar has lost his ninth life,’ he announced. 
“Now he walks in StarClan, a great warrior among the 
lights of our ancestors.” 

There was a stunned pause. 

Brokenpaw broke the silence. “Raggedstar! 
Raggedstar!” 

No other cats joined in. Raggedpelt looked very 
proud for a moment, then lowered his head to gaze at 
his son. “Don’t call me by that name yet,” he warned. 
“I cannot claim it until I’ve been to the Moonstone to 
receive my nine lives from StarClan.” Glancing at 


Yellowfang, he added, “TIl go there at once, while the 
rest of you sit vigil over Cedarstar.” 

Deerleap and Crowtail entered the Clan leader’s 
den and dragged his body into the clearing. Yellowfang 
watched as the cats lined up to pay their respects. 

Russetfur’s gaze was deeply sad as she bent her 
head over Cedarstar’s body. “Thank you, Cedarstar,” 
she whispered, “for giving me a chance to become a 
watrior.” 

Boulder padded up beside her and gave her ear a 
comforting lick. “And me also, Cedarstar,’ he added. 
“Your generosity transformed our lives, and we will 
never forget you.” 

Raggedpelt was already waiting at the entrance to 
the camp. As soon as Yellowfang joined him, he 
bounded out, his powerful muscles pumping until he 
was racing over the ground. Yellowfang struggled to 
keep up. Her belly was churning with nervousness at 
being alone with Raggedpelt again after so long. But 
he said nothing about what had happened in the past. 

Instead, as she ran alongside him, he meowed, “I 
have waited a long time for this. I will make 
ShadowClan stronger than it has ever been!” 


Yellowfang didn’t have enough breath to reply. 

They crossed WindClan territory without meeting 
any WindClan warriors, and reached Highstones as a 
milky line of dawn appeared on the horizon. There'll 
be just enough moonlight left to hit the Moonstone. 

Without pausing to catch their breath, she and 
Raggedpelt plunged into the darkness of Mothermouth. 
The tabby warrior was so eager that Yellowfang was 
left behind. By the time she reached the cavern, 
Raggedpelt was sitting on the ground, gazing in awe at 
the glimmering crystal. “Now it’s my turn,’ he 
whispered. 

“Lie down with your nose touching the stone,” 
Yellowfang instructed him, gesturing with her tail. 
“Close your eyes, and StarClan will call you to them. 
And remember,” she added, “you may not speak to 
any cat of what happens to you now. Except to me, if 
there’s something you need to discuss.” 

Raggedpelt gave her a brief nod and stretched out 
his nose to touch the Moonstone. Yellowfang settled 
down beside him. The cold of the stone seeped into her 
bones. Heartbeats later she opened her eyes and found 
herself in the marshy space where she had met 


Silverflame. Now it was shrouded in mist, through 
which she could hear the piping of birds and the soft 
lapping of water. 

Raggedpelt was standing beside her. The mist began 
to clear, and cats appeared all around Raggedpelt, nine 
of them, with Cedarstar at their head. Yellowfang 
recognized Lizardfang and Sagewhisker, but the others 
were unknown to her, although she had spotted them in 
the distance in StarClan on previous visits. 

As the cats of StarClan gathered around 
Raggedpelt, Yellowfang heard her name being called. 
“Yellowfang! Yellowfang, over here!” 

She scrambled up to a clump of pine trees on a 
rocky bluff overlooking the marsh. To her horror, 
Molepelt was waiting for her there. 

“The time has nearly come!” he hissed. “Darkness 
lies ahead! Beware the cat with blood on his paws!” 

Yellowfang let anger surge through her, driving 
away her fear. “Go away!” she snapped. “If you can’t 
give me more detail, what use is this prophecy?” 

Molepelt leaned closer. “The truth lies in your 
heart,” he hissed. “You cannot be blind to it for much 
longer.” 


Yellowfang bunched her muscles and sprang at the 
black cat as if he were a piece of prey. But her paws 
thumped to the ground, her claws digging into earth 
instead of into Molepelt’s body. A swirl of mist blinded 
her eyes, and when it cleared again he was gone. 

Turning back, Yellowfang saw the circle of StarClan 
warriors still surrounding Raggedpelt. As she padded 
across the marsh to join them, she saw the last of the 
nine cats step forward to speak to the new 
ShadowClan leader. This was a graceful she-cat with 
creamy brown fur who carried herself with the 
authority of a leader. 

“My name is Dawnstar,” she meowed, her brilliant 
green gaze resting on Raggedpelt. “I was leader of 
ShadowClan many seasons ago. I give you a life for 
putting ShadowClan above all others. There are four 
Clans in the forest, but ShadowClan will always be the 
greatest.” 

She touched her nose to Raggedpelt’s; he flinched 
and staggered a little, as if the pain of receiving his 
nine lives was becoming too much to bear. 

As Dawnstar stepped back into the circle of cats, all 
the StarClan warriors threw back their heads and let 


out a howl of triumph that echoed across the marshes 
and rose to the glittering stars. 

“Raggedstar! Raggedstar!” 

Yellowfang jerked awake, shaking with cold. 
Raggedstar was awake too, pacing across the cavern 
with powerful strides. “I have nine lives!” he declared 
in the pale light of dawn that seeped down from the 
hole in the roof. “I am Raggedstar, leader of 
ShadowClan!” 


When Raggedstar and Yellowfang returned to the 
camp, Yellowfang’s first duty was to go with the elders 
as they carried the body of their former leader out for 
burial. She looked up at the stars as she spoke the 
ritual words, wondering which of them was Cedarstar, 
and whether he was looking down on them now. 

“May StarClan light your path,’ she meowed, and 
added in a whisper, “Burn bright, dear friend, and 
watch over your Clan.” 

By the time she and the elders returned, dusk was 
falling. Raggedstar was standing on the Clanrock, with 
the rest of the Clan gathered around. 

Runningpaw rushed over to  “Yellowfang. 
“Raggedstar is going to appomt the new deputy!” he 


mewed. 

Raggedstar’s gaze traveled over his Clan. “I say 
these words before StarClan,” he announced, “that the 
spirits of our ancestors may hear and approve my 
choice.” Once again his gaze swept around the 
clearing, and Yellowfang wondered if he was 
deliberately trying to draw out the tension. “Foxheart,” 
Raggedstar meowed at last, “will you do me the honor 
of being my deputy?” 

Foxheart dipped her head, her eyes shining. “I will, 
Raggedstar.” 

Murmurs rose up from the crowd of cats, not all of 
them approving. “I knew there was something going 
on between those two!” Brightflower exclaimed. 

“Great StarClan, she’ll be insufferable now 
Amberleaf muttered. 

“Foxheart! Foxheart!” The murmuring was drowned 
out as the Clan obediently called out Foxheart’s name, 
and Raggedstar bowed his head. 

I'd have picked any other cat, Yellowfang thought 
as she joined in the yowling. But it wasn t up to me. I 
will just have to put up with it. 

As the noise died down, Yellowfang heard Deerpaw 


1? 


meow to Brokenpaw, “Wow, your father is the leader 
of the Clan!” 

“Yeah,” Brokenpaw chirped. “I bet he wishes I was 
a warrior already so I could be his deputy!” 

“I don’t think so,” Tanglepaw retorted crushingly. 

As Brokenpaw bristled, Fernshade brushed his 
shoulder with the tip of her tail. “It won’t be long,” she 
meowed, “if you keep practicing the way you are.” 

Yellowfang was distracted by Runningpaw giving 
her a nudge. “Littlebird says she has a pain in her 
head,” he reported, angling his ears to where the elder 
stood. “Should I give her something to help her sleep?” 

“PI do it,’ Yellowfang replied. “Come to my den, 
Littlebird.” 

Once there, she got the poppy seeds out of the store 
and carefully divided one in half. “That should be 
enough,” she warned as Littlebird licked it up. “These 
seeds can be very strong.” 

Littlebird sighed. “My dreams are so troubled lately, 
I don’t want to close my eyes.” 

Yellowfang pressed her muzzle into the old cat’s 
shoulder. “Then I will ask StarClan to send you 
peaceful dreams.” Is Littlebird dreaming of blood 


and fire? Oh, StarClan, if you have any omens to 
share, send them to me! Dont make my Clanmates 
frightened to sleep! 


Yellowfang was clearing a pile of dead leaves from 
the entrance to her den when she heard Raggedstar 
yowling a summons to the Clan, and looked up to see 
him standing on the Clanrock, his fur ruffled by the 
cold wind. Almost two moons had passed since 
Cedarstar’s death, and Raggedstar had won approval 
from his Clanmates by allowing them to continue as 
they had always done, patrolling and training and 
guarding their borders with the protectiveness of a 
mother over her kits. 

Calling to Runningpaw, who was busy counting 
Juniper berries inside the den, Yellowfang headed into 
the clearing. Brightflower and Brackenfoot emerged 
from the warriors’ den, closely followed by Amberleaf, 
Blizzardwing, and Frogtail. Russetfur and Boulder 
hurried in together through the brambles, giving 
Yellowfang a friendly nod as they sat down close to 
her. The other apprentices and their mentors bounded 
across from the fresh-kill pile. The elders appeared at 
the entrance to their den. 


Raggedstar gazed down at them. “I am proud of my 
Clan,” he began. “You are all I could have hoped for 
as a leader. With warriors like these, I could fight any 
battle! And there will be a new warrior today. 
Brokenpaw, step forward.” 

A gasp rose from the Clan as Brokenpaw bounded 
forward to stand at the base of the Clanrock. 
Yellowfang shared her Clanmates’ astonishment. He 5 
only been an apprentice for five moons! 

“Raggedstar,” Nightpelt meowed, stepping forward, 
“Brokenpaw hasn’t completed his final assessments 
yet.” 

Brokenpaw shot a furious look at his mentor, while 
Raggedstar flicked his tail dismissively. “I know a cat 
who is ready to be a warrior when I see one,” he 
declared. Leaping down from the Clanrock, he faced 
Brokenpaw. “I, Raggedstar,” he continued, “call upon 
my warrior ancestors to look down on this apprentice. 
He has trained hard to understand the ways of your 
noble code, and I commend him to you as a warrior in 
his turn. Brokenpaw, do you promise to uphold the 
warrior code, and to protect and defend this Clan, even 
at the cost of your own life?” 


Brokenpaw puffed out his chest importantly as he 
replied, “T do.” 

“Then by the powers of StarClan,” his father went 
on, “I give you your warrior name. Brokenpaw, from 
this moment you will be known as Brokentail—but let 
no cat see this as a sign of weakness. You are one of 
the strongest cats I have ever known, and I look 
forward to fighting alongside you! StarClan honors 
your courage and your fighting skills, and we welcome 
you as a full warrior of ShadowClan.” He rested his 
muzzle on Brokentail’s head, and Brokentail licked his 
shoulder. 

“Brokentail! Brokentail!” ShadowClan acclaimed 
the new warrior, but Yellowfang could see that some 
of the cats were less than happy. Though the warriors 
yowled his name with approval, his fellow apprentices 
were staring at one another with a mixture of dismay 
and anger. Yellowfang was close enough to hear 
Deerpaw mutter, “This is so unfair! Just because his 
father is Clan leader!” 

“This would never have happened in my day,” 
Archeye commented from where he sat in front of the 
elders’ den. “What’s next? Kit warriors?” 


Brokentail stood in the center of the clearing, lapping 
up his Clan’s yowls of welcome. As Yellowfang looked 
at him more closely, a thrill of horror passed through 
her. His legs were stained with blood, the brown fur 
dark and wet. The air stirred beside her and a voice 
whispered, “Beware the cat with blood on his 
paws....” 

Yellowfang whirled around, looking for Molepelt, but 
she saw only her Clanmates, still watching the new 
warrior. Pushing her way through the crowd, she 
reached Brokentail’s side. “Are you okay?” she 
whispered. “Is that blood on your fur?” 

Brokentail looked surprised. “No, it’s water. I got 
wet when I was chasing a lizard in the marshes, that’s 
all.” 

Relief surged through Yellowfang. Now that she 
was close enough to smell his fur, she realized that it 
was just peaty water turning his legs dark. 

Everythings fine. And stay away from me, 
Molepelt, with your stupid prophecies! 

She stepped back as other cats padded up to 
congratulate her son. 

“You’re welcome on my patrols anytime,” Blackfoot 


meowed. 

“And mine,” Nutwhisker added. “And can you show 
me that tricky claw-and-leap battle move? I saw you 
can do it, but I haven’t got it quite right.” 

“Sure.” Brokentail dipped his head, his eyes 
gleaming with pleasure. 

Boulder loped up and gave him a friendly cuff on the 
shoulder. “I’m looking forward to chasing foxes with 
you,” he told Brokentail. 

The new warrior gave Boulder a return cuff that 
sent him staggering. “We’ll shred them,” he agreed. 

Then Foxheart shouldered her way through the 
crowd. “Congratulations, Brokentail,’ she meowed 
graciously. “ShadowClan needs keen young warriors 
like you.” 

Does she think shes Clan leader already? 
Yellowfang wondered, bristling at the deputy’s superior 
tones. 

She realized that Raggedstar was standing beside 
her. “My son will go far,’ he murmured in her ear. “He 
is everything I ever hoped for.” He looked at 
Yellowfang with a challenge in his eyes, as if he was 
daring her to say that Brokentail was her son too. 


I wont play that game. I know I have given up 
any Claim to him that I once had. 

Politely Yellowfang dipped her head to the cat who 
had once meant everything to her. “I’m sure he has a 
bright future in the Clan,” she meowed. 





CHAPTER 31 
w& 


a 

Yellowfang shivered beneath her thick pelt. Leaf- 
bare had descended on the forest and the clearing was 
covered in snow. Her paws sank deeply into it; her 
pads felt as if they were about to fall off, they were so 
cold. Flicking a bit of leaf from behind her ear, 
Yellowfang knew that she needed to give herself a 
good grooming. But there never seems to be time.... 

Now she headed for Raggedstar’s den, ducking 
beneath the oak roots out of the worst of the snow. To 
her dismay she saw that Foxheart was there, her head 
bent close to the leader’s as they talked together. 

It was Foxheart who noticed Yellowfang first. 
“What do you want?” 

Yellowfang refused to let the Clan deputy’s 
rudeness get to her. “I need to speak to Raggedstar.” 

“Can’t you see he’s busy?” Foxheart snapped. 
“Come back later.” 

Yellowfang merely waited, her gaze fixed on 
Raggedstar. 

“No, you can speak now.” The Clan leader’s voice 


had an impatient edge. “What is it?” 

“T don’t think Nightpelt can continue with his warrior 
duties,” Yellowfang told him. “His cough is getting 
much worse, and he’s too tired and weak for patrols.” 

Foxheart’s eyes widened. “Are you saying you can’t 
cure him? Aren’t you supposed to be the medicine 
cat?” 

‘Tve tried everything,” Yellowfang hissed through 
gritted teeth. “Some cats have coughs that don’t go 
away. I think it has something to do with his breathing. 
If he doesn’t give up his duties, he’ ll just get sicker and 
sicker.” 

“We need all our warriors!” Foxheart protested. 

Raggedstar stretched out his tail and laid it on 
Foxheart’s shoulder. “Send Nightpelt to me,’ he 
ordered Yellowfang. “If it’s what he wants, then I 
won’t force him to continue with warrior duties. But 
it’s his decision, Yellowfang!” 

Returning to her den, Yellowfang found Boulder 
waiting for her. “What can I do for you?” she asked. 

Boulder stretched out one forepaw. “I’ve got a thorn 
in it,’ he announced cheerfully. “I tried to get it out 
myself, but I can’t shift it.” 


“Well, that’s what your medicine cat is for,” 
Yellowfang responded. “Let’s have a look.” 

The thorn had been pushed a long way into 
Boulder’s pad, and it took a lot of licking before 
Yellowfang could catch it in her teeth. 

“I was on patrol with Brokentail,’ Boulder meowed 
as she worked. “Great StarClan, he’s a good warrior! 
We should all try to be like him.” 

Yellowfang, vigorously licking, tried not to react to 
this praise of her son. 

“T was just a bit too keen on chasing a blackbird,” 
Boulder went on. “To tell you the truth, I think I was 
trying to impress Brokentail. The bird went into a 
thornbush, and I was fool enough to go after it.” 

“Did you catch it?” Yellowfang meowed. 

“Yes—ow!” Boulder let out a yelp as the thorn 
came free. 

“Then you weren’t a fool. Give your paw a good 
lick,” Yellowfang instructed him, “and come back if the 
paw swells or if it continues to hurt.” 

“Thanks, Yellowfang.” Boulder ran his tongue over 
his pad a few times, then rose to his paws. “I’d better 
get back on patrol.” He dashed off. 


Runningpaw, who had been tidying the herb stores 
at the back of the den, turned to look at his mentor. “I 
wouldn’t want to live in a Clan full of Brokentails,” he 
remarked. “He’s too ... fierce!” He went back to his 
herbs, then stopped, looking thoughtful, with a borage 
leaf in one paw. “I wonder who Brokentail’s mother is. 
Do you have any ideas, Yellowfang? Was she a 
kittypet, like some cats say? Or was it Foxheart all 
along?” 

“I don’t have time for idle gossip,’ Yellowfang 
snorted. “Why are you standing there like an uneaten 
bit of fresh-kill instead of sorting the comfrey from the 
foxgloves?” 

Runningpaw sniffed as he gave her an injured look, 
but yowls from the clearing outside interrupted any 
reply he was about to make. Looking out between the 
boulders, Yellowfang saw cats bursting through the 
thorns, and recognized Lizardstripe’s border patrol. A 
single glance told her that some of the cats had been 
badly scratched. 

“Bring cobweb and marigold,’ she ordered 
Runningpaw, then bounded to meet the wounded cats 
in the center of the clearing. 


33 


Raggedstar and Foxheart emerged from the leader’s 
den and raced to join the others. “What happened?” 
Raggedstar demanded. 

“Rats attacked us near the Carrionplace,” 
Lizardstripe panted. Her fur was bristling and blood 
dripped from a scratch on her belly. 

“And we weren’t even hunting them!” Wolfstep 
added indignantly. 

While Lizardstripe described in more detail what had 
happened, Yellowfang and Runningpaw started to treat 
the wounds. Wolfstep had a torn ear, but it had already 
stopped bleeding; Yellowfang licked it clean, then gave 
him a marigold leaf to rub on it. 

“Look at this bite,’ Runningpaw mewed, beckoning 
Yellowfang over to Tangleburr. “I think it might get 
infected.” 

Yellowfang nodded as she examined the bite on 
Tangleburr’s shoulder. “That’s always a risk with rat 
bites. Tangleburr, wait for me in my den, and PI find 
you some burdock root.” 

“Thanks, Yellowfang.” The young she-cat limped 
off. 

Yellowfang padded over to Lizardstripe. “I need to 


see that scratch on your belly,” she told her. 

Lizardstripe flicked her tail. “Not now. Can’t you 
see I’m talking to Raggedstar?” 

Suit yourself, Yellowfang thought. Bleed all over 
the camp. See if I care. 

While she was checking Brackenfoot and 
Fernshade, more cats appeared at the entrance to the 
camp. Yellowfang looked up to see Brokentail and his 
hunting patrol, laden with prey. 

Brokentail, carrying a huge pigeon, padded up to the 
group in the middle of the clearing. “What’s going on?” 
he asked, dropping the dead bird. 

“Rats attacked us near the Carrionplace,” 
Fernshade told him, while Wolfstep exclaimed, “Great 
catch, Brokentail!”’ 

“Yeah, I climbed a tree to get it,’ Brokentail mewed 
casually, then turned to Raggedstar. “How long are we 
going to put up with these rats?” he demanded with a 
lash of his tail. “We need to teach them a lesson!” 

“What do you suggest?” Raggedstar prompted. 

Yellowfang remembered the doomed attack on 
Carrionplace seasons before, when Cedarstar had lost 
a life. Please, StarClan, not that again! 


“We can’t fight all the rats,’ Brokentail told 
Raggedstar. “We don’t know how many there are. 
Instead, we should single out a few of them and kill 
them in view of the others, as a warning.” 

Yellowfang heard a few doubtful murmurs from the 
cats surrounding Brokentail, but others were nodding in 
agreement. 

“Tt might be worth a try,” Fernshade murmured. 

“Right,” Foxheart meowed. “We tried ambushing 
them with a mass attack, and it didn’t work. Perhaps 
this is the only way.” 

Raggedstar looked thoughtful, then straightened up. 
“Brokentail, come with me to my den. We’ll discuss 
this in more detail.” He led the way across the camp 
with Brokentail padding at his shoulder. Foxheart 
followed them. 

Yellowfang sent Runningpaw back to the den to 
prepare a burdock root poultice for Tangleburr. 
Meanwhile she managed to persuade Lizardstripe to 
let her look at the scratch. By now it had stopped 
bleeding. Relieved that she didn’t have to do more, 
Yellowfang gave Lizardstripe some marigold and sent 
her to rest in the warriors’ den. 


Tangleburr was just leaving when Yellowfang got 
back to her den, the burdock root poultice securely in 
place. “Let me have another look at that tomorrow,” 
Yellowfang told her. 

Tangleburr thanked her and went off with a wave of 
her tail. 

“That poultice was a neat bit of work,’ Yellowfang 
told Runningpaw. “Now we need to sort out some 
herbs for this battle with the rats.” 

Runningpaw gulped. “You mean we’ll be in the 
battle?” 

“No, but we’ll be nearby. If there are injuries, we 
can treat them on the spot. Get out more marigold, and 
some chervil, and we’d better have burdock root too.” 

“I heard about the last battle with the rats,” 
Runningpaw mewed as he began uncovering the herb 
stores. He gave Yellowfang a look in which excitement 
mingled with nervousness. “What do you think will 
happen this time?” 

“I don’t know,” Yellowfang responded grimly, “but 
I’m not happy about our chances. There are just too 
many rats.” Padding over to the thornbush to unhook 
some cobwebs, she realized that their stocks were low. 


‘I’m going out to get some more of this,’ she told 
Runningpaw. “Make leaf wraps of those herbs so we 
can carry them easily.” 

Once out of the camp, Yellowfang headed for a 
nearby oak tree that was covered with ivy, a perfect 
place for gathering cobwebs. As she stretched up to 
reach them, a voice spoke behind her. 

“Do you need any help with that?” 

Yellowfang turned to see Nightpelt. He began 
clawing cobwebs down and collecting them in a ball at 
the foot of the tree. “This is for the rat battle, right?” 
he mewed. 

Yellowfang nodded. 

“You know I won’t be taking part?” Nightpelt went 
on quietly. “I’ve decided to join the elders.” 

Yellowfang stopped gathering cobwebs to gaze at 
him, sadness welling up inside her. “I’m so sorry that I 
was never able to cure you,” she mewed. 

Nightpelt started to speak, broke off to cough, then 
continued, “It’s not your fault. I know you tried. I just 
wish StarClan would tell me why they made this my 
destiny!” He let out a long sigh. “I wanted to be a 
great warrior!” 


“And you are,” Yellowfang assured him. “But your 
Clan needs you to be safe and well more than they 
need your hunting skills. You can still be part of the life 
of the Clan. Try telling Littlebird she’s less important 
than she used to be!” 

Nightpelt nodded, but Yellowfang could see that she 
hadn’t managed to chase the depression from his eyes. 


Dawn was breaking as the ShadowClan cats 
gathered around Raggedstar in the center of the 
clearing. Gray clouds covered the sky and a thin sleet 
was falling. Yellowfang shivered as she and 
Runningpaw joined the back of the crowd. 

“This is the plan,’ Raggedstar meowed, raising his 
voice so that all the Clan could hear. “Two cats—that’s 
Foxheart and me—will draw the rats out by pretending 
to hunt at the edge of Carrionplace. Brokentail, 
Cloudpelt, Blackfoot, and Finchflight will lie in wait to 
jump out and circle the first few rats to appear. 
Brokentail will give the signal. Brackenfoot, 
Newtspeck, Clawface, Fernshade, and Scorchwind, 
you will hold back any other rats so they can watch 
while we kill their denmates.” His gaze swept around 
the warriors. “Any questions?” 


No cat responded. Brokentail’s eyes were gleaming. 

“Then let’s go!” Raggedstar yowled. 

Yellowfang and Runningpaw picked up their supplies 
and followed the patrol as the Clan leader led the way 
out of camp. Yellowfang spotted Nightpelt watching 
them with the other elders outside their den. You’re 
better off out of this, she thought, though she 
understood how disappointed the young cat must feel, 
seeing his Clanmates go off to battle without him. 

As the Carrionplace loomed into sight, Yellowfang 
flinched at the familiar stink and the shrieks of the 
white birds that flapped over the heaps of Twoleg 
garbage. She began to brace herself to block out the 
pain of the wounds that would inevitably come. J am 
whole and well, I have no injuries, I feel no pain. 

She led Runningpaw to the same holly bush where 
she and Sagewhisker had sheltered during the previous 
battle, though her belly felt cold at the memories it 
conjured up. As she set her herbs down beneath the 
branches, Yellowfang noticed that part of the silver 
mesh had fallen down, so it was easy for the cats to 
get into the Carrionplace. And the rats can get out to 
where Brokentail is waiting. 


Brackenfoot led his part of the patrol in among the 
rotting piles, where they swiftly disappeared. 
Meanwhile Brokentail directed the cats under his 
command into hiding places among the trees and 
bushes. Raggedstar and Foxheart were left alone in 
front of the gap in the silver mesh, at the edge of the 
closest pile of waste. 

“They’re really brave!” Runningpaw commented. 

Yellowfang murmured agreement as she watched 
the two cats go through the motions of hunting: tasting 
the air, sniffing around the roots of trees, crouching to 
creep up on tangles of bramble or clumps of fern. She 
kept watching, her heart pounding, as a rat poked its 
head out, then edged its way into the open. It was soon 
joined by another, then a third, then more. They crept 
forward, almost as far as the silver mesh. Their 
glittering gaze was fixed on the cats who were 
apparently too stupid to notice them. 

But Raggedstar and Foxheart clearly knew they 
were there. Skillfully they moved farther away, 
tempting the rats away from the safety of the heaps. 
Once they were well clear of the silver mesh, 
Brokentail, Cloudpelt, Blizzardwing, and Finchflight 


leaped out of their hiding places. Raggedstar and 
Foxheart sprang forward, until the rats were 
surrounded. 

“Prepare to die!” Brokentail snarled. 





CHAPTER 32 
w& 


“ 
A rustle of rat noise came from the heaps of waste, 
but Brackenfoot and his patrol sprang out of hiding and 
guarded the holes. Yellowfang could see twitching 
noses and the gleam of malignant eyes, but for the 
moment at least none of the rats dared emerge. 

‘Don’t let them out!” Brackenfoot yowled. “But 
keep far enough back so they can watch what 
happens!” 

“Flea-pelts!” Brokentail taunted the captured rats, 
springing forward to score his claws down the flank of 
the nearest, then darting out again. “Crow-food 
eaters!” 

The rest of the patrol copied him, driving the rats 
together into a tight knot and wounding them while 
staying out of reach of their claws. Yellowfang dug her 
claws into the ground. “Get on with it, before 
something goes wrong!” she muttered. 

A heartbeat later, two rats, terrified and desperate, 
sprang out of the huddle and leaped upon Foxheart. 
Yellowfang stared in disbelief at how precise their 


movements were, like trained hunters. Foxheart let out 
a screech and crumpled to the ground, blood gushing 
from her neck. 

“No!” Raggedstar yowled. 

In the same instant, Brokentail and Cloudpelt leaped 
on the two rats who had attacked Foxheart, breaking 
their necks and tossing them into the air. Raggedstar 
hurled himself into the center of the knot of rats, his 
Clanmates only a heartbeat behind, their claws slashing 
and tearing. The orderly plan broke up into a chaos of 
shrieks and blood. 

“Great StarClan!” Runningpaw whispered. 

Even Yellowfang was awed as she watched the 
slaughter, the rats struggling to escape only to be 
clawed back. They hurled themselves on the warriors, 
who met their onslaught with teeth that ripped into 
them and left the rats twitching as their blood soaked 
into the snow. 

Within moments it was over. The last of the rats that 
had been tempted out were dead and the ShadowClan 
warriors stood over them, panting. Apart from 
Foxheart, who lay ominously still, none of them seemed 
to have serious injuries. Raggedstar called Brackenfoot 


and the others out of the Carrionplace, while 
Brokentail worked himself underneath Foxheart’s body 
and draped her over his shoulders. He was covered in 
blood but as far as Yellowfang could see, it all 
belonged to the rats. 

“We won,” Runningpaw mewed, sounding stunned. 

“Yes,” Yellowfang agreed grimly, gazing at 
Foxheart’s body. But we paid a high price. I didnt 
like her. I didnt want to serve under her as leader. 
But she was too young to die. 


The elders and the few cats who had remained in 
the camp gathered around as the warriors returned. 
Yellowfang spotted Rowanberry looking in horror from 
the entrance to the nursery as Brokentail laid 
Foxheart’s body in the middle of the clearing. A flash 
of joy warmed Yellowfang at the sight of her sister’s 
kits, Cinderkit and Stumpykit, peering out curiously 
beside their mother. 

Warriors die, but the Clan survives. 

Foxheart’s mother, Poolcloud, dashed out of the 
warriors’ den and flung herself to the ground beside 
her daughter. “StarClan, no!” she wailed. “Why did 
you have to take her?” 


Wolfstep followed his mother out and crouched 
beside her, pushing his nose into his sister’s blood- 
soaked fur. “Good-bye,” he rasped. “We were so 
proud of you. You would have made a great leader.” 

Cloudpelt, who shared a father with Wolfstep and 
Foxheart, padded over to her and bowed his head. 
“She died like a warrior,” he meowed. 

Yellowfang took her place beside Foxheart’s head. 
“We will keep vigil for her,” she announced. 

Raggedstar stayed for a short time beside the body 
of his deputy, then vanished into his den, reappearing 
as the moon rose above the trees. Leaping onto the 
Clanrock he summoned the Clan, though most of them 
were already in the clearing, clustered around 
Foxheart. 

“T grieve for Foxheart,” the Clan leader began. “She 
served us well, and should have continued to do so for 
many seasons to come. But she died bravely, 
protecting her Clan from rats. She will have a place of 
honor in StarClan.” He paused, looking down at his 
Clan, and Yellowfang could feel the tension mounting, 
for every cat knew that this was the moment when 
Raggedstar must announce the name of his new 


deputy. Several of the cats glanced at Brokentail, who 
was looking particularly alert, his eyes gleaming. 

“However much we miss Foxheart,’ Raggedstar 
went on, “the Clan needs a new deputy. I say these 
words in the presence of her body, that her spirit may 
hear and approve my choice. Cloudpelt will be the new 
deputy of ShadowClan.” 

Both Cloudpelt and Brokentail looked equally 
astonished. Yellowfang could see bitter disappointment 
in Brokentail’s eyes, and he bared his teeth in a snarl. 

“Wow!” Runningpaw whispered. “I guess we all 
know who was hoping to be deputy!” 

Cloudpelt rose to his paws and stammered, “Th- 
thank you, Raggedstar. I promise I will serve my Clan 
well.” 

Raggedstar jumped down from the Clanrock while 
the rest of the Clan raised their voices in yowls of 
welcome to Cloudpelt. Yellowfang could see that he 
was a popular choice. She was pleased with the 
decision, too; she knew that Cloudpelt would make a 
far better leader than Foxheart, if she had lived. 

Then Yellowfang spotted Brokentail cornering 
Raggedstar as the Clan leader tried to return to his 


den. I need to hear what they're saying! 
Unobtrusively she eased her way over to them, halting 
in the shadow of the Clanrock. 

“I should have been made deputy!” Brokentail 
growled. “The rat attack was my idea, and it worked!” 

Raggedstar gazed at him with slitted eyes. “Use 
your brain,” he snapped. “I’m your father, and I have 
to be careful not to show favoritism in front of the 
other warriors. Besides, you need an apprentice before 
you can be deputy. But don’t worry. I’ve many 
seasons left in me, and if anything should happen to 
Cloudpelt, it will be your turn next.” 


The thaw came and gradually newleaf crept through 
the forest. Pushing her way through a fresh growth of 
fern, Yellowfang reveled in the feelmg of the sun on 
her thick pelt, and the sight of green shoots springing 
up everywhere in the frost-burned forest. Nightpelt, 
who had accompanied her, jumped up to swipe at a 
butterfly that was fluttering above the grass. 
Yellowfang watched him fondly as he chased it, 
reflecting that his cough was much better now that he 
wasn’t trying to keep up with all the warrior duties. 

“Are you a kit?” she teased him as he came panting 


back to her. 

“Not anymore,” Nightpelt replied with a mrrow of 
amusement. “I guess I’m just enjoying the sunshine.” 
He took a deep breath with jaws parted. “And all the 
prey-scent. I’m sure there’s a mouse around here 
somewhere.” He began to follow the scent trail and 
disappeared into a thick stretch of ferns. Moments 
later Yellowfang heard a gasp, and then his voice was 
raised in a startled yelp. 

“Yellowfang, come here!” 

Yellowfang pushed her way through the ferns. 
When she emerged on the other side, she found herself 
gazing at a small hawthorn tree. One of the newest 
apprentices, Stumpypaw, Rowanberry’s kit, was 
hanging from the lowest branch by his teeth. 

“Stumpypaw!” Yellowfang exclaimed. “What in the 
name of StarClan are you doing?” 

When Stumpypaw opened his mouth to reply, he 
crashed to the ground in a tangle of legs and tail. “Now 
I’m going to be in big trouble!” he wailed as he picked 
himself up. “Brokentail told me I had to stay there until 
he came back!” 

“What?” Yellowfang exchanged an incredulous look 


with Nightpelt. “No mentor would do that! You must 
have misunderstood.” 

Stumpypaw hung his head. “I was chattering during 
battle training, so Brokentail said I needed to learn how 
to keep my jaws shut.” 

“There must be a better way than this!” Yellowfang 
meowed to Nightpelt. Stumpypaw could have 
permanently injured his jaw! 

‘Not if I say so.” Yellowfang spun around at the 
growled words behind her and found herself facing 
Brokentail. “Don’t interfere with my business, 
medicine cat,” he warned her. 

Yellowfang blinked at the savagery in his yellow 
eyes. “It is my business,” she insisted, trying to stay 
calm. “Harsh treatment like that could injure an 
apprentice.” 

“Nonsense!” Brokentail snarled. Jerking his head at 
Stumpypaw, he added, “Get back to the training area.” 

Stumpypaw dashed off, and Brokentail followed 
with a last glare at Yellowfang. “Keep out of it!” he 
ordered. 

“I never punished him like that when he was my 
apprentice,” Nightpelt commented when Brokentail 


had disappeared. 

A pang of fear shook Yellowfang. “Maybe you 
should have,” she muttered. 

When she returned to the camp, Yellowfang spotted 
the other apprentice, Cinderpaw, tucking into the fresh- 
kill pile with his mentor, Nutwhisker. When Stumpypaw 
started making his way over to join them, Brokentail 
stood in front of him, blocking him. 

“You can eat when you’ve caught enough prey to 
feed the elders,” he snapped. 

Stumpypaw just nodded unhappily and trailed off 
toward the camp entrance. Yellowfang thought he 
looked tired out. Thats not fair! Anger smoldering 
inside her, she went looking for Cloudpelt. 

The Clan deputy was sitting in a patch of sunlight 
near the warriors’ den with Amberleaf and Finchflight, 
discussing the best places to hunt. 

“Cloudpelt, may I talk to you in private?” 
Yellowfang asked as she padded up. 

“Sure.” Cloudpelt rose to his paws and drew her 
away a couple of fox-lengths so no cat could overhear 
them. “What is it?” 

Yellowfang mustered her courage, knowing that not 


even a medicine cat should question the way a mentor 
chose to deal with his apprentice. “It’s Brokentail,” she 
began. “I’m not happy about his mentoring. Have you 
seen how he is with Stumpypaw?” 

She could see from the flicker in Cloudpelt’s eyes 
that he knew what she was talking about. “All mentors 
train in different ways,” he meowed. “It’s not my place 
to interfere.” 

“But some cat has to do something,” Yellowfang 
insisted. “You can’t imagine what I saw earlier 
today....” She told Cloudpelt the story of Stumpypaw 
hanging from the tree branch. 

“Was Stumpypaw injured at all?” Cloudpelt asked. 

“No,” Yellowfang admitted. “But he could have 
been!” 

“In that case, I can’t get involved—and I wouldn’t 
want to,’ Cloudpelt told her. “Look, Yellowfang, I 
understand your concern for every member of the 
Clan, but it’s been a long time since you were a 
warrior. Perhaps you’ve forgotten how tough it can be 
for apprentices!” 

There was nothing more that Yellowfang could say. 
Dipping her head coldly to the deputy, she turned and 


stalked back to her own den. 

“Look, I brought you a vole,’ Runningpaw 
announced as she slipped between the boulders. “It’s 
really fresh.” 

“Thanks, Runningpaw.” Yellowfang flopped down 
beside the fresh-kill and took a bite. 

“Nightpelt said you had an argument with 
Brokentail,’ Runningpaw chirped. He sniffed and then 
continued, “If you don’t mind me saying so, you ought 
to be careful what you say to that cat. He’s bad 
news.” 

Yellowfang blinked at him, grateful for his concern. 
“You know,” she mewed, “it’s time you stopped being 
my apprentice.” 

For a heartbeat Runningpaw looked horrified, until 
he understood what she was really saying. “You mean 
I can become a full medicine cat? Wow!” 

“You more than deserve it,” Yellowfang told him. “I 
am lucky to have had you as my apprentice.” 

“And I’m lucky to have had you as a mentor.” 

Yellowfang snorted with amusement. “Even if I 
haven’t taught you how to cure your sniff yet!” 


Yellowfang and Runningpaw, with the other 


medicine cats, sat in the dark cave of the Moonstone 
as they waited for the moon to shine through the hole 
in the roof. 

“ÉI have sad news,” Featherwhisker reported. 
“Goosefeather has gone to join StarClan.” 

“T’m sorry,” Brambleberry meowed, with her ready 
sympathy. “How do you feel, being ThunderClan’s only 
medicine cat?” 

Relieved he doesnt have to cope with 
Goosefeather muttering on, Yellowfang thought, 
though she would never have dreamed of saying that 
out loud. 

“I’m coping,” Featherwhisker replied. “There’s a 
very promising new arrival called Spottedkit. She’s 
already taking an interest in my herbs, so if StarClan 
approves I’ Il make her my apprentice.” 

“I have some good news, too,” Yellowfang put in. 
“Tonight I’m going to make Runningpaw a full 
medicine cat.” 

All the other medicine cats chimed in with their 
congratulations. In the faint starshine, Yellowfang 
could see that Runningpaw looked happily 
embarrassed. 


“Youre so lucky!” Barkpaw purred. 

“Tt will be your turn soon,” Runningpaw told him. 

As he spoke the moon floated into sight, and the 
Moonstone woke into life, its icy radiance filling the 
cavern. Yellowfang rose to her paws and beckoned to 
Runningpaw to join her beside the shining stone. He 
was shivering with excitement as he padded up to her. 

Yellowfang took a breath, remembering the words 
from her own ceremony. “T, Yellowfang, medicine cat 
of ShadowClan, call upon my warrior ancestors to look 
down on this apprentice. He has tramed hard to 
understand the way of a medicine cat, and with your 
help he will serve his Clan for many moons. 
Runningpaw,” she meowed, “do you promise to uphold 
the ways of a medicine cat, to stand apart from rivalry 
between Clan and Clan, and to protect all cats equally, 
even at the cost of your life?” 

“I do,” Runningpaw replied in an awed whisper. 

“Then by the powers of StarClan I give you your 
true name as a medicine cat. Runningpaw, from this 
moment you will be known as Runningnose. Your 
name will be a reminder that medicine cats cannot 
cure everythng—but we always need to have faith 


enough to try. StarClan honors your intelligence and 
your dedication. Now come, touch your muzzle to the 
Moonstone, and may all your dreams be good ones.” 

Runningnose crept forward and rested his nose 
against the shining surface. Yellowfang crouched down 
beside him and the rest of the medicine cats took their 
places. 

When Yellowfang closed her eyes she was 
immediately swept out into a place of darkness and 
cold. She could feel her paws standing on rock, but she 
couldn’t see anything. Then jagged flashes of scarlet 
broke up the darkness, and high-pitched shrieking 
battered at her ears. The shapes of kits appeared 
before Yellowfang’s eyes, but these were not the 
warm, furry bundles of her Clan’s nursery. Instead, 
their tiny bodies were ripped from their mothers’ bellies 
in fountains of blood, while the mother cats clutched at 
them helplessly. 

Yellowfang rushed to and fro trying to save the kits 
from the unseen claws that were tearing them away. 
But her pads slipped on the blood, the stench of it filling 
her nose and throat. However hard she struggled, the 
dying kits were always just out of reach of her 


stretching paws. 

“No! No!” she yowled. 

Something hard pressed into her side. Yellowfang 
opened her eyes to see Runningnose poking her with 
one paw. His eyes were wide and scared. 

“I—I’m sorry,” he stammered. “But you were 
crying out. I hope I didn’t do the wrong thing by 
waking you?” 

“No ... no, I’m fine,” Yellowfang rasped, tottering to 
her paws. The light from the moon had gone, and the 
cave was illuminated by the faint sheen of stars. In the 
faint glimmer she could see the other medicine cats 
watching her anxiously. “I’m fine,” she repeated. “It 
was just a bad dream.” 

“It was more than that,’ Runningnose insisted. 
“Yellowfang—” 

“Enough!” Yellowfang snapped. “We only share our 
dreams with our leader. They are not for idle gossip!” 

Whirling around, she stomped up the passage ahead 
of the others. 





CHAPTER 33 
w& 


“ 
Yellowfang crossed the clearing toward the nursery. 
A chilly breeze ruffled her fur, warning her that 
greenleaf was almost at an end. Soon the leaves would 
fall from the trees and another leaf-bare would set in. 

At least these kits will be big and strong before 
then, she thought. 

She was on her way to check on Featherstorm’s 
new litter, Molekit, Dawnkit, and Volekit. They had 
been born two sunrises before, so they hadn’t yet 
opened their eyes. As she entered the nursery she 
gazed with satisfaction at the three little wriggling 
bodies snuggling up to their mother’s belly. At least 
these kits arent the ones I saw in that terrible 
dream at the Moonstone. 

Featherstorm raised her head to greet Yellowfang. 
“T’m glad you’ve come,” she meowed, looking proudly 
down at her kits. “I want you to listen to their chests 
and check their ears for mites.” 

“Of course.” 

Yellowfang was pretty sure that there was nothing 


to worry about, but she knew that an older queen like 
Featherstorm was bound to be concerned. Besides, 
she enjoyed spending time with the little squirming 
creatures, who approached her boldly and sniffed with 
eager curiosity at her, even though they couldn’t see. 

While she was examining the kits, their father, 
Blizzardwing, popped his head through the entrance. 
“Everything okay?” he called. “Can I do anything?” 

“We’re all fine,’ Featherstorm responded with a 
flick of her tail. “You can fetch me a piece of fresh-kill 
—something nice and tasty, please. Toms!” she added 
to Yellowfang when Blizzardwing had disappeared. 
“T’ve never found them to be much use around kits.” 

Hal wouldnt have been, thats for sure, 
Yellowfang thought, picturing Featherstorm’s long-ago 
mate from the Twolegplace. He wanted nothing to 
do with his kits. 

She was heading back across the clearing when the 
sound of crashing branches broke out in the entrance 
tunnel. Yellowfang spun around to see Brokentail 
rushing in with half a rabbit in his jaws. 

“Raggedstar! Raggedstar!” he yowled, dropping the 
rabbit in the middle of the clearing. 


The Clan leader appeared from his den, while 
several other cats rushed up and gathered around 
Brokentail and the fresh-kill. The elders peered out of 
their den, and Runningnose came bounding out of the 
medicine cats’ den to join Yellowfang. 

“What’s going on?” he panted. 

“I don’t know,” Yellowfang replied, padding closer 
with Runningnose at her side. “Brokentail just came 
back with that fresh-kill.” 

“T found this dead rabbit near the tunnel that leads to 
WindClan territory,’ Brokentail announced, his eyes 
flashing with anger. “It proves that WindClan warriors 
have been killing prey inside ShadowClan’s borders!” 

Scorchwind stepped forward with Stumpytail and 
Cinderfur just behind him. “We patrolled that border 
earlier,’ he meowed, “and we didn’t find any trace of 
WindClan scent.” 

“The rabbit is still warm,’ Brokentail pointed out. 
“They must have just caught it! We need to attack at 
once!” 

“Wait a moment,” Raggedstar ordered. “We need to 
make sure the rabbit didn’t stagger over the border 
wounded before dying.” 


Brokentail let out a hiss of annoyance and thrust the 
tattered body in front of his leader. “Look! There are 
bitemarks in it! This was clearly an invasion!” He 
paused briefly and added, “If you’re too scared to 
challenge those prey-stealers, Pll lead the patrol 
myself!” 

Some of the other warriors nodded agreement, as if 
they were willing to go with him. Yellowfang noticed 
that Stumpytail and Flintfang were among them. 

“Hang on!” Raggedstar exclaimed as Brokentail 
turned as if he was about to head off. “Of course I am 
not afraid. But these things need planning. Brokentail, 
come with me and Cloudpelt.” 

When the three cats had gone, Yellowfang padded 
over and gave the rabbit a thorough sniff. She picked 
up some WindClan scent on its fur, but the bitemarks 
had a stronger scent of Brokentail. Yellowfang felt her 
neck fur begin to rise. Okay, so he carried it back to 
the camp, but could this be the shape of his teeth in 
the rabbits flesh? What if he caught the rabbit 
himself, after it strayed of its own accord under the 
Thunderpath? She began to shake. Should I tell 
Raggedstar? 


Just then, Brokentail and Cloudpelt bustled out of the 
leader’s den and started calling to warriors to join them 
beside the thorn tunnel. Seizing her chance, Yellowfang 
took a deep breath and slipped underneath the oak 
roots to see Raggedstar. 

“Are you sure that Brokentail is telling the truth?” 
she demanded boldly. “What if he caught the rabbit 
himself?” 

Raggedstar bristled. “No son of mine would lie! 
How dare you question him?” He bared his teeth in a 
snarl. “Now get out of my way.” 

Bruised by his fury, Yellowfang stepped aside, then 
followed him out of the den. She watched him race 
across the camp toward Brokentail, Cloudpelt, and the 
warriors they had gathered: Stumpytail, Flintfang, and 
Scorchwind. With a wave of his tail, Raggedstar 
hurtled through the tunnel with the patrol hard on his 
paws. 

Runningnose padded over to her with dismay in his 
eyes. “Are we going to follow with herbs?” 

Yellowfang shook her head. “This will just be a 
border skirmish. There won’t be any serious injuries.” 
But as she spoke her paws were itching to carry her 


after the patrol. The camp suddenly felt too small, as if 
the circle of brambles was closing in on her. 

I have to get out! 

‘Pm going to look for comfrey,’ she told 
Runningnose, heading for the tunnel. 

“But we have plenty!” he called after her, sounding 
bewildered. 

Yellowfang ignored him. Once out of the camp she 
raced toward the Thunderpath. Everything was silent. 
Perhaps the patrol will just set new border markers 
and leave, she thought hopefully. 

Panting, Yellowfang emerged from the trees close to 
the place where the tunnel led into WindClan territory. 
She couldn’t see Brokentail or his patrol, but her heart 
sank when she sniffed around the entrance to the 
tunnel and scented ShadowClan warriors heading 
through it. Yellowfang padded forward, her pelt 
brushing the tunnel walls. For a few paw steps, light 
from the opening lit her path, but soon that faded, 
leaving her in the dark. She jumped, her belly lurching, 
as a roar sounded from overhead, echoing around the 
tunnel until she thought her ears would burst. 

Its only a monster, she told herself. Why are you 


so jumpy? One of those huge things would never 
get down here. 

Gradually the end of the tunnel appeared, a bright 
circle in the dimness. Yellowfang’s ears rang from the 
noise of monsters as she clambered out. Dreadful 
shrieks rose into the air from somewhere up ahead. 
Oh, no! Cats are fighting! 

She broke into a run, scrambling up a short, steep 
slope covered with tough moorland grass, and clawed 
her way across a sandy overhang. Reaching the top, 
she looked down into a narrow valley with a stream 
running along the bottom. The ShadowClan patrol was 
grappling with WindClan cats. Yellowfang recognized 
Talltail and a small, russet-furred tom called Redclaw. 
The others were strangers to her. 

“Trespassers!” Talltail growled as he launched 
himself at Brokentail. “Get off our territory!” 

“Prey-stealers!” Brokentail retorted, raking his 
claws down Talltail’s side. 

“Stop!” Yellowfang screeched, but no cat heard her. 

For a heartbeat she wanted to hurl herself into the 
battle and help her Clanmates, but she stopped herself. 
I am a medicine cat. I must keep apart from Clan 


rivalries. 

She watched, horrified, as Raggedstar and Redclaw 
tussled together in a shrieking ball of fur, battering at 
each other with their strong hind paws as both cats 
strove to break free. Cloudpelt jumped on top of 
another WindClan warrior, lashing at his ears until the 
blood ran freely. Then he sprang off and flung himself 
at Talltail, who had pinned Brokentail down and was 
clawing at his face. Scorchwind had fallen beneath the 
paws of a tabby tom, who was trying to sink his teeth 
into the ShadowClan warrior’s throat. 

Yellowfang’s heart began to pound harder as she 
realized that her Clanmates were being beaten back 
toward the tunnel. Even though the patrol was made 
up of ShadowClan’s best fighters, they were no match 
for WindClan’s fury. 

Raggedstar broke away from his battle with 
Redclaw and staggered to his paws. “Retreat!” he 
yowled. 

Brokentail snarled with rage, in spite of the blood 
running down his face, but Raggedstar gathered the 
patrol together and they gradually fought their way 
back toward the tunnel, still harried by the WindClan 


cats. Yellowfang gasped as a stabbing pain shot 
through her throat. She scanned her Clanmates and 
saw Cloudpelt stumble to the ground. His thick white 
fur was turning red. 

As she rushed forward to support Cloudpelt, she 
heard Raggedstar hiss, “What are you doing here?” 

Yellowfang ignored the question. “We have to get 
Cloudpelt back to camp!” she gasped. 

To her relief, they were only a few fox-lengths 
away from the tunnel mouth, and the WindClan cats, 
satisfied with their victory, drew back at last. 

“Don’t set paw on our territory again!” Talltail 
yowled after them. 

Yellowfang helped Cloudpelt through the tunnel, 
stumbling through the darkness with the roar of 
monsters all around them. The Clan deputy scarcely 
seemed conscious, and she had to take all his weight. 
At the other end of the tunnel Scorchwind came to 
Cloudpelt’s other side to prop him up, and the patrol 
struggled back to the camp. 

“Cobwebs! Quickly!” Yellowfang snapped at 
Runningnose as she dragged Cloudpelt into her den. 
She remembered how she had battled to save his life 


before, when the rogues leaped out at him. Z 
succeeded then. I will succeed now. “StarClan, wait 
your turn!” she hissed aloud. 

The other members of the patrol crowded in after 
them, but Yellowfang only had eyes for the white 
warrior, who had collapsed onto the ground. 

“Get a juniper berry,” she ordered as Runningnose 
brought her a thick pad of cobweb. “Crush it and see if 
you can get the juice into him.” She pressed the 
cobweb to the gash in Cloudpelt’s throat, but his blood 
soaked through almost at once. Runningnose dropped 
another pad beside her before fetching the juniper 
berry. 

“I need marigold and thyme!” Yellowfang ordered, 
pressing the fresh cobweb to Cloudpelt’s wound. 

As she worked she was vaguely aware of dismayed 
wails coming from the clearing, as the rest of the Clan 
heard about the patroľs defeat. Meanwhile 
Runningnose dealt with the injuries of the rest of the 
patrol; none of them were serious. 

“Get off me!” Brokentail snapped when 
Runningnose tried to help him clean up the scratches 
on his face. “I don’t need a stupid medicine cat pawing 


over me.” 

Runningnose shrugged. “Suit yourself,’ he muttered. 
He watched Brokentail stride out of the den, then 
turned to examine the claw marks on Scorchwind’s 
flank. 

This is all my fault, Yellowfang thought as she 
listened to Cloudpelt’s wavering breath. J should have 
forced Raggedstar to listen to me about that rabbit. 
WindClan had fought this fiercely because they had 
been falsely accused. 

The rest of the patrol left the den after Runningnose 
had finished treating them. Yellowfang looked up to 
see that daylight was already fading; she had lost all 
track of time. “You’d better get some sleep,” she told 
Runningnose. ‘TIl call you if I need anything.” 

Runningnose nodded, glancing anxiously down at 
Cloudpelt, then curled up in his nest and closed his 
eyes. 

The night dragged on. Yellowfang never moved 
from Cloudpelt’s side, listening to his shallow breathing 
and watching the ooze of blood that still trickled from 
his neck. She wasn’t sure how long she had been 
sitting there when the young warrior’s eyelids fluttered 


and he opened his eyes. 

“Yellowfang?” he murmured feebly. 

‘Tm here.” Yellowfang rested a paw reassuringly 
on Cloudpelt’s shoulder. “I won’t leave you.” She 
reached for a ball of wet moss and held it so that 
Cloudpelt could lap at it. 

“That’s good ...” Cloudpelt sighed out the words. 
“Am I going to StarClan?” 

“Not if I can help it,’ Yellowfang muttered grimly. 

Cloudpelt twitched his whiskers. “Maybe I'll see 
you there ...” His voice faded and his eyes closed 
again. 

Her heart clenched with grief, Yellowfang stayed by 
his side. Gradually she became aware that another cat 
was standing beside her. She looked up to see 
Brokentail. 

“Have you come to have your wounds treated?” she 
asked. 

“No,” Brokentail sneered. “I’ve come to tell you not 
to waste your efforts with Cloudpelt. His time is over. 
He would never have been able to lead ShadowClan.” 
He drew himself up, his eyes gleaming in the darkness. 
“There is only one cat who can do that after 


Raggedstar. I will be the next leader of ShadowClan.” 

“How can you say that?” Yellowfang gasped. “I am 
a medicine cat, and I will always do everything I can to 
save my Clanmates!” 

Brokentail did not respond, just looked down at 
Cloudpelt with eyes that glittered with hostility. Then 
without another word, he stalked out of the den. 

Brokentail lied about the rabbit, I’m sure of it. 
And now Cloudpelt is terribly injured. Yellowfang 
remembered what Raggedstar had said to his son 
when he made Cloudpelt deputy. Dont worry. I’ve 
many seasons left in me, and if anything should 
happen to Cloudpelt, it will be your turn next. She 
forced her darkest fears away. Even if Brokentail had 
deliberately caught the rabbit to start a battle with 
WindClan, he couldn’t have known how badly 
Cloudpelt would be hurt. Brokentail is ambitious, but 
thats a good thing for a warrior. I can still be 
proud of him. 

Throughout the night Yellowfang tried every herb, 
every trace of knowledge she possessed, to help 
Cloudpelt, but as the sun slid into the den through the 
branches overhead, the white warrior’s faint breathing 


grew more ragged, then sank into silence. His tail-tip 
twitched once, and then was still. 

He has gone to hunt with StarClan. Yellowfang 
bent over the deputy’s body, grief-stricken and scared 
deep inside. Things are going terribly wrong. 

As she crouched over Cloudpelt’s body, she heard a 
rustling from Runningnose’s nest. His voice came from 
behind her, blurred with sleep. “How is Cloudpelt?” 

“He’s dead,” Yellowfang choked out. 

“No!” Runningnose got up and came to stand beside 
her, scraps of moss still clinging to his pelt. “Do you 
want me to break the news to Raggedstar?” 

Yellowfang shook her head. “No. Thank you, but I 
have to do that myself.” She stumbled into the clearing 
and padded over to Raggedstar’s den. Creeping under 
the oak roots, she saw the Clan leader curled in his 
nest. “Wake up!” she meowed. 

Raggedstar lifted his head, then scrambled up when 
he saw Yellowfang. “What news?” 

“The worst,” Yellowfang admitted. “Cloudpelt walks 
with StarClan now.” 

Raggedstar bowed his head. “He died the death of 
the noblest warrior.” 


“But it was a battle that should never have been 
fought!” Yellowfang flashed back at him. 

“Do not say that!” Raggedstar roared. “You 
dishonor Cloudpelt’s memory if that’s what you truly 
believe!” 

“I would never do that,’ Yellowfang assured him, 
forcing herself to meet her leader’s gaze steadily. “But 
I think Brokentail looked for this battle. Cloudpelt died 
unnecessarily.” 

Raggedstar narrowed his eyes. “What exactly are 
you saying?” 

Yellowfang flinched. “I don’t think you should make 
Brokentail deputy in his place.” 

“I will not listen to this!” Raggedstar snarled. His 
amber gaze, alight with anger, rested on her like a 
flame. “You are my medicine cat, Yellowfang, and 
your loyalty should only be to me and my warriors. 
Never question me again!” 


The moon was rising above the trees. In the 
clearing, the ShadowClan cats kept vigil for Cloudpelt. 
Yellowfang sat near his head. She remembered the 
eager apprentice he had been, looking forward to 
having a mate and kits. 


I’m so sorry that will never happen. But you were 
a fine deputy for your Clan, and you died with a 
warrior 8 courage. 

Movement alerted Yellowfang, and she looked up to 
see Raggedstar leaping up onto the Clanrock. 

“Cats of ShadowClan!” he began. “We have lost 
Cloudpelt, and we grieve for him. But the life of the 
Clan must continue. It is time to appoint a new 
deputy.” He paused, but this time there was no sense 
of anticipation among the Clan. Every cat knew who 
the Cloudpelt’s successor would be. 

“I say these words before the body of Cloudpelt, 
and in the presence of the spirits of my ancestors, that 
they may hear and approve my choice,” Raggedstar 
announced. “Brokentail will be the new deputy of 
ShadowClan.” He raised his tail for silence before the 
Clan could break into the usual cheers. “True, 
Brokentail is still younger than most of you, but 
ShadowClan has never had a braver or more skillful 
warrior. He is an example to us all, and it will be a 
great honor to lead the Clan with him.” 

Yowls rose up to welcome Brokentail. The warrior 
stood in the center of the clearing with his head held 


high and his eyes gleaming like two yellow moons. 
Yellowfang thought back to the time when he had been 
a friendless kit because no cat knew who his mother 
was. She had felt sorry for him then, and terribly guilty 
for abandoning her only son. But so much had 
happened since then, all of it overshadowed by 
Molepelt’s strange warning of blood and fire. However 
hard she tried, Yellowfang couldn’t feel pride in the 
warrior that stood before her now. Only fear and a 
deep sense of dread for the future. 

He has come so far since he was a motherless 
kit. How much further will he go? 





CHAPTER 34 
w& 


“ 
The sound of cats crashing through the brambles 
woke Yellowfang. She sat up in her nest. The night 
was Starless, pitch-black, and a brisk leaf-fall wind 
scoured across the camp. Are we being attacked? 

Then the sound of familiar voices drifted into the 
medicine cats’ den. Yellowfang let the fur on her neck 
lie down. Its only a night patrol returning. 

A moon before, shortly after he became deputy, 
Brokentail had decided that the Clan should start 
patrolling the borders at night. “Other Clans might 
attack us under cover of darkness,” he had stated. 
“But they’ll discover that ShadowClan is ready for 
them.” 

Runningnose stirred in his nest beside Yellowfang. 
“These night patrols are a waste of time,’ he 
complained. “We’re no more at risk of attack than the 
other Clans, because they’re all sleeping like we are.” 

“Fox dung! StarClan-cursed thorns!” A voice 
sounded a couple of tail-lengths away. 

“At least we should be sleeping,’ Runningnose 


added dryly. 


There was a rustle of movement as a cat slipped 
between the boulders into the den; Yellowfang 
recognized Frogtail by his scent. “What is it?” she 
called. 

“I wrenched my shoulder jumping down from a tree 
trunk while I was on patrol,” Frogtail explained. “You 
can’t see your paw in front of your face on a night like 
this.” 

Yellowfang sighed. “Come over here.” 

She did her best to examine Frogtail’s shoulder in 
the dark. She could feel heat in his muscles and she let 
down her defenses, allowing herself to feel his pain 
briefly so that she could judge how bad it was. “You'll 
live,” she grunted. 

“Do I need herbs?” Frogtail meowed. “Poppy seeds 
to sleep?” 

“No, your pain isn’t that bad,” Yellowfang told him. 
Brokentail’s new schedule of extra patrols and training 
had meant more injuries than usual and stocks of herbs 
were low. “You’ll be fine if you just rest.” 

“Are you sure?” Frogtail sounded disappointed. “I 
can’t afford to miss any training, or Brokentail will put 


me back on apprentice duties.” 

ShadowClan had no apprentices at the moment: 
Featherstorm’s litter, Mosskit, Volekit, and Dawnkit, 
were still too young, and Newtspeck had only recently 
given birth to Wetkit, Littlekit, and Brownkit. Until 
more kits could be apprenticed, the warriors were 
taking turns performing the duties. 

“That’s not necessarily a bad thing,’ Yellowfang 
suggested. “Apprentice duties will be easier on your 
shoulder than training and patrolling.” 

“I guess,” Frogtail muttered. “Thanks anyway, 
Yellowfang,” he added as he padded out of the den. 

Runningnose had already curled up again, but when 
Yellowfang returned to her nest, sleep eluded her. As 
soon as the sky began to grow pale with dawn, she 
made her way into the clearing. The ground was cold 
beneath her paws and in the dim light she could see a 
white rim of frost on every leaf and twig. Leaf-bare is 
almost upon us. 

From the nursery she could hear the joyful 
squeaking of kits, and she pictured six warm, furry 
bodies squirming among the moss and pine needles. 
Yellowfang glowed with warmth as she imagined them 


growing big and strong over the next moons. But her 
hope was tinged with worry. Our ranks are swelling; 
it might become hard to feed us all. She wondered if 
she should pay the nursery a visit, then decided there 
was no need. Featherstorm is an experienced 
queen, and Newtspeck has really good mothering 
instincts. 

A cough sounded behind Yellowfang. Startled, she 
turned to see that Nightpelt had emerged from the 
elders’ den. He was looking strained; his cough always 
troubled him more when the cold weather started to 
set in. 

“I thought I’d go for a walk,” Yellowfang meowed. 
“Do you want to come?” 

The black tom nodded and fell in beside her. The 
two cats slipped through the brambles, past 
Mousewing on guard, and padded into the trees. 
Yellowfang heaved a contented sigh as she gazed 
around at the territory, caught like crystal in the silver 
dawn. The trees and bushes were white with frost and 
every puddle was rimmed with ice that glittered in the 
growing light. 

I’m so glad this is my home. 


“I trained here once with Flintpaw and Clawpaw,” 
Nightpelt mewed as they reached a thicket of dense 
bushes. “Flintpaw ran into a bees’ nest in that tree over 
there—I’ve never heard a cat yowl so loud!” 

“T remember,” Yellowfang responded; she had used 

up most of her stocks of dock leaves treating the 
young cat’s stings. “He was very brave about the 
pain.” 
Nightpelt nodded. “He’d only just healed when he 
convinced us to go fishing in the stream near the big 
ash tree. We all came back soaking wet, and we didn’t 
catch a thing.” 

“And Stonetooth told you to leave fishing to 
RiverClan,” Yellowfang recalled. “You and your 
denmates were always causing trouble!” She padded 
on a few paw steps, then asked, “Do you mind not 
being a warrior anymore?” 

Nightpelt paused before replying. “I am still a 
warrior inside,’ he mewed at last. “I have the same 
spirit, the same loyalty to my Clan. I hope that one day 
I will find new ways to prove this, besides warrior 
duties.” 

‘T’m sure you'll never stop finding ways to prove 


your love for ShadowClan,” Yellowfang told him, 
touching him lightly on the shoulder with her tail-tip. 

As they headed back toward the camp, they met a 
patrol on their way out. Stumpytail and Tangleburr 
were bounding in the lead, closely followed by 
Rowanberry, Blackfoot, and Deerfoot. Brokentail 
brought up the rear. 

“Are you going hunting?” Yellowfang called. 

“No, this is battle training,” Stumpytail announced, 
his whiskers quivering with excitement. “Brokentail 
has asked us to be dogs, and chase our Clanmates 
through the forest.” 

Yellowfang blinked. “Doesn’t the Clan need feeding 
first?” 

Deerfoot flicked his tail. “They can wait. It’s not like 
we'll be long.” 

Yellowfang and Nightpelt watched the patrol as it 
charged off through the trees. 

‘Tm going to climb a tree!” Stumpytail meowed. 
“Then I'll jump down on the dogs and shred them!” 

“But we'll be too fast for you,’ Tangleburr 
countered. “So you can stay up your tree until you 
freeze!” 


“Brokentail has really inspired them,’ Nightpelt 
commented as he and Yellowfang went on toward the 
camp. “The next cats to trespass on our territory won’t 
spend long on the wrong side of the border.” 

Yellowfang nodded. “The Clan is certainly strong at 
the moment.” She sensed they were both being careful 
about what they said. Brokentails methods can 
sometimes be harsh, I’m sure Nightpelt would agree 
with me on that. The silence hung heavily between 
them as they pushed through the brambles into the 
camp. 

As soon as they emerged into the clearing, 
Featherstorm came dashing toward them from the 
nursery. “Oh, Yellowfang, thank StarClan you’re 
back!” she exclaimed. “Volekit has started coughing.” 

‘TIl come and look at him right away,” Yellowfang 
mewed. 

She could hear the kit’s persistent cough as she slid 
through the entrance to the nursery. Volekit was 
squatting in his bedding, a miserable bundle of fur, his 
tiny body shaken by coughs. His two littermates looked 
on with wide, anxious eyes. 

Yellowfang placed a paw on his chest and felt 


feverish heat striking through her pads. “How long has 
he been like this?” she asked Featherstorm. 

“It came on in the night,” the she-cat replied. “How 
bad is it, Yellowfang? Is it whitecough?” 

“I don’t think so,” Yellowfang meowed. “T’ll bring 
him a tansy leaf. That should do the trick.” Stroking 
the tiny tom’s brown pelt, she added, “You'll feel better 
soon, little kit.” 

On her way out of the nursery she paused beside 
Newtspeck, whose young litter—their eyes not open 
yet—was huddled into the curve of her belly. “If I 
were you, I’d keep the little ones away from Volekit 
until his cough clears up,” she advised. 

Newtspeck nodded and curled her tail protectively 
around her kits. 

On her way back from delivering the tansy leaf, 
Yellowfang was hailed by Hollyflower from the 
entrance to the elders’ den. “Poolcloud’s joints are 
aching,” she announced when the medicine cat padded 
up. “Do you have anything for her?” 

Yellowfang nodded. ‘TIl bring her a poultice of daisy 
leaves,” she replied. “And a poppy seed to help her 
sleep.” 


But before she fetched the herbs, Yellowfang poked 
her head into the warriors’ den to make sure Frogtail 
was resting, and beckoned to Amberleaf, who was 
gatherng up soiled bedding. “Come with me,” 
Yellowfang ordered. “It’s time I renewed that dressing 
on your ear.” Amberleaf had torn her ear in a training 
exercise and the wound had been reluctant to heal. 

Amberleaf sighed as she rose to her paws. “Okay, 
Yellowfang. When can I return to warrior duties?” 

“When I’m satisfied that ear isn’t infected,” 
Yellowfang retorted. 

When she peeled off the wrapping of cobweb and 
goldenrod leaves, she was pleased to see that 
Amberleaf’s wound looked clean and healthy. “You 
don’t need another poultice,” she commented as she 
rubbed the scratch with marigold. “You can go back to 
your duties tomorrow provided it’s no worse.” 

“Great!” Amberleaf meowed. “T think if I have to 
take one more tick off the elders I’ll go mad as a fox in 
a fit.” 

Yellowfang sent her away and collected the daisy 
leaves and the poppy seed for Poolcloud. At the 
entrance to the elders’ den she met Runningnose, 


staggering under the weight of a huge bundle of 
dripping moss. 

“T don’t want the elders to get their paws wet by the 
stream,” he explained, mumbling around his burden. 
“Their bedding needs changing, too.” 

“Hasn’t Brokentail put any cat on apprentice 
duties?” Yellowfang asked. 

Runningnose shook his head. “No, they’re all out 
battle trainng. Except for Amberleaf, and she’s stuck 
doing the warriors’ bedding all on her own.” 

Yellowfang sighed. Runningnose shouldnt have to 
work so hard when hes no younger or less 
experienced than the other warriors. “Never mind,” 
she meowed. “PI help you with the elders’ nests as 
soon as I’ve taken care of Littlebird.” 

Once Littlebird was dosed and comfortable, 
Yellowfang went into the forest again, her pleasure in 
the bright day dimmed by her anxiety about using so 
many herbs. She was carrying a bundle of moss and 
feathers across the clearing when Raggedstar padded 
up to her. 

“Have you seen any hunting patrols?” he asked her. 

Yellowfang shook her head. “As far as I know, 


they’re battle training first.” 

The Clan leader’s amber eyes grew troubled. 
“There are hungry bellies in the Clan,’ he mewed. 
“Elders, kits, and warriors all need feeding.” 

You should talk to your deputy about that, not 
your medicine cat, Yellowfang thought. “Well, I have 
some traveling herbs that could take the edge off the 
worst hunger,” she suggested, “but I’m not sure I 
should use them up so soon before leaf-bare.” 

“I don’t want my Clanmates eating your herbs!” 
Raggedstar’s eyes widened in shock and anger. “They 
should have fresh-kill!” 

As he was speaking, movement by the entrance 
caught Yellowfang’s eye, and Brokentail plunged into 
the clearing. Blood spattered his muzzle and his eyes 
shone with triumph. 

“Excellent training session,” he announced, bounding 
up to Raggedstar and Yellowfang. “Rowanberry and 
Stumpytail cornered the dogs before they were 
halfway to the border!” 

The two dog-hunters had followed him into the 
camp, panting and exhausted but clearly very pleased 
with themselves. The other three warriors staggered 


into the camp; Yellowfang was shocked to see how 
bedraggled and battered they looked. Deerfoot was 
limping, Blackfoot’s shoulder was bleeding, and 
Tangleburr had a lump of fur missing from her side. 

They must have been the dogs, Yellowfang 
thought. They ve certainly had the worst of it. 

“Next time, you’ll run faster!” Brokentail told them. 
“Now, clean yourselves up and get back to the training 
area. I need you to practice your defense moves.” 

“They can rest first, I think,’ Raggedstar meowed. 

“And I ought to check those wounds,” Yellowfang 
added. 

Brokentail stared at Raggedstar. “Rest?” He 
sounded surprised. “We can’t stop a battle just 
because we get tired! I said they can clean themselves 
up; then we’ll continue.” 

“What about the hunting patrols?” Raggedstar 
prompted. 

“Don’t worry,” Brokentail assured him cheerfully. 
‘Tve sent some cats off to find fresh-kill. That’s if 
they haven’t scared all the prey into hiding!” 

Yellowfang gazed at Brokentail. You have so much 
ambition, so much drive to make your Clanmates as 


strong and fearless as you, she thought. I wonder 
where your spirit comes from. Is it partly from me? 


Yellowfang was putting away a fresh supply of dock 
leaves when Runningnose padded up behind her and 
touched her shoulder with his tail. 

“Have you forgotten it’s the half-moon? We should 
be on our way to the Moonstone.” 

Yellowfang blinked at him in confusion. “There’s so 
much to do here, it slipped my mind,” she confessed. 

Runningnose gave her shoulder a brief stroke. “PI 
stay behind and get on with the work, if you like,” he 
offered. “I don’t mind missing the meeting for once.” 

Yellowfang pushed her nose into his shoulder fur, 
grateful for his sensitivity. “I’m sure it will be routine,” 
she mewed. “I haven’t heard anything from the other 
medicine cats lately.” 

With a quick farewell, Yellowfang headed out of the 
camp and across the forest to the tunnel that led into 
WindClan territory. Emerging from the other end, she 
bounded over the tough moorland grass, suddenly 
anxious that she would be late and miss the moment 
when light poured down onto the Moonstone. She was 
relieved to spot Featherwhisker of ThunderClan and 


Brambleberry of RiverClan padding ahead of her, and 
picked up her pace to catch up to them. Brambleberry 
had a younger cat with her who was a stranger to 
Yellowfang. 

“This is Mudpaw, my new apprentice,’ she 
announced proudly when she had greeted Yellowfang. 

Yellowfang dipped her head to the young tom. 
“Welcome to the company of medicine cats.” 

“Thank you.” Mudpaw’s eyes shone. “I can’t 
believe I’m going to meet our ancestors!” 

“T should have an apprentice of my own next time,” 
Featherwhisker announced. “Spottedkit will be 
Spottedpaw by then. She’s always poking about my 
stores; I think she’s going to be a great medicine cat!” 

“T’m looking forward to meeting her,’ Brambleberry 
mewed. 

At the far side of the territory Hawkheart and his 
apprentice, Barkpaw, were waiting, and all the 
medicine cats traveled on together. They trekked 
through the farm, where a young black-and-white tom 
watched them from his perch on top of a wall. 
Yellowfang recognized him from her last visit to 
Highstones. He’d recently arrived there and was 


friendly enough to the passing Clan cats. 

“Hi, Barley,’ Hawkheart meowed. “Settling in 
okay?” 

Barley dipped his head. “Everything’s fine, thanks, 
Hawkheart. The old barn is crawling with mice! You 
can all stop and eat if you like.” 

“Thanks, but we don’t have time,” Featherwhisker 
told him. “Maybe on the way back.” 

The two apprentices were walking side by side. 
There was a bounce in Mudpaw’s step, as if his paws 
were itching to run flat out to the hills. 

“What’s it like, meeting a StarClan cat?” he asked 
Barkpaw. “What do you say to them?” 

“It’s different for every cat,’ Barkpaw told him. 
“But don’t worry. You'll be fine.” 

“And do you only meet with cats from your own 
Clan?” Mudpaw went on. “Yellowfang, do you only 
see ShadowClan cats?” 

Yellowfang shook her head, suppressing a shudder 
at the thought of some of the cats she had walked with 
in her dreams. “You might see more of your own Clan 
than others,” she replied to the eager young cat. “But 
not always. There’s no telling who you'll meet in 


StarClan.” 

Mudpaw’s eyes sparkled. “I can’t wait!” 

In the cavern of the Moonstone Yellowfang found it 
was a bit of a squeeze for all six cats to get into 
position. As she settled herself she was a bit 
disconcerted to see Featherwhisker deliberately 
wriggle between her and Hawkheart. 

Why does he want to be next to me? For once he 
hasnt been asking his annoying questions, so 
whats on his mind now? Does he think he’ll get to 
walk in my dreams? 

The long walk had tired Yellowfang, and she relaxed 
as she closed her eyes. But her relief was short-lived. 
Darkness swirled around her like black fog, torn apart 
by slashing claws and tumbling, shrieking bodies. 
Yellowfang was in the middle of a terrible battle, 
choking on air that was thick with blood and fury. But 
there was something different about these warriors... 
Yellowfang loomed over them, taller by more than a 
mouse-length. And their shrieks were high-pitched, as 
piercing as rat squeals. 

These were not warriors fighting, but kits! 

Yellowfang stared down at the tiny mewling things, 


some with their eyes still closed, but when their little 
paws struck they left gouges that spilled with blood, 
and their puny teeth sank deep into one another’s fur. 

Oh, StarClan, no! Yellowfang wailed silently. Why 
are you showing me this? 

She plunged into the battle, trying to stop the kits 
from tearing one another apart, but they ignored her 
and kept on ripping and biting. Blood flowed over the 
ground and rose up around Yellowfang’s legs and belly 
like a river, clinging to her pelt. 

A screech sounded behind her and she whipped 
around to see Molepelt, standing on a mound of earth 
above the battle and blood. 

“Fire and blood will destroy the Clans!” he yowled. 

Yellowfang tried to fight her way toward him but the 
tide of battlng kits swept her away. Blood gurgled in 
her throat and thick, choking darkness covered her. 

Yellowfang crouched, trembling in darkness and 
silence. She forced her eyes open, expecting to find 
herself back in the cavern of the Moonstone. Instead 
she was curled up in a starlit glade. A soft breeze 
whispered in the grass, and the air was filled with the 
scent of fresh green growth. Silverflame was licking 


her fur, as if Yellowfang were a kit once more, with 
her pelt ruffled from playing with her littermates. 

For a couple of heartbeats Yellowfang surrendered 
herself to Silverflame’s gentle care. Then she 
whispered, “The kits! They were fighting! Why?” 

Silverflame looked at her with eyes full of grief. 
“Terrible times are coming,’ she mewed. “I’m so 
sorry.” 

“Why are you sorry?” Yellowfang asked, springing 
to her paws. “Just tell me how I can change things!” 

Silverflame shook her head. “You can’t. The tide 
has turned already.” 

“But there must be something I can do!” Yellowfang 
protested. 

“Knowing something is going to happen does not 
give us the power to change it,” Silverflame mewed, so 
softly that Yellowfang could only just hear her. “Now, 
lie down and rest while you can. Your Clan needs you 
more than ever.” 

In spite of her desperate anxiety, Yellowfang let the 
she-cat’s steady lapping soothe her, and closed her 
eyes. After a little while, two tiny tongues joined in 
with Silverflame’s, and Yellowfang smelled the 


heartbreaking scent of her daughters. 

I must be strong for my Clan, she told herself. But 
StarClan, why do you make it so hard? 

A moment later Yellowfang felt a cat nudging her in 
the side. She opened her eyes to meet the curious gaze 
of Featherwhisker. The moonlight was gone, and dawn 
light trickled in through the gap in the roof of the cave. 

“Are you okay?” the ThunderClan medicine cat 
inquired. “What did you see?” 

The ghastly vision of battling kits flooded back into 
Yellowfang’s memory. Ignoring Featherwhisker’s 
question, she yelped, “I have to get back to the camp!” 

Leaving the other medicine cats behind, Yellowfang 
raced up the tunnel and hurled herself down the steep 
slope outside, her paws skidding and sliding on the 
pebbles. She ran all the way back to the ShadowClan 
camp and arrived, panting, at cold, crisp sunhigh. 

Bursting through the brambles, she headed toward 
Raggedstar’s den. He has to know what I saw! 

But before Yellowfang could reach the Clan 
leader’s den, he rushed out to meet her. “I must talk to 
you,” he meowed urgently. 

Raggedstar spun her around and thrust her back 


through the tunnel and into the trees, away from the 
camp. When they were beyond the hearing of their 
Clanmates, he halted and faced her. 

“I had a dream,” he told her, his voice shaking. “Kits 
fighting! Kiling one another, way beyond their 
strength! The ground ran with blood, and I could do 
nothing to stop them. Yellowfang, what does it mean?” 





CHAPTER 35 
w& 


“ 
Sheer horror choked Yellowfang’s words before she 
could speak. “I had the same dream,” she managed to 
whisper at last. 

Raggedstar stared at her in dismay. “Great StarClan, 
why would we both have this vision? I would never 
send kits into battle! It’s against the warrior code!” 

“T know you wouldn’t,” Yellowfang assured him. 

Just then, the sounds of battling cats drifted through 
the trees. A screech split the cold, bright air, followed 
by Brokentail’s voice, loud and hectoring. 

“No, Deerfoot, not like that! I’ve seen rabbits that 
could fight harder than you! And don’t snigger, 
Tangleburr. You’re just as feeble. Let me see that 
move again, and put some strength into it this time!” 

Yellowfang met Raggedstar’s gaze. The Clan leader 
opened his jaws to speak, only to break off when they 
heard another vicious growl from Brokentail. 

“You’re soft, all of you! Will you stop in the middle 
of a battle to lick your wounds? If you get hurt, you’ll 
learn more quickly how to avoid getting hit.” 


‘Tve made a terrible mistake, haven’t 1?” 
Raggedstar murmured. “Our son wants to do nothing 
but lead ShadowClan into battle. I should never have 
made him deputy! What can we do to stop him?” 

A flash of rage pulsed through Yellowfang. “He’s 
our son now, is he?” she snarled. “I have never been 
allowed to be his mother! You said you would only 
keep my secret if I never called him my son. What can 
I possibly do to change him? Brokentail is your 
problem, Raggedstar.” 

“But—” The Clan leader tried to interrupt. 

Yellowfang ignored him. “You have told me too 
many times that I am nothing more than a medicine 
cat. I heal my Clan, that’s all. You are responsible for 
what your warriors do.” 

Raggedstar blinked, shocked to silence. 

Yellowfang glared at him for a heartbeat, then spun 
around and stormed off. How dare he expect me to 
have any influence over Brokentail now? There 
was never anything I could do. 

As she returned to the camp, she tried to calm 
herself. She took deep breaths and forced her paws 
into a dignified walk. 


“Yellowfang!” Fernshade came rushing across to 
her from the warriors’ den. “You'll never guess—I’m 
going to have Wolfstep’s kits!” 

Yellowfang just looked at her. 

“I know I’m a bit old to be having my first litter,” 
Fernshade chattered on happily, “and with leaf-bare 
approaching, it isn’t the best time, but after all, the Clan 
needs young blood!” 

At the mention of young blood, Yellowfang froze, 
seeing again the scarlet tide that had risen around her 
from the battling kits. No! she wanted to screech 
aloud. Dont have these kits! They cant be born! 
Terrible things lie ahead! 

Instead she forced herself to mew, “That’s great. 
Come with me and PI give you some herbs to help 
with your strength.” 

Yellowfang was relieved to see Runningnose in their 
den, and she passed Fernshade’s care over to him. 

“Kits!” Runningnose exclaimed, his eyes gleaming 
with delight. “Fernshade, that’s wonderful. Lie down 
here and let me check how they’re doing.” 

Yellowfang watched as Runningnose ran his paws 
over Fernshade’s barely swollen belly, then leaned 


close to press his ear against the smooth curve. “Hi, 
little kits,’ he purred. “Can you hear me in there? 
Make sure you grow big and strong so you'll be good 
warriors for your Clan.” 

Fernshade let out a little mrrow of happiness. “I’m 
sure they’ll be fine, with both of you to look after 
them.” 

Yellowfang fetched burnet leaves, which were good 
for all expectant queens, and Fernshade swallowed 
them obediently. 

“Come back every day for more,’ Runningnose 
instructed, “and make sure you get enough to eat. 
Don’t be afraid of taking as much fresh-kill as you 
need. It’s important for your kits that you feed well.” 

Yellowfang was distracted by voices chattering 
outside the den. 

“T couldn’t believe what Raggedstar did!” That was 
Deerfoot, sounding shocked, though Yellowfang had a 
feeling that he was enjoying passing on gossip. 

“What happened?” Tangleburr prompted. 

“He interrupted our battle traming and tried to tell 
Brokentail how to run the session! He thought 
Brokentail was being too hard on us.” 


“Well, Raggedstar is Clan leader,’ Tangleburr 
pointed out. “He has the right to tell any cat what to 
do, even his deputy.” 

“He’s got no right to mess up Brokentail’s battle 
training!” Deerleap retorted hotly. “Brokentail is tough, 
sure, but he’s made me a better warrior already!” 

“So what did Brokentail say?” 

“He did what Raggedstar told him. He’s a loyal 
deputy. But I could tell he wasn’t happy ...” 

The young cats began to move off, and Yellowfang 
couldn’t hear any more of their conversation, but she 
felt a stir of concern in her belly. Will Brokentail start 
to defy his Clan leader when he knows that he has 
the support of the warriors? 

After Fernshade had left the den, Yellowfang 
tracked down Raggedstar near the fresh-kill pile. “Is 
everything okay?” she asked, bounding over to join 
him. 

“Fine,” Raggedstar replied. “I spoke to Brokentail 
and asked him to be a bit less fierce in traming.” 

And you trust him to do that? Yellowfang didn’t 
voice her doubts out loud. 

“In three moons, Featherstorm’s and then 


Newtspeck’s kits will be ready to be apprenticed,” 
Raggedstar went on, “but until then Brokentail needs to 
focus on keeping the Clan fed and fit through the cold 
season.” 

Yellowfang murmured agreement. “Fernshade is 
expecting kits,” she informed the Clan leader. 

Raggedstar’s eyes widened in delight. “That’s 
excellent news!” 

“But what about the dream we had?” Yellowfang 
whispered. “It must mean something terrible for the 
Clan.” 

“Kits are always a good thing,’ Raggedstar 
meowed; there was a hint of warning in his voice, as if 
he didn’t want to be contradicted. 

Yellowfang knew there was no pomt in persisting. 
Instead she dipped her head and slipped past him to the 
fresh-kill pile. 

What a miserable little heap! 

With hunting so badly neglected, there was hardly 
any prey worth eating. The best pieces were a vole 
and a starling, but Yellowfang spotted Archeye and 
Poolcloud padding up with gloomy expressions as they 
surveyed the scanty pile. The elders need to be fed, 


Yellowfang thought. /’// choose something else. 

She took a scrawny shrew, while Archeye and 
Poolcloud settled down with the vole and the starling. 
But before they could start to eat, Frogtail bounded up 
to the fresh-kill pile and shouldered the elders away. 

“I need this prey!” he announced. “I’m a warrior. I 
have to keep my strength up.” 

“What?” Poolcloud bristled. “Kits and elders eat 
first! That’s the warrior code.” 

“Let him have them,’ Archeye mewed wearily, 
patting the vole and starling across to Frogtail. “It’s not 
worth arguing.” 

Poolcloud still looked indignant. 

Frogtail was crouching down to take his first bite of 
vole when Brokentail strode across the clearing and 
fixed him with a stern look. “Frogtail, what are you 
doing?” he demanded. 

“Taking our food, the prey-stealer,’ Poolcloud 
grumbled. 

“What?” Brokentail’s eyes narrowed and his voice 
dropped to a soft snarl. “Frogtail, give the prey back 
right now. The warrior code tells us that kits and elders 
feed first.” 


“Told you!” Poolcloud mewed smugly. 

‘I’m shocked and disappointed in you, Frogtail,” 
Brokentail went on. “This isn’t the way a ShadowClan 
warrior behaves.” 

“But you said—” Frogtail protested. 

“T’m sure I never told you to steal food from those 
who need it more,” Brokentail interrupted, not giving 
Frogtail the chance to speak. 

“Brokentail is right.” Raggedstar, who had been 
listening, padded up to join the group. “Archeye, 
Poolcloud, eat your fill. Frogtail, you can take out a 
hunting patrol and see if you can restock the fresh-kill 
pile.” 

Frogtail sullenly rose to his paws with a glare at the 
elders, who crouched down and began to eat in swift 
bites, in case their leader changed his mind. 

Meanwhile, Brokentail glanced around the camp, 
signaling to nearby warriors with a sweep of his tail. 
“Brackenfoot, Stumpytail, Blackfoot, you need to join 
Frogtail on a hunting patrol.” 

The Clan leader and his deputy stood side by side as 
the patrol left the camp. Yellowfang saw that 
Raggedstar’s eyes gleamed with approval and 


satisfaction. 
He and Brokentail seem to be in agreement for 
now, she thought uneasily. But how long will it last? 


Yellowfang shifted in her nest, blinking up at the 
warriors of StarClan above her head. She felt 
exhausted, but her growling belly wouldn’t let her 
sleep. Frogtail’s patrol had brought back only a meager 
collection of prey, and she had ended up sharing a 
skinny blackbird with Runningnose. 

“Honestly, Yellowfang!” Runningnose’s voice came 
from his own nest. “They can probably hear your belly 
rumbling in ThunderClan! Why don’t you go and catch 
yourself something? The night patrol went out a while 
ago, so make sure they don’t think you’re an intruder 
and flay your fur.” 

“I might just do that.” Yellowfang heaved herself 
stiffly out of her nest and headed into the clearing. 
Instead of leaving the camp, she padded over to the 
fresh-kill pile and began nosing around the area for 
scraps. 

She was gulping down a morsel of mouse when she 
heard a noise from the entrance tunnel: a cat’s voice 
raised in a wail of unbearable anguish. Every hair on 


Yellowfang’s pelt rose. Whipping around, she saw 
Brokentail burst into the camp. His fur was bushed out 
and his eyes were wild and distraught. 

“WindClan ambushed us by the tunnel!” he yowled. 
“Raggedstar is dead!” 

Yellowfang froze. The solid floor of the camp 
seemed to give way under her paws, and she was 
falling, falling into darkness. Then her head cleared and 
she forced her paws to move, racing over to 
Brokentail. 

“What happened?” she demanded. 

“They were waiting for us ...” The deputy’s voice 
shook; he seemed dazed with grief and anger. “We 
fought. Raggedstar led us ... then a WindClan cat tore 
out his throat.” He shook his head helplessly. “I 
couldn’t save him ...” 

“And the rest of your patrol?” Yellowfang asked, 
fear surging up inside her. Not more cats dead ... 

“Chasing the WindClan cats across the moor,” 
Brokentail replied. 

Not waiting to hear any more, Yellowfang raced out 
of the camp and across the marshes toward the tunnel 
that led to WindClan. The reek of blood caught in her 


throat before she came within sight of it. At the mouth 
of the tunnel, Raggedstar lay stretched out. A circle of 
torn-up grass and fern surrounded him, and the ground 
was soaked with his blood. His eyes were glazed, 
staring sightlessly up into the sky. 

Yellowfang lay down beside him and pushed her 
muzzle into his fur. Until then she had hoped that he 
hadn’t lost all his lives, or that her medicine cat skills 
might be enough to revive him, or even that Brokentail 
had mistaken the Clan leader’s losing a life for true 
death. But now her hope had gone. Raggedstar’s 
wounds were so severe they had drained all his lives at 
once. He hunted with StarClan now. 

“I loved you so much,” she murmured. “You were 
all I ever wanted. We fought and hunted together, and 
played in the sunlight ... What went wrong? How did 
we ever come to this?” 

A memory of giving birth to Brokentail flashed into 
Yellowfang’s mind, and she saw once again the rage 
that fueled the tiny body. Another pang of grief shook 
her, but she pushed the memory away. 

“Hunt well in StarClan,’ she told Raggedstar, 
drawing her tongue over his fur in a long, caressing 


lick. “I will see you again.” 

Running paw steps alerted her and she looked up to 
see Blackfoot, Scorchwind, and Boulder racing out of 
the tunnel. Spotting her with Raggedstar, they halted 
and stared with growing horror in their eyes. 

“We fought with some WindClan cats,” Boulder 
mewed hoarsely. “But we didn’t know that Raggedstar 
was hurt.” 

“How can he be dead?” Scorchwind whispered, 
taking a pace forward to look down at the body of his 
brother. “He still had nine lives!” 

“A leader can lose all his lives at once if the wounds 
are severe enough,” Yellowfang told him quietly. “Now 
you must carry his body back to camp.” 

As the patrol gathered around, Brokentail rushed up, 
the wild look still in his eyes. “Stay away from my 
father!” he ordered. “I will carry him, no one else!” 

A tush of pity engulfed Yellowfang. My poor son 


As Boulder and Scorchwind heaved Raggedstar’s 
body onto Brokentail’s back, she rested her tail across 
his shoulders, and in a rare moment of gentleness 
Brokentail let it stay there while they walked slowly 


back to camp. 





CHAPTER 36 
w& 


“ 
Yellowfang stood beside Raggedstar'’s body in the 
center of the camp while the cats of ShadowClan filed 
out of their dens to sit vigil for their dead leader. Every 
cat’s eyes held the same stunned expression, as if they 
couldn’t believe that their leader was dead. 

The older warriors and elders in particular were 
struggling with grief. “Raggedstar was leader for such 
a short time,” Archeye mewed. “He should have cared 
for his Clan for many seasons yet.” 

“How terrible, to lose nine lives at once 
Hollyflower murmured. 

Brokentail was crouching beside his father’s head 
with one paw resting on Raggedstar’s cold fur. “Those 
WindClan maggots must have been determined to send 
him to StarClan,” he rasped. 

Struggling to focus through her aching sadness, 
Yellowfang padded to stand at Brokentail’s shoulder. 
“You must go to Moonstone to receive your lives,” she 
reminded him. “You are leader of ShadowClan now!” 

Brokentail looked up at her with fury in his eyes. “I 


1? 


will not leave my father’s body in the cold!” he hissed. 
“We will go tomorrow.” 

Startled—/ thought becoming leader was all he 
ever wanted—Yellowfang didn’t try to argue. She 
bowed her head. “Of course. StarClan_ will 
understand,” she murmured. 

As dawn crept into the sky, the elders gathered 
around to carry Raggedstar’s body outside the camp 
for burial. 

“May StarClan light your path, Raggedstar,” 
Yellowfang announced. “May you find good hunting, 
swift running, and shelter when you sleep.” 

She watched the elders bear their former leader’s 
body away, and felt a tremor of fear in her belly. Jf 
WindClan did this to us, we must prepare for war. 
Hearing angry voices, she noticed Scorchwind and 
Blackfoot huddled beside Tangleburr and Cinderfur. 

“WindClan might attack us at any moment,” 
Cinderfur meowed. “They’ll think we’re weak without 
a leader. What are we going to do?” 

“That’s for Brokentail to decide,’ Tangleburr 
reminded him. Her tail-tip was twitching, but she was 
clearly trying to control her fury. “But he can’t do 


anything until he gets his nine lives.” 

“Then he needs to get a move on,” Blackfoot 
hissed. 

“We have to attack!” Scorchwind declared. “We 
can’t let WindClan get away with this.” 

Brokentail, who had been watching his father’s body 
vanish into the brambles, looked over his shoulder. 
“Vengeance can wait until we have grieved, 
Scorchwind,” he murmured wretchedly. 

He seems further from launching an attack on 
WindClan than ever before, Yellowfang thought, not 
sure whether that was a good thing or not. Surely he 
wants to avenge Raggedstar s death? 

Returning to her den, she found Runningnose 
halfheartedly rolling more balls of moss for the store. 
“Do you think Brokentail even wants to be leader?” he 
asked, echoing Yellowfang’s own thoughts. “He’s only 
just become deputy.” He sighed. “It’s a big 
responsibility for him.” 

“Tt will be difficult,’ Yellowfang admitted, “but he is 
strong enough.” She added, “And he is not alone. We 
will be with him. He needs us to get him through this 
dark time.” Most of all, he needs his mother. 


She left her den and went to find Brokentail. He 
wasn’t in the camp; guessing where he might be, 
Yellowfang padded through the brambles and 
discovered him beside the mound of earth where 
Raggedstar was buried. He was staring at the soil, one 
huge paw resting on the disturbed leaves. 

“Brokentail, it’s time for you to come to the 
Moonstone with me,” Yellowfang mewed. 

Brokentail started and looked up. “It’s too soon....” 
he protested. 

Yellowfang shook her head. “You cannot leave your 
Clan without a leader.” 

Brokentail hesitated, then took a deep breath. “Very 
well. I will do this for the Clan. For my Clan.” 

He seemed sad and quiet as he padded at 
Yellowfang’s shoulder across the marshes. But when 
the WindClan tunnel came into sight he halted with a 
flash of fury in his eyes. “I will not set paw on the 
territory of that evil Clan,” he declared. 

Yellowfang sighed. The journey would be even 
longer if they couldn’t go through WindClan. But she 
made no protest, just led the way farther up the 
Thunderpath until the moorland fell away behind them. 


They crossed beside a small cluster of Twoleg dens; 
Yellowfang worked her claws impatiently into the 
grass as she waited for a chance to race over the hard 
black surface between the snarling monsters. Their 
route took them across frostbitten fields where the 
grass was hard and cold under ther paws. A bitter, icy 
wind blew into their faces. Brokentail plodded with his 
head down, the freezing gusts plastering his fur to his 
sides. 

Darkness had fallen by the time they reached 
Mothermouth. Yellowfang led Brokentail down the 
long tunnel and into the cave, where dazzling light was 
already pouring from the Moonstone. As she waved 
her tail to beckon Brokentail closer, and showed him 
where to lie with his nose against the stone, she 
winced at the memory of her previous dream. 

Please, StarClan, spare me from that. 

But no shrieking, bloodstained kits met Yellowfang’s 
gaze as she woke within her dream. Instead she was 
standing on a bleak and windy stretch of marsh that 
might have been somewhere within ShadowClan 
territory. Looking around for Brokentail, Yellowfang 
saw that the quiet, grief-stricken cat of their journey 


had vanished. Now the tabby tom stood strong and 
erect, his kinked tail held high like a signal. His eyes 
shone and he quivered with excitement. 

“Where are they?” he demanded. “My StarClan 
ancestors?” 

Yellowfang glimpsed movement in the distance, and 
pointed with her tail to where a line of cats was 
advancing steadily over the marshes. A frosty glimmer 
came from their pelts, and the light of stars was in their 
eyes. Cedarstar was in the lead, with his deputy, 
Stonetooth, padding at his shoulder. Sagewhisker and 
Lizardfang were there too, and other cats Yellowfang 
didn’t know, though she recognized some of them as 
cats who had given lives to Raggedstar when he 
became Clan leader. 

At first Yellowfang could only count eight cats, until 
she noticed that one of them was a tiny kit, skipping 
through the long grass in Cedarstar’s paw steps. 

“My daughter ... oh, my daughter,” she whispered. 

She felt a moment’s surprise to see that Raggedstar 
was not among the nine. Surely he would want to 
give a life to his son? Then she told herself that 
Raggedstar’s spirit must still be traveling to StarClan. 


He will watch over Brokentail as he leads his Clan. 

Cedarstar was the first of the nine cats to step 
forward. He bowed his head to Brokentail and 
meowed, “I give you a life to live by the warrior code. 
Remember it well, Brokentail, and let it be your guide. 
Wiser cats than you or I have lost their way without 
it.” 

Yellowfang detected a veiled warning in his words, 
though Brokentail showed no loss of confidence as he 
touched noses with Cedarstar to receive the life. 
Yellowfang knew what agony the leader had to endure 
with each new life, but Brokentail gave little hint of the 
pain beyond a flaring of his nostrils and a twitch of his 
eyes. 

Cedarstar stepped back into the circle of nine cats 
that had formed around Brokentail, and Stonetooth 
took his place. “I give you a life for duty,’ he meowed. 
“Remember what you owe to your Clan as well as 
what your Clan owes to you.” He touched noses with 
Brokentail, who flexed his claws briefly and then was 
still. 

The next StarClan warrior to step forward was 
Dawnstar, the former ShadowClan leader who had 


given a life to Raggedstar. “I give you a life for honor,” 
she told Brokentail. “Honor is expected from all cats, 
but most of all, from a Clan leader. Use the honor of 
leadership carefully.” 

For the first time Brokentail showed emotion as he 
received his third life. His eyes closed as if he was in 
pain, and his claws dug hard into the earth. As the 
StarClan she-cat withdrew, Brokentail opened his eyes 
again and fixed her with a challenging gaze as if he 
blamed her for the torture of receiving her life, but 
Dawnstar did not react as she took her place once 
more in the circle. 

The fourth cat stepped forward; Yellowfang didn’t 
know his name. He was a skinny gray tom, and he 
studied Brokentail carefully before he spoke. “I give 
you a life for truth. Without it, kin is set against kin, 
Clan against Clan. Hold fast to truth in all your dealings 
and let it guide your words.” The skinny tom hesitated 
before darting his head forward like a striking snake 
and touching Brokentail’s nose to give him his life. 

As Yellowfang looked on from outside the circle of 
cats, she began to feel uneasy. All the lives Brokentail 
had received so far seemed to come with a warning, 


almost a threat, and she sensed a reluctance among 
the StarClan cats that was unlike anything she had 
experienced when she had accompanied Raggedstar to 
his ceremony. 

Then she dismissed these thoughts with a lash of her 
tail. Brokentail was the Clan deputy, so he has to be 
the new leader. Even StarClan cant change that, 
and why would they want to? Brokentail is a strong 
and loyal cat. When he has more experience he will 
be a great leader. 

Lizardfang was the next warrior to come forward. 
Yellowfang rejoiced to see his frail limbs strong again, 
and his tabby pelt thick and healthy. “I give you a life 
for judgment,” he meowed. “ShadowClan stands at a 
place where the path ahead divides. Choose to follow 
the right path, for the good of your Clan.” 

As Brokentail received his fifth life, instead of 
appearing unmoved, his limbs and his tail twitched as if 
they were briefly out of his control. He staggered at 
the touch of Lizardfang’s nose, recovering himself with 
an effort. Something huge, something overwhelming, 
seemed to hover around him, as if an unseen battle 
were going on in the very air he breathed. 


Can he stand to receive four more lives? 
Yellowfang wondered. Then she saw the next cat in 
line and bit back a cry of pain. Oh, my precious love. 
I miss you with every beat of my heart. 

Tail held high, Brokentail’s tiny sister pattered 
forward into the circle to stand beside him. “I give you 
a life for love of kin,” she mewed, the wisdom in her 
voice startling Yellowfang as it came from so small a 
body. “And as Clan leader, remember that every Clan 
cat is your kin.” 

Brokentail had to bend his head to receive the life 
from the young kit. As their noses touched a spasm of 
agony shook him, and he closed his eyes, jerking his 
head aside as if for a heartbeat he had seen something 
he could not bear. 

The seventh cat was a stranger to Yellowfang, a 
small brown tabby with a depth of gentleness in her 
eyes. “I give you a life for clear sight,’ she meowed. 
“Brokentail, know yourself and your destiny, but know 
too that destiny can be changed if you choose the right 
path.” 

Again Brokentail staggered as he received the new 
life. Yellowfang thought he looked exhausted. Yet 


throughout he hadn’t uttered the slightest sound of 
pain, not even a whimper. 

The eighth cat, a plump black-and-white tom, had 
also given a life to Raggedstar. He padded up to 
Brokentail and spoke swiftly. “I give you a life for 
strength. This is the time you and your Clan will stand 
or fall. You need to be stronger than ever.” 

What do they mean? Yellowfang wondered. So 
many of the cats had spoken of a divided path for 
ShadowClan, a time when decisions must be made 
about the destiny of all the cats. What are 
Brokentail’s choices, and will he make the right 
ones? 

This time, when Brokentail received the life, he 
seemed to revive, as if the strength the tom had 
promised was already flowing into his limbs and his 
heart. With the end of the ceremony in sight, 
Yellowfang began to breathe more easily. 

All this while, Sagewhisker had stood silently in the 
circle of cats, her gaze fixed on Brokentail. Now she 
stepped forward to give him his last life. “Brokentail, I 
give you a life for compassion. Use it to shelter the 
weakest in your Clan, the kits and elders and the sick. 


Use it to show mercy to your enemies and to choose 
the path your paw steps will follow.” 

Yellowfang watched the spasm of pain rippling 
through Brokentail as Sagewhisker gave him his ninth 
life. For a moment she was afraid that he wouldn’t be 
able to stay on his paws. 

But the discomfort passed. As the nine cats 
acclaimed him by his new name, Brokenstar stood 
strong and proud again, his eyes gleaming as he heard 
the yowls rise up to the stars. 

“Brokenstar! Brokenstar!” 

As the yowling died away, he dipped his head. “My 
ancestors, I thank you,’ he meowed solemnly. “I 
promise that I will make ShadowClan the strongest and 
most feared that it has ever been.” 

The StarClan warriors began to fade, their outlines 
shimmering faintly with starlight until they vanished, 
leaving Yellowfang and Brokenstar alone in the bleak 
marshes. 

Brokenstar turned to Yellowfang. “It is time to 
return,” he announced. His voice dropped to a savage 
snarl, and he lashed his tail. “It is time for 
vengeance!” 


Dusk was falling by the time Yellowfang and 
Brokenstar returned to camp. Brokenstar raced across 
to the Clanrock and summoned the Clan together. “Let 
all cats join here beneath the Clanrock for a meeting!” 

Yellowfang was surprised that he had left out the 
words “old enough to catch their own prey,’ but 
guessed that he had forgotten. He 5 new to this. He'll 
get the words right when hes had more practice. 

Newtspeck emerged from the nursery with Littlekit, 
Wetkit, and Brownkit scampering around her feet. 
Featherstorm followed, but there was no sign of 
Mosskit, Volekit, or Dawnkit. 

Brokenstar gazed down at Featherstorm with a 
disapproving expression. “Where are your kits? Fetch 
them at once!” 

“But they've just gone to sleep!” Featherstorm 
protested. “And it’s very cold out here. Besides, 
they’re not old enough to catch their own prey and 
usually—” 

Brokenstar cut her off. “Are they part of 
ShadowClan?” he growled. “Then get them!” 

So he does want the kits here, Yellowfang thought. 
Why? 


Featherstorm hesitated, anger clear in her eyes, but 
she could not hold Brokenstar’s gaze. She retreated 
into the nursery and reappeared a few heartbeats later, 
guiding her kits in front of her. All three stumbled 
sleepily into the open and collapsed into a bundle of fur 
close to their mother. Brokenstar gave Featherstorm a 
curt nod. 

“T will not rest until WindClan has been punished, 
and until ShadowClan is feared by every cat in the 
forest,” he announced to his Clan. His voice rose to a 
roar. “They will bow down before us! From now on 
warriors will only fight and train for battle. Hunting is 
of little importance, and cats will have to find food 
where they can.” 

He paused, but the Clan was silent; Yellowfang 
thought that shock—and perhaps a little fear—had 
closed their jaws as they exchanged uncertain glances. 

“Meanwhile,” Brokenstar went on, “it is time for me 
to choose a deputy. I say these words before the spirits 
of my ancestors, that they may hear and approve my 
choice. Blackfoot will be the next deputy of 
ShadowClan.” 

The big white warrior rose from his pace and 


walked to the Clanrock. His black paw looked like a 
shadow in the moonlight and his eyes shone with pride. 
“Brokenstar, your choice honors me,” he meowed. ‘TI 
do my best to serve you and our Clan well.” 

Yellowfang felt the Clan relax around her. Blackfoot 
was popular. He hasn t had an apprentice, but then, 
we haven t had any kits ready to give him. 

“Now,” Brokenstar went on, “I need an apprentice. 
Mosskit, step forward.” 

“Wait!” Yellowfang, broke in. “He’s not old 
enough.” 

“Quiet!” Brokenstar’s voice cut across mutters of 
agreement from other cats. “I am the leader and this is 
my decision.” 

Featherstorm, clearly reluctant, prodded Mosskit 
awake. He was a big, healthy kit, but even so, 
Yellowfang knew he wasn’t ready to be an apprentice. 
He stepped forward, glancing around him uncertainly. 

“From this time on,” Brokenstar announced, “you 
will be known as Mosspaw. I will be your mentor.” He 
Jumped down from the Clanrock to touch noses with 
the little cat, who looked startled. 

“That’s not fair!” Volekit complained, gazing at his 


brother with undisguised envy. 

“That’s right!” Dawnkit agreed. “We’re just as old 
as he is!” 

“I promise you will be made apprentices as soon as 
you’re as tall as your brother,’ Brokenstar mewed. 
“Blackfoot will be your mentor, Dawnkit, and 
Clawface can have Volekit.” 

At once Volekit arched his back and stood on his 
toes, as if he was trying to grow taller right away. 

“Stop that!” Featherstorm snapped. “Your brother is 
too young to be an apprentice, and so are you.” 

“But it’s a great honor,” Blackfoot assured her. “You 
should be proud.” 

Newtspeck said nothing, just drew her kits closer to 
her with her tail. 

Though some of the cats were still looking worried, 
Yellowfang could see that most of them thought it was 
a good idea. 

“We don’t have any apprentices just now,” Wolfstep 
commented. “And we need to start training young 
cats.” 

Flintfang nodded. “Mosspaw is big and strong. He’ll 
be fine.” 


Runningnose padded up to Yellowfang and spoke 
into her ear. “I guess we’d better stock up on marigold 
for scratches.” His voice sounded concerned but 
resigned. “You’re looking troubled, but don’t be,” he 
went on. “Everything will be fine, you'll see!” He 
paused, then added, “WindClan is going to regret killing 
Raggedstar, that’s for sure.” 





CHAPTER 37 
w& 


a 

Fernshade lay stretched out on the floor of the 
nursery. A powerful ripple passed along her swollen 
belly, and she bit down hard on the stick Runningnose 
had brought to stifle her shriek of agony. Yellowfang 
blocked the she-cat’s pain so that she could 
concentrate and ran her paw over Fernshade’s belly. 
She could only feel one kit inside, but it was a big one, 
and it was stubbornly refusing to be born. 

A lively ball of fur bounced against Yellowfang’s 
shoulder. “Is the kit here yet?” Volekit squeaked. “I 
want to see!” 

Yellowfang bit back a sharp retort. It was difficult 
enough delivering this stubborn kit without the other 
five and their mothers watching her every move. The 
nursery is so full I can hardly move a whisker! 

“All of you kits, out of here!” she hissed. “Go over 
to the apprentices’ den and play with Mosspaw.” 

“Aw, we want to say hi to the new kit,’ Dawnkit 
protested, disappointed. 

“And you can,” Runningnose promised from his 


place beside Fernshade’s head. “Just not yet. PI call 
you when it’s time.” 

There was a brief moment of squealing as the five 
kits bundled out of the den. 

“PI go keep an eye on them,” Featherstorm 
muttered. 

When she and the kits had gone, Yellowfang had 
room to breathe. She watched another spasm of pain 
pass through Fernshade. “You’re doing very well,” she 
praised her. “It won’t be long now.” 

Her gaze met Runningnose’s and she saw her own 
worry reflected in his eyes. Fernshade was exhausted, 
and there was no sign that the kit inside her was 
making any progress. 

“Feel here,” Yellowfang murmured to Runningnose, 
placing her paw on Fernshade’s belly. “I think her kit is 
the wrong way around.” 

Runningnose reached out his front paw, then 
nodded. “‘You’re right. What do we do now?” 

“Massage her belly just there,’ Yellowfang 
instructed, “and I’ll give the kit a push like this ...” 

For a moment nothing happened, except that 
Fernshade bit down on her stick again, her eyes dull 


and glazed with pain. Then the kit gave a great heave 
inside her. The stick splintered in Fernshade’s jaws, 
and a small black-and-white shape slid out of her onto 
the soft moss. 

“Yes!” Yellowfang gave an exultant yowl. “Well 
done, Fernshade!” 

“Its a fine, handsome tom, 
announced. 

The exhausted queen curled around her son, her 
eyes full of love as she began to lick his fur and guide 
him toward her belly so he could suckle. 

“His face is striped just like a badger,” Yellowfang 
observed. 

“Then that’s his name,’ Fernshade murmured. 
“Badgerkit.” 

Worn out, but full of joy at the successful birth, 
Yellowfang rose to her paws and climbed out of the 
nursery. 

Outside, Wolfstep was pacing back and forth; he 
whipped around as soon as Yellowfang emerged. 
“Well?” he demanded. 

“You have a son,’ Yellowfang told him, seeing 
delight spring up in Wolfstep’s eyes. “You can go in, 


33 


Runningnose 


but be careful. Fernshade is very weak.” 

She followed Wolfstep back in, noting with approval 
how gentle he was as he settled down beside his mate 
and licked her ear. 

“Isn’t he beautiful?” Fernshade whispered, pressing 
her muzzle against Wolfstep’s shoulder. “His name is 
Badgerkit.” 

“He’s the most beautiful kit in the forest,’ Wolfstep 
responded, looking down at his son with love and pride 
in his eyes. “And that’s a really good name.” 

Watching them, Yellowfang felt a warm thrill of 
satisfaction. “This is the best part of being a medicine 
cat,” she told Runningnose. “Breathing new life into 
the Clan.” And we havent seen enough of it lately. 

Since Brokenstar had become leader, the Clan had 
seemed to be a dark place. Yellowfang felt as though 
she spent all her time now treating wounds and 
overseeing burials. Stonetooth had died peacefully in 
his sleep; Yellowfang was glad that he hadn’t had to 
witness the battles Brokenstar had led his warriors 
into. Vengeance had been taken on WindClan more 
times than Yellowfang could count, with stolen rabbits 
regularly appearing on the ShadowClan fresh-kill pile. 


A hint of ThunderClan scent on the wrong side of the 
border near Fourtrees had led Brokenstar to extend 
patrols beyond the Thunderpath until warriors returned 
with tufts of ThunderClan fur caught in their claws and 
the scent of their rivals’ blood on their pelts. It seemed 
as if ShadowClan was at war with every cat, and amid 
all this turmoil the birth of new kits felt even more 
precious. 

Leaving the new family together, Yellowfang slipped 
out of the nursery to see light growing in the sky, the 
trees outlined against a bright morning. Yellowfang 
took in a deep breath and arched her back in a long 
stretch. 

“You're exhausted,’ Runningnose commented, 
emerging from the nursery behind her. “Why don’t you 
go back to the den and sleep? I’ll fetch some wet moss 
for Fernshade.” 

Yellowfang opened her jaws to protest, then realized 
that she was so tired she could scarcely hold her head 
up. “Okay, thanks,” she mumbled, and headed for her 
nest. 

She hardly seemed to have slept for a heartbeat 
when she was awoken by a small nose prodding her in 


her side. “Excuse me, Yellowfang,” a voice squeaked. 
“T’m hurting.” 

Yellowfang opened her eyes to see Brownkit 
standing in front of her, holding up one paw. “Is it a 
thorn?” She yawned as she scrambled out of her nest. 
“Let me look.” 

But however carefully Yellowfang searched, she 
couldn’t find a thorn in the tiny paw. Letting down her 
defenses, she tracked Brownkit’s pain and realized that 
it came from his shoulder. Somehow he had wrenched 
It. 

“How did this happen?” she asked him. “What have 
you been up to?” 

“Brokenstar let all the kits go with Mosspaw to the 
training area, to give Fernshade some peace and 
quiet,” Brownkit explained. His eyes glowed at the 
memory. “It was great! We learned some battle 
moves; watch this—ouch!” He broke off with a gasp 
of pain as he tried to swipe with his injured leg. 

“You're too young to leave the camp, let alone start 
training,” Yellowfang growled as she went to look for 
some daisy leaves to treat the sprain. 

“Am not!” Brownkit squeaked. “I’m nearly three 


moons old, like Mosspaw when he became 
Brokenstar’s apprentice. You should see him fighting 
now! He’s awesome!” 

‘TIm sure he is, but no more training for you!” 
Yellowfang warned him. 

“You’re not the leader of the Clan!” Brownkit 
retorted. “Brokenstar is! And if he says I can train, 
then I will!” 

Yellowfang didn’t speak, just prepared the poultice 
for Brownkit, plastering it on securely with cobweb. 
“Now go rest in the nursery,” she told him, “and see 
me again tomorrow.” 

As the kit left he passed Runningnose in the 
entrance to the den. “Fernshade and Badgerkit are 
doing wel,” he told Yellowfang. “She seems to have 
plenty of milk, thank StarClan!” 

Yellowfang acknowledged his news with a nod. 
‘Im going to speak to Brokenstar,’ she meowed. 
“Apparently he took the kits training this morning.” 

Runningnose blinked. “That’s not necessarily a bad 
thing,” he pointed out. “It’s good for them to get some 
exercise away from the nursery, especially when 
Fernshade needs to rest.” 


“Not if they get injured!” Yellowfang retorted. She 
headed into the clearing, aiming for the leader’s den 
among the oak roots, but before she reached it 
Brokenstar appeared and leaped up onto the Clanrock, 
yowling a summons. 

ShadowClan warriors began pushing their way out 
of their den to gather around the rock. Blackfoot sat at 
the base, his ears pricked. Flintfang and Tangleburr 
came to join him. Glancing around at her Clanmates, 
Yellowfang thought how hungry and skinny they all 
looked, and nearly every warrior bore a new scar from 
one border skirmish or another. 

Rowanberry and Nutwhisker bounded over to 
Yellowfang. “What’s this all about?” Nutwhisker 
mewed. 

Yellowfang shrugged. “I have no idea.” 

The elders emerged at the entrance to their den, and 
all the kits—even Brownkit, hobbling bravely on three 
paws—scrambled out of the nursery and clustered 
together at the front of the crowd. Their whiskers 
quivered with anticipation; Yellowfang guessed that 
they were all hoping to be made apprentices. 

“Where is Fernshade?” Brokenstar demanded. 


Runningnose, who was sitting beside Yellowfang, 
rose to his paws and dipped his head politely to his 
Clan leader. “She’s asleep, Brokenstar,” he meowed. 
“We shouldn’t wake her.” 

Brokenstar hesitated, then gave a reluctant nod. 
“Cats of ShadowClan,” he began. “You have fought 
well in our recent battles. Our Clan has scored 
victories in ThunderClan and WindClan, and even 
defeated some kittypets foolish enough to stray into the 
forest from Twolegplace. But I think the Clan can still 
be stronger,” he went on, his eyes gleaming. 

Blackfoot sprang up from his place at the foot of the 
Clanrock. “What about battle training every day?” he 
suggested. “That would really sharpen our skills.” 

And how do you suppose we're going to fill our 
bellies, mouse-brain? Yellowfang thought. 

“We could patrol at sunhigh as well as dawn and 
evening,” Russetfur suggested. “Let ThunderClan and 
WindClan know that we’re always watching.” 

“We could even put a permanent patrol across the 
Thunderpath,” Deerfoot added. 

Yellowfang exchanged a glance with Runningnose, 
and saw her own doubts reflected in his eyes. We 


don t have enough time or cats to do all this! 

Brokenstar looked at all the cats gathered around 
the Clanrock, and his gaze rested longest on the elders. 
“Even our elders have a role to play,’ Brokenstar 
announced, his gaze still firmly fixed on the old cats, 
who were beginning to look uneasy. 

Great StarClan! Yellowfang thought. Hes not 
going to ask them to train young cats, is he? Or 
hunt? That’ not fair! 

Brokenstar drew one paw over the rock. “I know 
they would do anything to make us stronger and more 
powerful. And with that in mind, I have decided that 
they can best help their Clan by leaving the camp.” 

A stunned silence followed. Then yowls of protest 
rose up from all over the clearing. “You can’t do that!” 
Rowanberry called out. “It’s against the warrior 
code!” 

“Yes, they’ve earned their place with us,” Wolfstep 
declared. 

For a moment, Yellowfang refused to believe what 
she was hearing. The elders were just as shocked, 
turning to one another with looks of indignation and 
growing fear. 


“The elders are no use for fighting or hunting or 
having kits,” Brokenstar explained, dismissing the cats’ 
protests with a wave of his tail. “So they can’t take up 
precious room or prey. They must go.” 

To Yellowfang’s horror, she saw that some of the 
warriors were beginning to convince themselves that 
Brokenstar was right. 

“They might be more comfortable away from the 
camp,” Deerfoot commented. 

Cinderfur nodded. “True. Especially with so many 
kits scampering around. You know how the little ones 
are always bothering the elders.” 

Yellowfang didn’t want to hear any more. She 
padded over to where the elders were clustered 
together in front of their den. 

Poolcloud’s shoulder fur was bristling, and she 
lashed her tail. “Brokenstar can’t do this to us!” she 
snarled. “Has he forgotten how well we’ve served our 
Clan?” 

Archeye nodded; he was working his claws into the 
ground, rage flaring in his eyes. “If he remembers, he 
obviously doesn’t care,” he spat. “What would he do if 
we refused to go?” 


“I don’t think we want to find out,’ Nightpelt 
warned, resting his tail on the older cat’s shoulder. “He 
could make us fight, prove that we can still be warriors 
by invading the other Clans. Do you want to be a part 
of that?” In a lower voice he added, “We all know that 
these battles aren’t necessary.” 

Hollyflower sighed. “Let’s just go,’ she growled. 
“This isn’t the ShadowClan I knew, not anymore.” She 
brushed her tail along Crowtail’s side. “Come on, let’s 
collect our bedding.” 

Nightpelt gazed up to where Brokenstar still stood 
on the Clanrock. “We will go, Brokenstar.” 

“Good,” the Clan leader meowed. “Move out at 
once, and good luck with your hunting.” 

As the elders filed back into their den more 
murmurs of protest followed them, but no cat dared to 
speak out loud. 

Yellowfang halted Nightpelt with a paw on his 
shoulder. “This is wrong, and you know it,” she hissed. 

Nightpelt looked at her with troubled eyes. “I know,” 
he murmured, “but Brokenstar is our leader. StarClan 
gave him nine lives. They have done nothing to stop 
him so far. This must be their will as well as his.” 


Yellowfang couldn’t think of an argument against 
that. No! This can’t be the will of StarClan! 

Inwardly seething, she slipped into the elders’ den 
and helped them to gather up their favorite soft bits of 
bedding. Runningnose followed her and rolled up the 
moss and fern into bundles for carrying. When 
everything was ready, Yellowfang led the way back 
into the clearing. Refusing to look at Brokenstar, she 
headed for the entrance, hotly aware that the gaze of 
all the rest of the Clan was fixed on her and the elders. 

The group of cats trekked out of the camp in silence 
and padded across the marsh. Yellowfang took them to 
a spindly copse of trees that offered some shelter; it 
was still within ShadowClan territory, and not too far 
from the camp. There she found a spot where rock 
had fallen away to make a hollow in a bank, shaded by 
overarching clumps of fern. Yellowfang and 
Runningnose cleared away the debris inside and dug 
out more soil to enlarge the space until it was big 
enough for all the elders. Nightpelt tried to help, but the 
vigorous exercise brought on a fit of coughing. 

“Let us finish this,’ Yellowfang told him. “You scout 
around to see if you can find any prey.” 


When the den was ready, the elders brought in their 
bedding and began arranging it into nests. 

“This is okay,’ Crowtail mewed, sounding 
determined. “We’ll be fine here, Yellowfang.” 

Yellowfang wondered if the black tabby she-cat was 
trying to convince herself as well as her denmates. “T’ll 
visit every day with herbs and whatever prey I can 
catch,” she promised. 

“Don’t neglect your duties,” Poolcloud sneered, “or 
Brokenstar might banish you as well.” 

“You haven’t been banished!” Yellowfang protested. 
“You're still part of ShadowClan. You still live in our 
territory.” 

Nightpelt trotted up with a mouse dangling from his 
jaws, in time to hear her last words. “It feels like 
banishment,” he commented quietly. 

Yellowfang left Runningnose to finish settling in the 
elders, and marched off to find Brokenstar. Shrill 
squealing from the training area alerted her as she 
approached the camp, and she turned her paw steps 
toward the sound. When she reached the edge of the 
clearing she saw all five kits and Mosspaw stalking 
one another, leaping and swiping as they practiced 


battle moves. Brokenstar sat on an ivy-covered tree 
stump, watching them with a gleam of satisfaction in 
his eyes. 

Yellowfang strode over to Brokenstar. “I have to 
speak with you,” she meowed. 

Brokenstar stared down at her. “Go on, then. 
Speak.” 

Yellowfang took a deep breath. “What are you 
doing?” she demanded. “Training kits who are too 
young to fight? Sending the elders away from their 
den? This isn’t part of the warrior code!” 

Brokenstar narrowed his eyes. “Nor is questioning 
your Clan leader,” he hissed. “You are my medicine 
cat, so you do as I say. Are the elders safe? 
Sheltered?” 

“Yes,” Yellowfang answered reluctantly. “But—” 

“Then they are fine,” Brokenstar interrupted. “And 
if the kits want to learn how to fight, why should I stop 
them? We have many enemies, Yellowfang.” 

You have made us many enemies, you mean, 
Yellowfang thought. 

Brokenstar had turned away from her and was 
shouting instructions to the cats in the clearing. “No, 


Littlekit! Use your hind paws! Brownkit, Wetkit, try the 
double attack again on Mosspaw. Remember to strike 
him at exactly the same time.” 

Yellowfang knew that there was no point in trying to 
argue with Brokenstar any further. Turning to leave, 
she halted at the sound of a squeal from the far side of 
the clearing. She spun around to see Brownkit and 
Wetkit backing away from Mosspaw. The tiny 
apprentice was lying ominously still. 

“We were trying that double-attack trick, like you 
said,” Brownkit squeaked. “Did we do it right?” 

A horrible suspicion rose to choke Yellowfang as 
she bounded over to Mosspaw. His head was 
wrenched at an awkward angle and his eyes were 
open but glazed. 

Great StarClan, he’s dead! 

Striving to keep calm, Yellowfang stepped between 
the kits and Mosspaw’s body. “Go straight back to the 
camp,” she ordered them. “Go on, all of you!” 

The five kits gave one another bewildered looks, 
then scampered obediently away. “I guess Mosspaw 
must be hurt real bad!” Volekit exclaimed as they left. 

Brokenstar strode across and confronted 


Yellowfang. “What’s going on? Why have you stopped 
the training?” 

Yellowfang was so horrified it was hard for her to 
keep all her paws on the ground and not leap at her 
Clan leader, clawing at his eyes. “Look what 
happened!” she yowled. 

Brokenstar gazed down at the tiny limp body. “T 
should have taught them better,’ he mewed. “They 
must have got the angle wrong.” 

“That’s not the point!” Yellowfang snarled. “An 
apprentice is dead!” 

Brokenstar bowed his head. “You’re right, it’s 
terrible.” There was genuine regret in his voice. “The 
Clan needs apprentices more than ever.” 

Her heart wailing with grief, Yellowfang picked up 
Mosspaw’s body by his scruff and carried him back to 
the camp. He wasn t even four moons old! 

In their den, Runningnose looked startled and 
shocked as Yellowfang laid Mosspaw’s body down and 
began to smooth his ruffled fur. “What in the name of 
Starclan—” he began. 

Yellowfang cut off his question. “Get Featherstorm,” 
she ordered. 


Runningnose hurried off at once and returned a few 
heartbeats later with Mosspaw’s mother. For a 
moment Featherstorm stood rigid, staring at the lifeless 
body of her son. 

“T’m so sorry,” Yellowfang mewed. 

Featherstorm seemed not to have heard her. She 
flung her head back and let out an anguished shriek. 
“No! No!” 

“PI get her some thyme leaves for the shock,” 
Runningnose murmured, slipping past Yellow fang. 

Featherstorm turned to Yellowfang, her eyes full of 
grief and confusion. “He was only training,’ she 
meowed, her voice shaking. “How could this have 
happened?” 

Yellowfang was determined that the kits shouldn’t 
be blamed for killing a Clanmate. “It was a terrible 
accident,” she replied. 

As Featherstorm crouched beside her son, pushing 
her nose into his fur, Yellowfang heard Brokenstar’s 
voice raised in a summons to the Clan. “What now?” 
she growled as she headed out into the clearing. 

Brokenstar stood once more upon the Clanrock. The 
rest of the Clan was gathering, and Yellowfang 


couldn’t help glancing toward the elders’ den, waiting 
for them to emerge. It feels so strange, that they 
aren t here! 

“ÉI have some very sad news,’ Brokenstar 
announced. “Mosspaw is dead.” 

Brownkit and Wetkit let out a shriek, while murmurs 
of shock and disbelief rose from the rest of the Clan. 

“It was just an accident,” Brokenstar went on. “You 
kits were all very brave. To reward you, I’m going to 
make you all apprentices.” 

The kits’ shock changed to squeals of excitement. 
Yellowfang closed her eyes. Has Brokenstar learned 
nothing? 

“Volepaw, you will be my apprentice,’ Brokenstar 
mewed briskly, not bothering to speak the usual words 
of the apprentice ceremony. “Clawface, I know I 
promised him to you, but you can have Littlepaw 
instead. I owe it to Mosspaw to train his brother in his 
place. Blackfoot, you take Dawnpaw. Boulder, you will 
have Wetpaw, and Stumpytail will have Brownpaw.” 

The crowd of cats shifted as four of the kits 
scampered up to their new mentors to touch noses 
with them. Only Volepaw remained at the foot of the 


Clanrock, gazing up at Brokenstar with shining eyes. 

“I am proud of my Clan,” Brokenstar declared. “We 
have five new apprentices! Victory will be ours in 
every battle!” Glancing around, he asked, “Where is 
Featherstorm?” 

“In my den,” Yellowfang replied. 

“Fetch her.” 

Before Yellowfang could move, Featherstorm 
emerged from the medicine cats’ den. Her head was 
bowed and her tail trailed in the dust. 

“ShadowClan owes you a great debt for mothering 
so many warriors,” Brokenstar told her. “I think it 
would be best if you join the elders now, where you 
can rest and be proud.” 

For a heartbeat Featherstorm did not move, her eyes 
puzzled as she gazed at Brokenstar. Yellowfang 
wondered if she expected the Clan leader to 
acknowledge that they were kin, that she was his 
father’s mother. Then she nodded without saying a 
word. Yellowfang stared after her in dismay as she 
stumbled across the clearing and vanished into the 
brambles. 

“There’s another cat gone,” Rowanberry murmured 


worriedly to Clawface. “What is Brokenstar thinking?” 

“StarClan knows,” her mate responded with a 
twitch of his whiskers. “If he’s not careful, there’ll be 
more of us out there than in camp.” 

“Just watch what you say!” Tangleburr hissed 
beside him. “Don’t go asking for trouble. Brokenstar 
hears everything!” 

The crowd of cats began to break up, and the new 
mentors led their apprentices out for the tour of the 
borders. The little cats weren’t as excited as new 
apprentices usually were because they had already left 
the camp to practice their battle moves, but they might 
be more impressed when they realized how far 
ShadowClan stretched. 

As Yellowfang watched them go, she realized that 
Brightflower had padded up to her side. The she-cat 
looked excited but apprehensive, her whiskers 
quivering. “Brackenfoot and I are expecting kits!” she 
announced. 

Yellowfang wished she could be as thrilled as usual 
at the prospect of new kits for the Clan, but this time 
all she could do was stare at her mother as a wave of 
despair washed over her. 


“May StarClan help you all,” she whispered. 





CHAPTER 38 
w& 


“ 

Brokenstar stood on top of the Great Rock with the 
bare branches of the oaks at Fourtrees creaking over 
his head. A cold wind drove shreds of cloud across the 
sky where the full moon shone fitfully. Blackfoot sat at 
the foot of the rock, with Russetfur, Stumpytail, 
Brownpaw, and Brackenfoot huddled together close 
by. Brightflower hadn’t come to the Gathering this time 
because her kits were almost ready to be born. 

Yellowfang sat with the other medicine cats, though 
she no longer felt at ease among them. Had StarClan 
told them in their dreams what was going on in 
ShadowClan? Her own dreams of StarClan were 
limited to visions of blood and death, of battles between 
cats too young to open their eyes. If these were 
omens, ShadowClan was doomed—and it seemed that 
she could do nothing to help. Yellowfang listened 
apprehensively as her Clan leader began his report. 

“ShadowClan is stronger than ever,’ Brokenstar 
announced with triumph in his eyes. “We have been 
challenged on each border, but have won in every 


battle!” His gaze raked across the cats in the clearing 
below. “Let all Clans know that we will tolerate no 
trespassing, no prey-stealing, no dishonor.” He 
narrowed his eyes, as if he was defying any of the cats 
to comment. “And we have a new apprentice: 
Badgerpaw,” he finished. 

Yellowfang watched Badgerpaw rise to his paws 
beside his mentor, Flintfang. The black-and-white tom 
held his head high, but he still looked tiny. 

He’ barely three moons old! 

“Badgerpaw! Badgerpaw!” 

The other ShadowClan apprentices cheered loudly 
beside their Clanmate, though Yellowfang couldn’t help 
thinking about how small they looked beside the 
apprentices from the other Clans. Her belly clenched 
with the memory of grief. One ShadowClan apprentice 
was missing since the last Gathering: Volepaw had died 
of an infected wound from a fight with rats. 

Brokenstar makes a rat fight part of every 
apprentice 5 training now. Is he mad? 

As the cheers for Badgerpaw died away, Barkface 
leaned over and whispered into Yellowfang’s ear. “Tell 
me that apprentice is old enough to start training!” His 


voice was taut, and there was disapproval in his gaze. 

Spottedleaf, the new ThunderClan medicine cat, 
opened her eyes wide with anxiety. “No cat would 
train kits younger than six moons, would they?” 

“StarClan wouldn’t allow that, surely?” Barkface 
added. 

“It would be completely against the warrior code,” 
Mudfur declared. 

There was weight in the tone of all the medicine 
cats, suggesting that Yellowfang should do something 
to stop the training of kits. 

How can I admit that I’m powerless when it 
comes to influencing Brokenstar? she thought with 
an irritable flick of her ears. “Brokenstar knows what 
he’s doing,” she mewed aloud, turning her back on the 
other medicine cats. “It’s none of your business.” 

She could hear them muttering about what a 
dreadful temper she had, but she ignored them. There s 
no way I can defend Brokenstar, so its better that 1 
don t speak to them at all. 

Yellowfang had given up hoping that her Clanmates 
would stand up to their leader. Brokenstar had 
convinced them that every living creature was their 


enemy, and his cats would do anything, even surrender 
their own kits, to keep their Clan safe. And the elders, 
whose wisdom had once been so important in guiding 
the Clan, were still exiled in the marshes. 

He has complete power now! Great StarClan, is 
there nothing any cat can do? 

At the end of the Gathering, Brokenstar swept away 
from Fourtrees at the head of his Clan. Badgerpaw 
was pattering along beside him, his eyes still full of 
excitement at seeing the other Clans for the first time. 
Walking behind them, Yellowfang was able to overhear 
their conversation. 

“You'll be able to fight in your first real battle soon,” 
Brokenstar promised the apprentice. “You’ve been 
training for half a moon, so you’re ready.” 

“Really?” Badgerpaw gasped. 

Brokenstar nodded. “I’ve scented traces of 
WindClan on our territory, so we will attack at dawn! 
Those rabbit-eaters will soon discover they can’t set 
paw in ShadowClan territory and get away with it.” 

Ready to burst with excitement and pride, 
Badgerpaw darted off to his mentor, Flntfang. “I’m 
going to fight!” he announced, dancing along beside the 


powerful gray tom. “Brokenstar said! I'll use that two- 
pawed move you taught me, and the leap-and-scratch 


Flintfang gazed down at him. “Just remember 
everything I’ve taught you, and that there’s no shame 
in losing your first battle,’ he meowed. His tone was 
heavy, and Yellowfang wondered just how keen he 
was to lead his tiny apprentice into a hostile Clan. 

Fernshade, who was walking beside Yellowfang, 
looked fondly across at Badgerpaw. “I’m so proud of 
him!” she exclaimed. “I thought I’d never manage to 
give birth to him, and he’s everything to me. And now 
he’s going to be a true ShadowClan warrior!” 

Yellowfang drew a breath to speak, but bit back the 
words. He shouldnt even be an apprentice yet! 


Yellowfang crouched in the prickly grass, listening to 
the sounds of the skirmish with WindClan that came 
from the far side of the Thunderpath. The sun shone 
brightly over her head and branches in the fresh green 
of newleaf rustled at the edge of the forest. 

This is not a day when cats should die. 

Paw steps sounded behind Yellowfang and she 
turned her head to see Nightpelt approaching with the 


limp body of a vole in his jaws. In spite of the elders’ 
exile, the young black cat looked settled and confident. 
Yellowfang knew he had found a purpose in life, doing 
most of the hunting for his companions, keeping up 
their spirits when they were far from the camp where 
they had expected to live out their days. 

Nightpelt set down his prey and sat beside 
Yellowfang, his ears pricked as he listened to the 
screeches and thuds from the battle. “How long will 
this continue, do you think?” he murmured. 

“Until every cat is dead,” Yellowfang replied bitterly, 
“either here or in WindClan.” 

“Why does StarClan let Brokenstar do it?” Nightpelt 
asked. 

“Perhaps they are proud of him,’ Yellowfang 
responded. J have begged StarClan for reasons, but 
they ignore me. They have abandoned us to 
wherever Brokenstar leads. “After all?’ she went on 
out loud, “ShadowClan is the strongest and most 
feared of all the Clans now.” 

Nightpelt shook his head. “I cannot believe our 
ancestors would find any glory in this constant 
bloodshed.” With a deep sigh, he picked up his prey 


and headed for the elders’ den in the copse. 

Yellowfang felt a pang of guilt. Every night her 
dreams were full of blood and darkness, demonstrating 
over and over that what Brokenstar was doing was 
absolutely wrong. But there was no guidance from 
StarClan, not even an appearance from Silverflame to 
promise that all would be well in the end. Whatever 
Yellowfang did, it was up to her alone. J have to stop 
him! she thought. I am his medicine cat; he must 
listen to me! 

Just then, Russetfur came panting up. “Yellowfang!” 
she gasped. “Runningnose sent me to find you! 
Brightflower’s kits are coming!” 

Yellowfang sprang to her paws and raced back to 
the camp. But when she reached the nursery, she 
found Brightflower already curled around two furry 
little scraps, while Runningnose looked on with 
satisfaction. 

“Oh, they’re beautiful!” Yellowfang exclaimed, with 
a nod of approval for Runningnose. “Have you named 
them yet?” 

Brightflower looked up from licking a_ tiny 
tortoiseshell she-cat. “This is Marigoldkit,” she purred, 


“and the little gray tom is Muintkit. Kits, this is 
Yellowfang. She’s your big sister.” 

Both kits looked strong and healthy, suckling at 
Brightflower’s belly with their eyes tightly shut and 
their soft paws kneading rhythmically. A stab of pain 
struck Yellowfang as she pictured her own daughters, 
who had gone to StarClan before they had a chance at 
life. She bent her head and touched each tiny head 
gently with her nose. “Hello, kits,’ she murmured. 
“Welcome to ShadowClan.” 

“You would have been a great mother,” 
Brightflower whispered. 

Yellowfang tensed. “Never!” she hissed. “This is 
my life now.” 

Then she saw Marigoldkit pummeling at her mother 
with tiny paws, and love and longing swept over her 
again. “They’re perfect!” she breathed. 

The noise of cats returning to the camp intruded on 
the blissful silence inside the nursery. Yellowfang 
raised her head. “Is that news of the battle?” 

She scrambled out of the nursery to see Flintfang 
emerging from the entrance with a crooked black-and- 
white shape dangling from his jaws. 


“Oh, no!” Yellowfang yowled. “Badgerpaw!” 

She raced across to Flintfang, meeting him in the 
center of the clearing. The gray tom laid his burden 
down and smoothed the fur on his apprentice’s head 
with one paw. The warrior’s eyes were glazed as if he 
still saw the blood and terror of the battle. 

“He fought like a lion,” Flntfang meowed hoarsely, 
turning his shocked gaze on Yellowfang. “He should 
not have died because he should not have been 
fighting! I will never train kits again. It’s wrong, and it 
brings shame to our Clan.” 

Yellowfang crouched down beside Badgerpaw’s 
puny body, licking him to clean away the blood and filth 
of battle. “You will go to StarClan, Badgerpaw,” she 
murmured between the strong strokes of her tongue. 
“You will shine so brightly, I promise you.” 

“He’s not Badgerpaw anymore,” Flintfang gently 
corrected her. “I gave him his warrior name before he 
died. I hope that’s okay. He’s called Badgerfang now.” 

A surge of compassion swelled up in Yellowfang for 
this bewildered, grieving warrior. “It’s a great name,” 
she told him, “and he earned it. You’re right. This has 
to stop.” She finished her licking and stood up. “I must 


tell Fernshade what happened.” 

‘TI tell her,’ Flintfang mewed bravely. “I owe her 
that much, and I can assure her that her son died like a 
true warrior.” 

As Flintfang walked toward the warriors’ den, there 
was more noise from the entrance. Brokenstar 
bounded through the thorns with the rest of his patrol. 
Every cat was buoyant with pride, tails fluffed up and 
their eyes shining. 

“We will feast tonight!” Brokenstar announced, 
calling to the apprentices. “Off you go,” he ordered 
when they stood in front of him. “Bring back fresh-kill. 
We must celebrate. ShadowClan is victorious again!” 

As the apprentices dashed off, Yellowfang marched 
up to Brokenstar. “I have news for you,” she snarled. 

Brokenstar stared at her for a moment, then nodded 
and led the way to his den. He seemed to fill the space 
between the oak roots with fur and muscle and 
gleaming eyes. 

“Badgerfang is dead. Or did you know that 
already?” Yellowfang challenged him. 

For a second she thought Brokenstar looked 
shocked, but his confidence returned so quickly that 


she couldn’t be sure. “That’s a shame,” he meowed. 
“He would have made a great warrior.” 

Yellowfang felt the bitng fangs of anger, sharper 
than a fox’s jaws. “Maybe one day, but he was too 
young!” she snapped. “You must stop training kits 
before they are six moons old. You will destroy our 
Clan before they can become warriors!” 

“That is my decision, not yours,” Brokenstar 
growled. 

“Then I will walk with StarClan in my dreams,” 
Yellowfang threatened him, grief and fury making her 
paws throb. “T will let them know exactly what you’re 
doing, and they will take away your nine lives.” 

Brokenstar burst into an incredulous mrrow of 
laughter. “StarClan will do nothing to stop me, old cat,” 
he retorted. “I have made their Clan glorious! Let them 
try! You certainly won’t stop me.” He flicked his tail at 
her. “Now, do your duty and heal my warriors before 
we celebrate.” 

Seething with anger, Yellowfang left. Across the 
clearing she spotted a line of injured cats already 
waiting outside her den. There are so many battles 
now, every cat knows to come straight to my den as 


soon as they return, she thought. Being wounded is 
just routine. 

She bounded across the clearing and slipped 
between the boulders into her den. Runningnose was 
binding a poultice of marigold onto Scorchwind’s 
shoulder. Warmth flickered into Yellowfang’s heart at 
the sight of her companion. J couldnt hope for a 
more patient and loyal medicine cat to have beside 
me. 

Scorchwind kept turning his head to talk to Boulder, 
who was waiting with blood dripping from a torn ear. 
“Did you see me scratch that WindClan tom?” he 
prompted. “I showed that furball who’s the strongest!” 

“You should have seen me fighting with their 
deputy,” Boulder responded. “I think he must be still 
running!” 

Do they even know that Badgerfang died today? 

Yellowfang sighed and went to fetch marigold, 
goldenrod, and cobweb. “Let me look at that ear,” she 
snapped at Boulder. “And for StarClan’s sake, keep 
still!” 

While she was cleaning up the savaged ear, 
Littlepaw crept into the den, holding out one paw that 


was bleeding where a claw had been torn away. “Is it 
true?” he mewed. “Is Badgerfang really dead?” 

“Yes,” Yellowfang replied curtly. 

To her astonishment, Littlepaw’s eyes shone. “Wow, 
he’s a true warrior now! I hope he’s watching me from 
StarClan!” 

Grief struck Yellowfang like a blow. These tiny cats 
are far too accepting of death in battle. The 
warrior code has been trampled in the dust if they 
have no hope of living long enough to become 
elders. 

When the last injured warrior had been treated, 
Runningnose helped Yellowfang clean up the leftover 
herbs. “Are you coming to the feast?” he asked. 
Yellowfang shook her head. “I’m not hungry. You 
When Runningnose had left the den, Yellowfang did 
her best to ignore the sounds of celebration outside, 
and curled up in her nest. As sleep claimed her, she 
turned her thoughts toward StarClan. They cannot 
hide from me forever! I have to speak with them! 

Opening her eyes within her dream, Yellowfang 
found herself in the windswept marsh where 


go 


Brokenstar had received his nine lives. She paced 
among the reeds and scrubby bushes until she found 
Cedarstar, his head lowered as he lapped from a pool. 

All the pent-up anger of the last moons burst from 
Yellowfang at once. “Why did you let Brokenstar 
become leader?” she shrieked. “What were you 
thinking, you mouse-brained foxes?” 

Cedarstar raised his head and shook droplets of 
water from his whiskers. His gaze was solemn. “What 
choice did we have?” he asked. “Brokenstar was 
Raggedstar’s deputy. When Raggedstar died, we had 
to make him leader. That is the way of the warrior 
code.” 

“Well, you made a mistake!” Yellowfang retorted. 
“There are kits here who shouldn’t even have been 
apprentices, let alone fighting in battle! You have to 
stop him.” 

Cedarstar turned away. “There’s nothing we can do. 
Brokenstar promised to make ShadowClan the most 
feared Clan in the forest, and he has kept his promise.” 

“What, even feared by StarClan?” Yellowfang 
sneered. Frustration and fury and compassion for the 
innocent dead spilled over inside her. “A curse upon 


you for letting us suffer like this!” 

As she screeched out the words she awoke with a 
jolt in her own nest. StarClan, Cedarstar, the scent of 
her ancestors had all vanished. Her questions remained 
unanswered. StarClan could do nothing to help. 
Yellowfang’s anger ebbed, leaving behind nothing but 
emptiness and a strange sense of loss. She had never 
felt more alone, more abandoned by the ancestors who 
should have protected her. From now on, I cannot 
even trust StarClan. 


“It’s the meeting tonight,’ Runningnose remarked. 
“We should go to the Moonstone.” 

Half a moon had passed since Yellowfang had 
dreamed of Cedarstar. Since then she had had no 
contact with StarClan, not even in dreams of violence 
and blood. She knew that she could not go meet the 
other medicine cats, press her nose against the 
Moonstone, and pretend that nothing had changed. “Go 
without me,” she meowed. “TI have nothing to say to 
them or to our ancestors.” 

Runningnose’s voice was urgent. “You cannot give 
up hope.” 

“As long as Brokenstar rules this Clan, there is no 


hope!” Yellowfang snarled. 

“Then don’t give up on your Clanmates,” 
Runningnose pleaded. “They need you. I need you. 
Please, Yellowfang, you have to keep going.” 

“What, keep on burying kits who should still be at 
their mother’s bellies?” Yellowfang let her fury spill out 
in a low-voiced snarl. “Keep on treating wounds from 
battles that should not have been fought? Keep on 
sending the elders to the farthest corner of the territory 
because their wisdom is valued less than dirt?” 

Runningnose shook his head. “I made a vow to 
serve ShadowClan,” he mewed quietly, “and that will 
outlast any leader.” 

Yellowfang touched Runningnose on the shoulder 
with her tail. “Your loyalty is admirable,’ she 
murmured. “I chose well when I made you my 
apprentice.” 

Following her friend into the clearing, Yellowfang 
watched him leave for the meeting. Her hatred of 
StarClan was a cold, hard knot inside her. Around her 
the life of the Clan went on; Blackfoot was leading a 
patrol out, while the apprentices dragged bedding out 
of the warriors’ den. Yet there were no elders sunning 


themselves at the entrance to their den, and no hunters 
returning laden with fresh-kill. 

ShadowClan is victorious and feared by all the 
Clans, just as Brokenstar promised. But darkness 
lies at its heart. 

Excited squeaks from the other side of the clearing 
jerked Yellowfang out of her black mood. Her heart 
lifted as she watched Brightflower’s kits playing 
outside the nursery. Then she realized that Marigoldkit 
was pouncing on a ball of moss, shredding it to bits 
with tiny claws, while Mintkit was dragging a feather 
along the ground, worrying at it as if it were a defeated 
enemy. 

So young, and already playing at battle? 

Yellowfang bounded across the clearing. “I know a 
better game,” she announced. “See if you can catch 
my tail.” She twitched the tip invitingly in front of 
Mintkit. 

Both kits stopped what they were doing. They 
looked at Yellowfang’s tail, then at each other, but 
neither of them moved. 

If a cat had offered that to me or my littermates, 
Yellowfang thought, their tail would have been 


shredded by now. 

“Okay,” she mewed. “What about this?” She held 
her tail out level with the ground. “Let’s see how high 
you can jump.” 

“Ts that part of warrior training?” Mintkit squeaked. 

“Well, not exactly,” Yellowfang admitted. 

“In that case,” Marigoldkit mewed with a polite dip 
of her head, “we’ll keep practicing our battle moves, 
thanks. Brokenstar said it’s important to be as strong 
as we can before he gives us our mentors.” 

Yellowfang recalled her own early days in the 
nursery, playing with Nutwhisker and Rowanberry. 
Attacking the elders’ tails was the closest we got to 
fighting. Yes, we pretended they were WindClan 
invaders, but we knew real battles were moons 
away. These kits could be fighting to their deaths 
by the end of greenleaf. 

She watched, sick at heart, as Marigoldkit went 
back to her moss and Mintkit to his feather. 

A few moments later Brightflower emerged from 
the nursery and came to stand by Yellowfang’s side. 
“They’re so strong already,’ she meowed, though 
Yellowfang could see a flicker of fear in her eyes. 


“They’re certainly lively,’ Yellowfang commented. 
“They must keep you busy!” 

Her mother nodded. “Pll be joining the elders as 
soon as they leave the nursery,” she revealed. “It 
seems so strange, not to have them around,” she 
added, “though I’d never say so in front of 
Brokenstar.” 

“They should be here,” Yellowfang meowed. 

Brightflower gave a swift glance around. “Don’t let 
our leader hear you say that!” 

Yellowfang twitched her ears. “Well, the elders 
seem happy enough in their new home.” It was hard to 
force out the words when she thought of that tiny 
hollow in the marshes. “Nightpelt hunts for them.” 

“And [ll help him when I go to join them,” 
Brightflower declared. “I’m looking forward to the 
quiet. I’m feeling my age with these kits around!” 

A pulse of shock ran through Yellowfang. 
“Brightflower, you’re not old!” 

“Yes, I am,” her mother purred gently. “And so are 
you, Yellowfang. None of us survives forever.” 

Yellowfang looked around at her Clanmates, from 
the traces of gray on her mother’s muzzle to the kits 


wrestling with moss and feathers beside her. Suddenly 
everything seemed as fragile as a moth’s wing, as 
fleeting as a drop of dew. 

Nothing survives forever—not even ShadowClan, 
with Brokenstar as our leader. 





CHAPTER 39 
w& 


“ 
“Yellowfang, wake up!” 

Something was prodding Yellowfang in her flank. 
She opened her eyes to see Brightflower standing 
beside her nest. Her fur was fluffed up and her eyes 
wide with anxiety. 

“What’s the matter?” Yellowfang leaped to her 
paws. “Ts it the kits?” 

Brightflower nodded. “They’re not in the nursery. 
They were with me when I went to sleep, but now 
they’re gone!” 

“We’ll find them,” Yellowfang mewed reassuringly. 

She looked for Runningnose to ask him for help in 
the search, but he was deeply asleep after the long 
journey from the Moonstone, and she decided not to 
disturb him unless she had to. Stifling a trickle of fear, 
Yellowfang led the way out into the clearing. The night 
was dark, the moon showing fitfully in a sky ribbed 
with cloud. “Let’s try the apprentices’ den first,’ she 
suggested. 

But when she and Brightflower peered into the den 


they saw only the four remaining cats in training, 
curled up and snuffling gently in their sleep. 

“The warriors’ den?” Brightflower guessed. 

When she poked her head through the branches, 
Yellowfang saw nothing but dark lumps of slumbering 
fur. Thrusting herself completely inside, she roused 
Clawface, who was nearest, with a sharp tug on his 
tail. 

“Ow! Get off!” Clawface looked up sleepily. “Oh, 
it’s you, Yellowfang. What do you want?” 

“Have you seen Brightflower’s kits?” Yellowfang 
asked. “They’ve gone missing.” 

Clawface shook his head. “They’re not here. But 
maybe they snuck out with the night patrol. They 
talked about wanting to join it tonight, but I told them 
they had to wait until they were apprenticed.” 

Like they’d listen! Yellowfang thought. “Thanks, 
Clawface,” she mewed. 

The gray tom curled up again as Yellowfang left the 
den and joined Brightflower, who was pacing back and 
forth across the clearing. Her expression cleared as 
Yellowfang told her what Clawface had said. 

“That must be where they are!” Brightflower 


exclaimed. “They should be fine if they’re with their 
Clanmates.” 

As she spoke, the night patrol pushed its way back 
into the camp: Blackfoot leading Russetfur and 
Wolfstep. Mintkit and Marigoldkit weren’t with them. 
Yellowfang and Brightflower bounded over. 

“Have you seen my kits?” Brightflower demanded 
as she halted in front of Blackfoot. 

Blackfoot shook his head. “No. Should we have?” 

Brightflower let out a wail of terror, and Yellowfang 
rested her tail-tip on her shoulder. “They’re missing. 
Clawface thought they might have gone with you,” she 
explained to Blackfoot. 

“We’ll go out at once to look for them,” Russetfur 
meowed, her voice full of concern. 

Wolfstep nodded. “Do you think they tried to follow 
us, but couldn’t keep up?” 

“It’s possible,” Yellowfang admitted. 

“We went through the trees as far as the border 
with the unknown forest,” Russetfur told her, “and then 
along by the Twolegplace and back here.” 

“Great StarClan!” Brightflower exclaimed, flattening 
her ears in distress. “They could have been stolen by 


Twolegs!” 

“They’re probably just lost,” Yellowfang calmed her. 
“They’re only half a moon old; they couldn’t have 
gotten far. PI follow the patrols route and look for 
them. And meanwhile,’ she added, knowing how 
important it was to keep Brightflower occupied, “you 
should give the rest of the camp a really thorough 
search. Russetfur, perhaps you could help?” She 
looked meaningfully at the warrior, trying to indicate 
that Brightflower needed some company. 

“Of course,” Russetfur meowed. “Let me know if 
you want me to search the forest later on.” 

Yellowfang hurried out of the camp and picked up 
the trail of the night patrol The cloud cover had 
thickened and the moon was scarcely visible. It was 
hard going through the trees and undergrowth, and 
Yellowfang concentrated so as not to lose the scent. 
Then she heard the bark of a fox from somewhere up 
ahead, and quickened her pace. J hope it hasn t found 
the kits.... 

Another harsh tang mixed with the traces of the 
night patrol. Yellowfang’s heart started to pound and 
she broke into a run, her nostrils flared with the scent 


of blood. The night patrol had reported no skirmishes 
on any of the boundaries, yet somewhere a cat was 
badly hurt. Yellowfang’s fur stood on end as all her 
instincts pricked with alarm. Something is terribly 
wrong! 

She burst through a line of trees and stumbled to a 
halt in a small clearing. Panting hard, she gazed around 
and saw a thin shaft of starlight breaking through the 
branches. It rested on two tiny heaps of fur, as still as 
rocks in the cold air. One tortoiseshell, one gray, both 
ripped apart by the jaws of some cruel creature who 
couldn’t even be bothered to stay and eat his prey. 

Oh, no! StarClan, not even you could be this 
cruel. 

Yellowfang bounded across the clearing to where 
the little bodies lay, their blood spattering the ferns. She 
bent over them, desperately checking for signs of life, 
and opened herself to their pain in the hope that it 
would prove they were still alive. But she was too 
distraught to be sure if she could feel the flicker that 
would tell her there was still hope. 

Desperately summoning her medicine cat skills, 
Yellowfang looked around for anything nearby that she 


could treat them with or pad their wounds. But the 
clearing was barren: no sign of a scrap of cobweb or 
marigold leaf. Clinging to the last traces of hope, 
Yellowfang curled her body around the kits, licking 
their stil-warm fur. 

Come on, little ones! Live! 

Crashing paw steps disturbed her, followed by a 
ghastly wail. Yellowfang looked up to see Brightflower 
standing on the other side of the clearing, staring in 
horror. Brokenstar was just behind her. 

“What happened?” Brokenstar demanded. 

“I found them like this,’ Yellowfang replied, her 
voice shaking. “It must have been a fox!” 

Brokenstar sniffed the air. “I don’t smell any fox.” 

“It was here!” Yellowfang insisted. “I heard it just 
before I found them.” 

Brightflower padded forward and gazed down at the 
two tiny shapes. “My babies, my babies!” 

Yellowfang stared at Brokenstar. “You need to look 
for the fox! It could be close by!” 

“Yellowfang, I can only pick up your scent,” 
Brokenstar mewed quietly. “Come back to the camp 
with me.” 


“What about the fox?” 

“There is no fox here,’ Brokenstar growled. 
“Come.” 

Dazed, Yellowfang rose to her paws. Her fur was 
sticky with blood and her mouth was full of the taste of 
death. ‘TIl carry one of the kits,” she mewed. 

‘No,” Brokenstar ordered. “Ill send warriors to 
bring them. Brightflower, you wait here.” 

Brightflower took Yellowfang’s place and folded her 
body around her kits. She didn’t look up at Yellowfang 
or Brokenstar as they left the clearing. 

Brokenstar padded beside Yellowfang as they 
returned to camp. The moon was setting by the time 
they reached the clearing. The sky was gray with 
cloud and there was a tang of rain in the air. All the 
cats were out of their dens, busily searching for the 
kits. Boulder was the first to notice Yellowfang, and 
halted, staring at her. Gradually the other cats realized 
that she had returned and stopped what they were 
doing, until Yellowfang felt as if the gaze of every cat 
in the Clan was fixed on her. She could read shock in 
their eyes, and a flicker of unease jomed the grief she 
felt for Mintkit and Marigoldktt. 


“Russetfur. Frogtail.” Brokenstar’s voice cut into 
the silence, and he beckoned with his tail. “Follow our 
scent trail, and bring Brightflower and the kits back to 
the camp.” 

He waited until the two warriors had left, then 
crossed to the foot of the Clanrock, jerking his head for 
Yellowfang to follow him. “Come closer,” he ordered 
the Clan, as if he was too distressed to leap onto the 
rock and summon them formally. 

As the Clan gathered, silent and apprehensive, 
Runningnose bounded across to Yellowfang from the 
medicine cats’ den. “Are you hurt?” he gasped. “All 
this blood ...” 

“It’s not my blood,’ Yellowfang choked out, as if 
telling him would make the terrible truth more real. 
“It’s ... the kits’.” 

A stunned murmur rose from the Clan, and 
Brackenfoot stepped forward, his eyes huge with fear. 
“Tell me what happened.” 

“I found them in a clearing—” Yellowfang began. 

Brokenstar cut her off with a lash of his tail. 
“Yellowfang went to look for the kits after 
Brightflower told her they were missing,’ he 


announced. “When I found her, she was with the kits, 
but they were both dead. Yellowfang claimed they had 
been attacked by a fox.” 

“A fox!” Newtspeck exclaimed, her eyes wide with 
fear. “On our territory? It could kill us all!” 

“We have to send out a patrol to track it,’ Blackfoot 
meowed. 

More fearful cries came from the Clan, but 
Brokenstar silenced them with a flick of his tail. “T 
found no trace of fox anywhere near the kits.” 

“Then how did they die?” Stumpytail asked. 

“Yes, how?” Deerfoot echoed. “We have to know!” 

Brokenstar took a step away from Yellowfang. 
“Only one cat knows the truth,” he meowed softly. 

Brackenfoot stared at Yellowfang in horror. “Did 
you kill them?” he whispered. 

“Of course not!” Yellowfang shrieked. In her worst 
nightmares she had never imagined that her own father 
could accuse her of something so terrible. “They were 
dead when I found them!” 

“We have no reason to believe that Yellowfang 
killed them,” Brokenstar put in. “Why would she?” 

“She’s been under a lot of strain recently, with all 


the battles,” Wolfstep pointed out. 

“She said she didn’t want to treat my scratch 
because it was a waste of herbs!” Dawnpaw added 
with an indignant flourish of her tail. 

“Yes, she hasn’t been herself lately,’ Tangleburr 
meowed. “I asked her about a pain in my belly, and she 
practically bit my ear off.” 

“But then gave you a juniper berry to take the pain 
away,” Runningnose reminded her, but no cat seemed 
to be listening. 

“She acts like the whole Clan is a nuisance,” 
Cinderfur sniffed. 

Newtspeck stepped forward with a furious hiss. 
“Are you seriously suggesting that Yellowfang would 
kill our own kits so she wouldn’t have to treat their 
injuries later on?” 

There was a deafening silence as Yellowfang 
waited for her Clanmates to realize that Newtspeck 
was speaking sense. It was broken by a wail from 
Brightflower, who had just entered the camp. 
Russetfur and Frogtail followed, each carrying a pitiful 
broken scrap of fur. 

Brightflower plunged at Yellowfang with a snarl. 


“Did you kill my kits?” 

Yellowfang was frozen to the spot with horror. 
Before she could react, Runningnose leaped in front of 
her. “Don’t be ridiculous, Brightflower!” he yowled. 

Brokenstar held up his tail for silence. “We will 
never know what happened tonight,” he meowed, his 
voice cracking with sorrow. “All we know is that two 
young kits, two promising warriors, are dead, and that 
Yellowfang was with them. Yellowfang, as our 
medicine cat, there must have been something you 
could have done.” 

“I tried, but—” Yellowfang began to protest. 

Brokenstar ignored her. “Russetfur,’ he continued, 
“is there any evidence that she treated their wounds?” 

Reluctantly Russetfur shook her head. “No, 
Brokenstar.” 

“They were dead when I found them!” Yellowfang 
exclaimed. Her head was whirling. She couldn’t 
believe that this was happening to her, that any cat 
would take these crazy accusations seriously. 

“Frogtail, were their bodies cold?” Brokenstar went 
on. 

Frogtail ducked his head. “Well ... no.” 


Yowls of shock and hatred rose from the Clan. 
Rowanberry and Nutwhisker both pushed through the 
crowd to stand beside Yellowfang, along with 
Runningnose and Newtspeck, but their protests went 
unheard. Yellowfang knew that there was too much 
suspicion, too much grief over these latest deaths to 
expect a rational response from her Clanmates. 

Brokenstar turned to face her. “Yellowfang, you 
cannot stay here. For your own safety, you must 
leave.” 

“You mean, j-jom the elders?” Yellowfang 
stammered. J could be at peace there, and still help 
my Clanmates if they came to me. 

“No.” Brokenstar curled his lip, showing a hint of 
sharp yellow teeth. “I cannot protect you within this 
territory after what has happened. Your Clanmates are 
too angry over these deaths. You have to understand 
that I don’t want to do this, but I have no choice. I 
must banish you from ShadowClan.” 

At his words everything became clear to 
Yellowfang, clear as spring water gurgling from a rock. 
She had threatened to speak with StarClan about what 
Brokenstar was doing, get him stripped of his 


leadership and his nine lives. And this was his way of 
making sure that never happened. She had made 
herself a problem—and he was solving tt. 

Yellowfang took a deep breath. Brokenstar had 
scared this Clan into silence for too long. Fury 
overwhelmed her fear. If she held her tongue any 
longer she betrayed all her Clanmates, including the 
memory of the dead kits. “This is exactly what you 
wanted!” she hissed. “You couldn’t have known that 
those kits would die, but this is your perfect opportunity 
to get rid of me! I am the ShadowClan medicine cat! 
This is where I belong!” 

Blackfoot stepped forward, his voice weighty and 
regretful. “Not anymore, Yellowfang. Come, I’ll escort 
you to the border.” 

He reached out his tail to rest it on her shoulder, but 
Yellowfang batted it away. “Get off me!” she snapped. 
‘TIl find my own way!” 

Still dazed, she stumbled toward the entrance; her 
Clanmates parted to let her go. 

‘I’m so sorry!” Runningnose gasped, bounding 
alongside her. “I'll prove it was a fox! You'll be back 
soon! Come to the next half-moon Gathering!” 


Yellowfang stopped at the entrance and looked at 
him. “Runningnose,” she meowed, “you have been a 
dear and loyal friend, but I cannot stay here. Not as 
long as Brokenstar rules. This is not the ShadowClan I 
pledged to serve.” Glancing at the cats clustered 
around the Clanrock, she added, “They are lucky to 
have you. May StarClan light your path, always.” 

“But, Yellowfang—”’ Runningnose wailed. 

Yellowfang couldn’t listen to him anymore. Turning, 
she plunged through the brambles and staggered out of 
the camp. 





CHAPTER 40 
w& 


“ 
Half-mad with grief and fury, Yellowfang stumbled 
across the territory, howling her rage to the stars. 
Finding herself at the edge of the marshes, she turned 
her paw steps away from the elders’ den. 

I cant unleash this disaster on them. They'll find 
out soon enough. 

At last the entrance to the tunnel that led to 
Fourtrees loomed up in front of Yellowfang. Forcing 
her paws to carry her forward, she padded into the 
echoing darkness. Water dripped around her, sounding 
unnaturally loud, and her paws slipped on the slimy 
tunnel floor. 

After what seemed like seasons, Yellowfang spotted 
a pale gap in front of her and clambered out of the 
tunnel to see that dawn light was seeping into the sky. 
Her limbs heavy with exhaustion, she staggered across 
the last few fox-lengths of ShadowClan territory, and 
half scrambled, half fell into the hollow where she 
came to rest in the shelter of the spiky branches of a 
holly bush. 


Yellowfang lay in the undergrowth while the 
morning light strengthened into a chilly, gray day. Soon 
a thin rain began to fall, but Yellowfang had no energy 
to find better shelter. She tried to sleep, but the heavy 
branches of the four great oaks loomed over her, 
rustling in a threatening way that sounded more like 
thunder. Yellowfang stayed where she was, too 
stunned to think about moving or eating, the harsh 
words of her Clanmates echoing over and over again 
in her mind. StarClan, can you see me? Do you 
know what Brokenstar has done now? There was 
no reply, no sign that her ancestors had even heard. If 
Yellowfang had felt alone before, that was nothing 
compared to her solitude now. 

Eventually the dead holly leaves underneath her 
began to prickle through her ungroomed pelt, and she 
hauled herself to her paws. Night had fallen again, with 
barely a hint of starlight to pick out the four giant oaks. 
Not that it mattered to Yellowfang. If StarClan had 
given up on her, Fourtrees meant nothing except a 
place where too many cats came to crow about hollow 
victories every full moon. She started walking, not 
because she had anywhere to go, but because she was 


tired of staying still. Her belly growled but she felt no 
hunger. Maybe she would eat again one day; maybe 
not. She couldn’t be bothered to care. 

She thought of Marigoldkit and Mintkit, cold and still 
in the shadows. She hoped they were in StarClan now, 
playing with her daughters, being cared for by 
Silverflame. They were better off there than in 
ShadowClan, where Brokenstar seemed to delight in 
sending cats to die before they were old enough to 
catch their own prey. But that didn’t stop Yellowfang’s 
dreadful feelings of guilt that she hadn’t been able to 
help them. 

Oh Marigoldkit, Mintkit, I’m so sorry you had to 
die alone and scared. I would have saved you if 1 
could, I promise. 

Yellowfang stumbled up the side of the hollow and 
through a line of ferns that caught in her tangled pelt. 
She was dimly aware of scent markers— 
ThunderClan’s, she thought—but she couldn’t bring 
herself to care. She was a medicine cat; she could go 
wherever she wanted. Or if she wasn’t a medicine cat, 
she would be chased off like a rogue, and be hungry 
and lost somewhere else. It didn’t matter. 


Her legs started to tremble with tiredness, even 
though she had barely traveled out of sight of 
Fourtrees. She pushed her way into a clump of ferns 
and lay down beneath the arching green fronds. The 
horror of being exiled, her grief for the kits, and her 
exhaustion sapped her strength so that she couldn’t 
block her senses anymore. Her body convulsed as she 
felt the pain of her Clanmates’ wounds far away, the 
agony of a vixen giving birth somewhere nearby, the 
flash of fear and anguish as a mouse fell prey to a 
ThunderClan warrior’s paws. The suffering of every 
creature in the forest flooded through her limbs and 
assailed her heart. 

At last, worn out, she slept. 

Yellowfang was never sure how many sunrises she 
saw from under the ferns, drifting in and out of 
consciousness. She knew that she ought to hunt, to 
groom herself, and to find shelter as far as possible 
from these StarClan-cursed Clans, but for a long time 
she couldn’t rouse herself to do anything. 

Eventually she became aware of sunlight filtering 
through the ferns, warming her pelt, reminding her of 
times when she had been happy in her home among 


the pine trees. A slow-burning anger began to replace 
her grief. My Clan banished me, and I have done 
nothing wrong! I will not give in! 

A trickle of strength returned to her limbs. She could 
scent water, and hear the gurgling of a nearby stream. 
I need to drink, hunt, and get off ThunderClan 
territory. 

But as she forced herself to her paws, she heard a 
faint growl from the direction of the stream. Peering 
out from among the ferns, she spotted a young cat with 
a flame-colored coat heading straight for her in the 
hunter’s crouch, as if he was stalking prey. Yellowfang 
realized that the wind must have carried her scent 
straight toward him. 

Fox dung! A ThunderClan cat would have to 
turn up just now. He’ bound to stop me if I try to 
escape. Yellowfang unsheathed her claws, sinking 
them into the soft forest floor. PU have to fight my 
way out. 

Yellowfang eased herself from the ferns and crept 
into the shelter of a clump of bushes. Now the breeze 
worked to her advantage, and she caught the reek of 
ThunderClan. The young cat paused, glancing around 


him with a puzzled expression. He sniffed the air again, 
as if he couldn’t work out what had happened to the 
scent. 

Prey doesn t keep still, mouse-brain! 

Letting out a snarl, Yellowfang burst out of the 
bushes and slammed into the orange tom, knocking him 
sideways. He let out a screech of shock. Yellowfang 
felt a savage delight as her paws clamped down on his 
shoulders and her jaws closed on the back of his neck. 

“Murr-oww!” the young cat grunted. For a 
heartbeat he struggled to free himself, then suddenly 
relaxed his muscles with a howl of alarm and went 
limp. 

Still pmning him down with her paws, Yellowfang 
opened her jaws and let out a yowl of triumph. “Ah, a 
puny apprentice!” she hissed. “Easy prey for 
Yellowfang.” 

She bit down once more on the ThunderClan cat’s 
neck, but at the same moment he surged upward, 
exploding with all the strength of a powerful young 
body. Yellowfang let out a snarl of surprise as she was 
thrown clear, tumbling back into a gorse bush. 

The tom steadied himself on his paws and gave his 


pelt a shake. “Not such easy prey, huh?” he meowed. 

Yellowfang ripped herself free from the prickly 
branches, hissing curses at the thorns. “Not bad, young 
apprentice!” she spat back. “But you’ ll need to do a lot 
better!” 

The young cat puffed out his chest. “You’re in 
ThunderClan’s hunting ground. Move on!” 

“Who’s going to make me?” Yellowfang curled her 
lip. “I will hunt. Then I will leave. Or maybe PI just 
stay a while....” 

“Enough talk,” the young cat flashed back at her. 

Yellowfang sensed a change in him. She could tell 
that he was eager to fight, to defend his territory and 
protect his Clan. For an apprentice, he has courage, 
she thought with the first flicker of respect. PU need 
to use a little cunning here.... 

Dipping her head, breaking eye contact with the 
young tom, she began to back off. “No need to be 
hasty now,” she purred in a silky tone. 

The apprentice wasn’t deceived. He let out a 
furious growl and leaped forward. Yellowfang sprang 
forward to meet him, digging her claws into his 
shoulders, and they rolled over together in a whirl of 


claws and teeth. Breaking free, Yellowfang reared up 
on her hind legs and lunged at the young tom’s head. 
To her frustration, he jerked away just in time and her 
teeth closed on empty air a mouse-length from his ear. 

Before Yellowfang could lash out again, the 
apprentice swiped at her with one paw, dealing her a 
hard blow over her ear. Stunned, she dropped to all 
fours, shaking her head to clear it. As she tried to 
recover, her opponent flung himself forward and 
clamped his jaws tight on her back leg. 

Yellowfang screeched, whipping around to snap at 
the young tom’s tail. Satisfaction flooded through her 
as her teeth connected. 

The apprentice ripped his tail from her grip and 
lashed it in rage. His green eyes gleamed with fury. 
Yellowfang crouched for a fresh attack, but she could 
feel her strength ebbing. Her breath wheezed, and 
hunger gnawed at her like a live rat in her belly. 

For a heartbeat the flame-colored cat hesitated. 
Yellowfang lunged, tryng to reach up onto his 
shoulders and get a killing grip, but now she was 
hampered by her wounded leg. 

“Get off!” the apprentice snapped, arching his back 


in an effort to throw her off. 

But Yellowfang managed to dig her claws in and 
held on tight, using her greater weight to force the 
young cat to the ground. He twisted as he tried to 
avoid her thrashing hind legs; once more they rolled 
over together, biting and snapping. 

Yellowfang knew that she had lost her chance to 
win. Her hind legs would hardly support her and she 
loosened her grip on the young tom. 

“Had enough yet?” he growled. 

“Never!” Yellowfang spat. But her injured leg gave 
way and she slumped to the ground. Glaring at the 
apprentice, she hissed, “If I wasn’t so hungry and tired, 
I’d have shredded you into mouse-dust.” Her mouth 
twisted in pain. “Finish me off. I won’t stop you.” 

And then it will be over. No more pain, no more 
struggle ... 

The young tom hesitated, something in his eyes that 
Yellowfang couldn’t read. 

“What are you waiting for?” Yellowfang taunted 
him. “You’re dithering like a kittypet!” 

Rage flared in his green eyes. “I’m an apprentice 
warrior of ThunderClan!” he snarled. 


Yellowfang narrowed her eyes. She had seen the 
cat flinch at her words, and she knew she had hit a 
nerve. “Ha,” she snorted. “Don’t tell me ThunderClan 
are so desperate they have to recruit kittypets now?” 

“ThunderClan are not desperate!” the tom hissed. 

“Prove it, then!” Yellowfang challenged him. “Act 
like a warrior and finish me off. You'll be doing me a 
favor.” 

The apprentice stared at her. She saw his muscles 
relax as a spark of curiosity woke in his eyes. “You 
seem in an awful hurry to die,” he meowed. 

“Yeah? Well, that’s my business, mouse-fodder,” 
Yellowfang snapped. “What’s your problem, kitty? Are 
you trying to talk me to death?” 

But her hunger and exhaustion were sapping her 
strength with every heartbeat. She knew she could do 
no more; she was at this cat’s mercy. Has it really 
come to this, StarClan? Is this the end I deserve? 

“Wait here,” the young cat ordered at last. 

“Are you kidding, kitty? I’m going nowhere,” 
Yellowfang grunted, limping toward a patch of soft 
heather. She flopped down and began licking her leg 
wound. 


The flame-colored tom turned, then glanced back at 
her over his shoulder with a hiss of exasperation 
before heading for the trees. Yellowfang watched him 
go. She still felt numb with shock, well past caring 
what would happen to her. Will ThunderClan keep 
me a prisoner, or send me back to ShadowClan? 
she wondered. She knew she didn’t have the strength 
to get off ThunderClan territory before she was found 
by the ginger tom or some other patrol. Did this mean 
that she was giving up without a fight? 

And yet there was something about that bold little 
apprentice, some spark that reminded her of herself 
when she was young. “Not that I’d let him know it, 
arrogant mouse-brain,” she muttered. 

She would wait for him to come back. J have no 
Clan now, no destiny, no place to be, and no duties 
to tend to. Let the future bring what it will. 

Yellowfang sighed, but a quiet determination began 
to grow inside her. Somehow, she felt less bleak, less 
hopeless. This wasn’t her home, but the heavy- 
branched trees and whispering ferns promised more 
peace than she had known for a while. She didn’t 
know any ThunderClan cats well—she didn’t know 


any cats well, apart from Runningnose, perhaps—but 
Brokenstar had denounced them for being too full of 
pity and soft on their enemies. So perhaps they would 
view her with kindness, a refugee from the troubled 
Clan across the border. Besides, whatever they did to 
her could not be worse than what her own son had 
done. 

My son! Yellowfang drew a long, quivering breath. 
She could not leave the forest. Even if she had to seek 
shelter in a hostile Clan, there was still work for her to 
do, questions that only she could answer. Vengeance 
that she had to seek on behalf of Marigoldkit and 
Mintkit, Cloudpelt and the banished elders, all the cats 
whom Brokenstar had destroyed with his ambition. 
Alone, hungry, crushed by betrayal, Yellowfang made 
the most solemn vow of her life. 

I know my path will cross with Brokenstar'’s 
again. And one day I will do something to stop this 
tide of fire and blood that he has unleashed on the 
forest. 


YELLOWFANG’S 
EXCLUSIVE MANGA 
ADVENTURE 


KEEP READING FOR AN EXCLUSIVE MANGA 
ADVENTURE... 





CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ART BY 
JAMES L. BARRY 





BAT THESE BERRES, ` 
AND THE PAN WEL GO 





OF COURSE I LET CINDERPAW „PLUS IT GIVES ME NORE TWE 
GO AHEAD WITH SMALLEAR'S: TO MYSELF, TO COME FLALY BACK 
TREATMENT. IT MIGHT WORK... FROM THE DREAM. 


CINDERPAW 
SEEMS TO BE DONG 
WELL AS APPRENTICE 

NEDOINE 


WELL, THAT'S.. AN OOO THNG 
FOR PREHEART TO GAY. 


BUT THE CLAN WEL ONLY BE I'D Gay 
STRONGER WITH TWO MEDICINE CINOERPAW G WAITED 
CATS. YOU KNOW THAT. LONG ENOUGH 





TM ASHAMED TO ADMET IT TO 
ae eee PROGHTENED. IF T 


TALK TO STARCLAN WAAT WEL MY 





YELLOWFANG, I.. 
I WON'T ASK WHAT YOU OD 
NOT © YOU DONT WANT 
10 TELL ME 


BUT I REFUSE 
TO BELEVE YOU OD 
ANYTHING TO HARM 

THUNDERCLAN! 


TWO Dart LATER, 
WE SET OUT ON OUR 
JOURNEY. 


gr 


WE CROSS WINCCLAN'S 
MOOR 


wir 


AND OMB UP TO 
THE HGHSTONES WITHOUT 
ANY TROUBLE 


THE OTHER CLANS’ 
NEDIOINE CATS ARGUE AT 
THE APPOMTED TWE 


MUDFUR FROM RIVERCLAN .. 
BARKFACE FROM WINDCLAN 
MY OCD APPRENTICE. RUNNINGNOSE, 
PROM SHADOWCLAN. 





THE TUNNEL DOWN TO THE 
MOONSTONE FEELS LONGER 
SONE 


THE MOONSTONE 
$ MORE BEAUTIFUL 
THAN EVER. 











WHAT DO YOU WANT 
THE WORDS SUP OUT NOW, MOLEPELT? 
OF MY MOUTH BEFORE RIVERS OF BLOCO CANE TO 
I CAN THINK TWICE SHADOW CLAN, SUGT Ab I WOLD NEVER GLOAT, 
YOU PROMISED. YELLOWFENG. SHADONCAN 
SÈ WAS MY CLAN ONCE, JUST AS 
IT WAS ONCE YOURS. 
HAVE YOU COME 
TO AMT? 


TELL YOU THAT I AM 
TRAY SORRY ABOUT 
BROKENTAR 


WHAT DO YOU MEAN. 
WHY WOULD YOU. 


YOU SUFFERED MOST 
BECAUSE YOU GAVE BIRTH TO 
HIM, BUT THERE WAS NOTHING 
YOU COULD HAVE DONE TO 
CHANG DEST: 
WHY ARE YOU CHANGE HIS DESTINY. 
SORRY? HOW CAN 


ANYTHING TO GO WITH 
BARMENA BE FOUR 
FALLT? 


T CAN'T..CAN'T BELIEVE 


WHAT I'VE JUST HEARD... 


TVE ONLY JUST BEGUN TO 
UNDERSTAND HG WOROG FULLY 
WHEN HE STARTE TO LEAVE 


HE HAD A CHOICE OF 
WHICH PATH TO FOLLOW. 
AND HE CHOSE THE ONE 
THAT LED TO BLOOUSHED 

AND MISERY. 








T TURN THE WORD OVER IN MY 
HEAD. WONDERFUL. AND I THINK 
SHE'S RIGHT. THE ANCESTORS 
UNDERSTAND. 





ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a 
fascination with the ferocity of the natural world. In 
addition to having great respect for nature in all its 
forms, Erin enjoys creating rich mythical explanations 
for animal behavior. She is also the author of the 
Survivors series and the bestselling Seekers series. 


Visit §www.AuthorTracker.com for exclusive 
information on your favorite HarperCollins authors and 
artists. 





ENTER THE WORLD OF 


Warriors 
Sinister perils threaten the four warrior Clans. Into the midst of this turmoil 


comes Rusty, an ordinary housecat, who may just be the bravest of them all. 


Download the 
free Warriors app at 
www. warrlorcats.com 


Warriors: The New Prophecy 
Follow the next generation of heroic cats as they set off 


on a quest to save the Clans from destruction 


All Warrines, Seekers, 
and Survivors books are 
ble as ebooks 
LarperCallins (e) Nino avarlibie ansbeatprd from Harper? håjren t Sindas 
HARPER 


aa me ar mepa ae A aa 





Warriors: Power of Three 
Firestar’s grandchikiren begin their training as warrior cats 
Prophecy foretells that they will hold more power than any cats before them. 


Warriors: Omen of the Stars 
Which ThunderClan apprentice will complete the prophecy thar 
foretells that three Clanmates hold the future of the Clans in their paws? 





ROS 


Ar Ee A are eer 








Delve Deeper into the Clans 





HARPER 


AE Oe Farle meet 








The New York Times bestselling series SEENERS 


‘Three young bears... one destiny. Discover the fate that awaits them on their adventure. 








SEEKERS || SEEKERS 
pg 


The stakes 
are higher 
than ever 
as the bears 
search for a 
way home. 


Anew series from ERIN HUNTER 


» Survivors #1: 


The Empty City 
www.survivorsdogs.com 


When the Big Growl strikes, Lucky must decide: Is 


he a Lone Dog? Or does he belong with a Pack? 


HARPER 





ALSO BY ERIN HUNTER 


ARRORS 


Book One: Into the Wild 
Book Two: Fire and Ice 
Book Three: Forest of Secrets 
Book Four: Rising Storm 
Book Five: A Dangerous Path 
Book Six: The Darkest Hour 


THE NEW PROPHECY 
Book One: Midnight 
Book Two: Moonrise 

Book Three: Dawn 
Book Four: Starlight 
Book Five: Twilight 
Book Six: Sunset 


POWER OF THREE 
Book One: The Sight 


Book Two: Dark River 
Book Three: Outcast 
Book Four: Eclipse 

Book Five: Long Shadows 
Book Six: Sunrise 


OMEN OF THE STARS 
Book One: The Fourth Apprentice 
Book Two: Fading Echoes 
Book Three: Night Whispers 
Book Four: Sign of the Moon 
Book Five: The Forgotten Warrior 
Book Six: The Last Hope 


EXPLORE TbHE 


0 


WORLO 


Warriors Super Edition: Firestar s Quest 
Warriors Super Edition: Bluestar s Prophecy 
Warriors Super Edition: SkyClan s Destiny 
Warriors Super Edition: Crookedstar s Promise 
Warriors Field Guide: Secrets of the Clans 


Warriors: Cats of the Clans 
Warriors: Code of the Clans 
Warriors: Battles of the Clans 
Warriors: Enter the Clans 


MANGA 
The Lost Warrior 
Warrior s Refuge 
Warrior s Return 
The Rise of Scourge 
Tigerstar and Sasha #1: Into the Woods 
Tigerstar and Sasha #2: Escape from the Forest 
Tigerstar and Sasha #3: Return to the Clans 
Ravenpaw’s Path #1: Shattered Peace 
Ravenpaw’s Path #2: A Clan in Need 
Ravenpaw ss Path #3: The Heart of a Warrior 
SkyClan and the Stranger #1: The Rescue 
SkyClan and the Stranger #2: Beyond the Code 
SkyClan and the Stranger #3: After the Flood 


Also by Erin Hunter 


SEEKERS, 


Book One: The Quest Begins 
Book Two: Great Bear Lake 
Book Three: Smoke Mountain 
Book Four: The Last Wilderness 
Book Five: Fire in the Sky 
Book Six: Spirits in the Stars 


RETURN TO THE WILD 
Book One: Island of Shadows 
Book Two: The Melting Sea 


MANGA 


Toklo s Story 
Kallik s Adventure 


SURVIVORS 


Book One: The Empty City 


CREDITS 


Cover art © 2012 by Wayne McLoughlin 
Cover design by Megan Stitt 


COPYRIGHT 


YELLOWFANG’ S SECRET 
Copyright © 2012 by Working Partners Limited 
Series created by Working Partners Limited 
Manga text copyright © 2012 by Working Partners Limited 
Manga art copyright © 2012 by HarperCollins Publishers 
Allrights reserved under Intemational and Pan-American 
Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, 
you have been granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable 
right to access and read the text of this e-book on-screen. 
No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, 
downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, or stored in or 
introduced into any information storage and retrieval 
system, in any formor by any means, whether electronic or 
mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented, without the 
express written permission of HarperCollins e-books. 
www.harpercollinschildrens.com 





Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Hunter, Erin. 
Yellowfang’s secret / Erin Hunter—Ist ed. 
p. cm—(Warriors, super edition ; bk. 5) 
Summary: Yellowfang is a loyal ShadowClan cat through 
and through—but she is haunted by a dark secret from her 
past that could threaten the future of the warrior Clans 


ISBN 978-0-06-208214-5 (trade bdg.}—ISBN 978-0-06- 
208215-2 (lib. bdg.) 
EPub Edition © JULY 2012 ISBN: 9780062082176 
Version 08162013 
[1. Cats—Fiction. 2. Prophecies—Fiction. 3. Adventure 
and adventurers—Fiction. 4. Fantasy.] I. Title. 


PZ7.H916625 Yel 2012 2012919987 
Fi de23 CIP 
[Fic]}—de'! AC 


=Ce_ljeeERenwwuRuUNRe~7~7~79*oO0O0D eS EO eee 


1213141516 LP/RRDH 10987654321 
ge 
FIRST EDITION 


ABOUT THE PUBLISHER 


Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 
http://www.harpercollins.com.au/ebooks 


Canada 
HarperCollins Canada 
2 Bloor Street East - 20th Floor 
Toronto, ON, M4W, 1A8, Canada 
http://www.harpercollins.ca 


New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers (New Zealand) Limited 
P.O. Box 1 
Auckland, New Zealand 
http://www. harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
77-85 Fulham Palace Road 
London, W6 8JB, UK 
http://www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
10 East 53rd Street 
New York, NY 10022 
http://www.harpercollins.com 


