THE #1 NATIONAL BESTSELLING SERIES 





STORD 





+ 


ERIN HUNTER 





SUPER EDITION 


BRAMBLESTAR’S 
STORM 


ERIN 
HUNTER 


HARPER 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers 


CONTENTS 


Special Thanks 
Dedication 
Allegiances 
Maps 


Prologue 

Chapter 1 
Chapter 2 
Chapter 3 
Chapter 4 
Chapter 5 
Chapter 6 








Back Ads 
About the Author 








Copyright 
About the Publisher 


SPECIAL THANKS 


Special thanks to Cherith Baldry 


DEDICATION 


To Akbar: Be brave and live the dream, 
and become the artist you always wanted to be. 


ALLEGIANCES 


THUNDERCLAN 


BRAMBLES TAR—dark brown tabby tom 


LEADER : 
T with amber eyes 


SQUIRRELFLIGH T—dark ginger she-cat 


DEPUTY A 
with green eyes 


JAYFEATHER—gray tabby tom with blind 


MEDICINE CATS 
blue ey es 


LEAFPO OL—light brown tabby she-cat with 
amber eyes 


WARRIORS (toms and she-cats without kits) 
GRAYS TRIPE—long-haired gray tom 
DUS TPELI—dark brown tabby tom 


SANDS TO RM—pale ginger she-cat with 
green eyes 


BRAC KENFUR—g0lden-brown tabby tom 


CLOUDTAIL—long-haired white tom with 
blue eyes 


BRIGHTHEART—white she-cat with ginger 
patches 


MILLIE—striped gray tabby she-cat with blue 
eyes 


THO RNC LAW—golden-brown tabby tom 


S PIDERLEG—long-limbed black tom with 
brown underbelly and amber eyes 


APPRENTICE, AMBERPAW (pale ginger she- 
cat) 


BIRC HFALL—light brown tabby tom 
WHITEWING— white she-cat with green eyes 


APPRENTICE, DEW PAW (gray-and-white 
tom) 


BERRYNO S E—cream-colored tom 


MO US EW HIS KER— gray-and-white tom 
CINDERHEART—gray tabby she-cat 


IVYPO O L—silver-and-white tabby she-cat 
with dark blue eyes 


APPRENTICE, SNO WPAW (white, fluffy 
tom) 


LIO NBLAZE—golden tabby tom with amber 
eyes 


DO VEWING—pale gray she-cat with blue 
eyes 


ROS EPETAL—dark cream she-cat 
PO PPYFRO S T—tortoiseshell she-cat 


APPRENTICE, LILYPAW (tortoiseshell-and- 
white she-cat) 


BRIARLIGHT—dark brown she-cat with 
sky-colored eyes, paralyzed in her 
hindquarters 


BLOSSO MFALL—tortoiseshell-and-white 


QUEENS 


ELDERS 


LEADER 


she-cat 


BUMBLES TRIPE—very pale gray tom with 
black strip es 


APPRENTICE, SEEDPAW (golden-brown she- 
cat) 


CHERRYFALL— ginger she-cat 
MO LEW HIS KER—brown-and-cream tom 
(she-cats expecting or nursing kits) 


DAIS Y—cream, long-furred cat from the 
horsep lace 


(former warriors and queens, now retired) 


PURDY—plump tabby, former loner with a 
gray muzzle 


SHADOWCLAN 


BLACKS TAR—large white tom with one jet- 
black forepaw 


DEPUTY RO WANCLAW— ginger tom 


MEDICINE CAT LITTLECLO UD— very small tabby tom 
WARRIORS CROWFROST—black-and-white tom 


TAW NYPELT—t ortoiseshell she-cat with 
green eyes 


APPRENTICE, GRASSPAW (pale brown 
tabby she-cat) 


OWLCLAW—light brown tabby tom 
SCORC HFUR—dark gray tom 
TIGERHEART—dark brown tabby tom 
FERRETC LAW—black-and-gray tom 
APPRENTICE, SPIKEPAW (dark brown tom) 
PINENO SE—black she-cat 

STO ATFUR—tortoiseshell-and-white she-cat 
POUNCETAIL—brown tabby tom 


QUEENS SNO WBIRD—pure-white she-cat 


ELDERS 


LEADER 


DEPUTY 


DAW NPELT—cream-furred she-cat 


SNAKETAIL—dark brown tom with tabby- 
striped tail 


WHITEWATER—white she-cat with long fur, 
blind in one eye 


RATSC AR—brown tom with long scar across 
his back 


O AKFUR—small brown tom 
SMO KEFO O T— black tom 


KINKFUR—tabby she-cat, with long fur that 
sticks out at all angles 


IVYTAIL—black, white, and tortoiseshell she- 
cat 


WINDCLAN 


ONES TAR—brown tabby tom 


HARES PRING—brown-and-white tom 


MEDICINE CAT 


WARRIORS 


APPRENTICE, SLIGHTPAW (black tom with 
flash of white on his chest) 


KES TRELFLIGH T— mottled gray tom 
CRO W FEATHER—dark gray tom 


APPRENTICE, FEATHERPAW (gray tabby 
she-cat) 


NIGHTC LO UD—black she-cat 
APPRENTICE, HOO TPAW (dark gray tom) 


GORSETAIL—very pale gray-and-white tom 
with blue eyes 


WEAS ELFUR—ginger tom with white paws 
LEAFTAIL—dark tabby tom, amber eyes 


APPRENTICE, O ATPAW (pale brown tabby 
tom) 


EMBERFO O T— gray tom with two dark 
paws 


HEATHERTAIL — light brown tabby she-cat 


QUEENS 


ELDERS 


LEADER 


DEPUTY 


with blue eyes 


BREEZEPELT—black tom with amber eyes 
FURZEPELT— gray -and-white she-cat 
CROUCHFOO T—ginger tom 
LARKWING—pale brown tabby she-cat 


SEDGEW HIS KER—light brown tabby she- 
cat 


WHISKERNOSE—light brown tom 


WHITETAIL— small white she-cat 


RIVERCLAN 


MISTYSTAR—gray she-cat with blue eyes 
REEDW HIS KER—black tom 


APPRENTICE, LIZARDPAW (light brown 
tom) 


MEDICINE CATS MO THWING—dap pled golden she-cat 


WARRIORS 


WILLO WSHINE—gray tabby she-cat 
MINTFUR—light gray tabby tom 

MINNO W TAIL—dark gray she-cat 
MALLO WNOSE—light brown tabby tom 


APPRENTICE, HAVENPAW (black-and-white 
she-cat) 


GRASS PELT—light brown tom 
DUS KFUR—brown tabby she-cat 


MOSSPELT-—-tortoiseshell she-cat with blue 
eyes 


APPRENTICE, PERCHPAW (gray-and-white 
she-cat) 


SHIMMERPELT—silver she-cat 
LAKEHEART—gray tabby she-cat 


HERO NWING—dark gray -and-black tom 


QUEENS ICEWING—white she-cat with blue eyes 


PETALFUR—gray-and-white she-cat 
ELDERS PO UNC EFO O T—ginger-and-white tom 
PEBBLEFO O T—mottled gray tom 


RUS HTAIL— light brown tabby tom 


CATS OUTSIDE CLANS 


SMO KY —muscular gray -and-white tom who 
lives in a barn at the horsep lace 


CO RIANDER—tortoiseshell-and-white she- 
cat who lives with smoky 


























PROLOGUE 
> 


S 


Firestar brushed through the long grass beneath the 
trees and drank in the warm scents of prey. Sunlight 
sliced between the branches, casting dapples onto his 
flame-colored pelt. For a moment he paused, unsure 
which of the tantalizing aromas he should follow. Then 
he picked out the scent of a squirrel; it had swarmed 
up the trunk of a nearby oak tree and was hiding 
somewhere in the branches above his head. 

Its been a while since I tested my tree-climbing 
skills, he thought, remembering how he had taught his 
Clanmates to hunt aboveground. Lionblaze really 
hated it at first. With a purr of amusement Firestar 
recalled the golden-furred warrior standing at the foot 
of a tree, reluctant to set paw on the trunk. Unlike 
Cinderheart, who seemed ready to sleep in a bird 5 
nest once she learned how to climb. 

Firestar sprang up the tree, digging his claws into 
the rough bark, and spotted the squirrel on one of the 
outer branches. He leaped toward it, reveling in the 
strength in his haunches, pleased that he still kept his 


sense of balance. The squirrel fled, jumping from 
branch to branch, higher and higher. As Firestar 
crouched, ready to follow, he heard a voice calling him 
from below. 

“Firestar! Firestar!” 

He halted; the leaves around him rustled as the 
squirrel vanished into the dense foliage. Firestar 
allowed himself a single hiss of regret, then turned and 
scrambled down the trunk to the ground. 

Bluestar, the former ThunderClan leader, was 
waiting for him at the foot of the tree. Her blue-gray 
fur shimmered in the sunlight. “Sorry to disturb you, 
Firestar,’ she meowed. Her eyes glinted. “I see you 
haven’t lost any of your hunting skill. You looked pretty 
comfortable up there . . . but I’m happy to leave the 
tree hunting to others. Walk with me,” she added, 
nodding deeper into the forest. 

Firestar padded by her side, enjoying the sun’s 
warmth soaking into his pelt. StarClan has everything 
to make a cat content, he thought. But I still miss my 
old home and my Clanmates. Sometimes it seems 
like I left them when they needed me most. 

“ThunderClan has had a difficult time, hasn’t it?” 


Bluestar commented, as if she had picked up Firestar’s 
regrets. “Wounded cats had scarcely healed after the 
Great Battle when the greencough came.” 

Firestar hesitated before replying, swallowing the 
wail of grief that rose in his chest. We were already 
weakened by the battle; we didnt stand a chance 
of fighting the greencough. 

He took a breath and let it out in a long sigh. 
“There has been so much loss, so much pain. But the 
sickness has gone, thanks to Leafpool and Jayfeather.” 
He forced a note of optimism into his voice. 
“Brightheart and Cloudtail’s kits have become 
apprentices. And Bramblestar is a fair and confident 
leader. ThunderClan will survive.” 

“Of course.” Bluestar nodded. “Bramblestar had a 
good mentor. Do you walk in his dreams?” 

“I don’t need to,” Firestar responded. “I trust him.” 
He felt a familiar stab of anger in his belly. “I shouldn’t 
have had to leave my Clan,” he hissed. “I could have 
gone on serving them for many more seasons.” 

“Could you have saved them from the 
greencough? Healed their injuries more quickly?” 
Bluestar rested her tail on his shoulder. “You gave 


ThunderClan nine good lives. They could not ask for 
any more.” 

Ducking beneath some curling fronds of fern, they 
padded across a glade of bright green grass, circled by 
silver birch trees. 

“All of the Clans have struggled this leaf-bare,” 
Bluestar mewed. “ShadowClan has more elders than 
warriors, and WindClan lost most of its best hunters in 
the Great Battle. It is hard for every cat here to watch 
our Clanmates suffer.” She paused to hold a bramble 
out of Firestar’s way. “But there is always hope. 
Especially in StarClan.” 

“T know,” Firestar meowed. “But I never realized 
how far I would be from my Clan. And I—I always 
thought Spottedleaf would be here to guide me.” He 
pictured the beautiful tortoiseshell  she-cat, 
ThunderClan’s former medicine cat, who had given up 
her existence in StarClan fighting for her living 
Clanmates. Her amber eyes seemed to glow with 
sadness in his memory. 

“Spottedleaf will be much missed,’ Bluestar 
agreed, a slight edge to her tone. “But one day 
Sandstorm will come here to be with you.” 


One day. Pain clawed once more at Firestar’s 
heart as he thought of his mate. How many seasons 
must I wait for her? 


Firestar had made a warm nest for himself at the 
bottom of a hollow tree. It seemed strange not to be 
sleeping in a camp with other cats, though if he listened 
carefully, he could hear the gentle murmurs of 
StarClan warriors settlng around him, hidden in the 
ferns. As he closed his eyes, he hoped that he would 
dream himself into ThunderClan. 

Instead it seemed only a heartbeat since he had 
slipped into sleep when he was roused by a paw 
prodding him in the shoulder. Firestar raised his head, 
blinking. 

“Wake up, Firestar,” a voice meowed. 

A cat was standing in front of him: a muscular gray 
tom with patches of white on his fur. 

“Cloudstar!” Firestar exclaimed. 

The former SkyClan leader dipped his head. 
“Greetings, Firestar.” 

Firestar scrambled to his paws and shook scraps of 
moss from his pelt. He had last seen Cloudstar many, 


many seasons before, after the gray-and-white tom 
had led him upriver from the forest to restore his lost 
Clan. Once Leafstar, the new SkyClan leader, had 
received her nine lives, Firestar and Cloudstar had said 
farewell. Firestar had never expected to see him again. 

“What are you doing here?” he asked. “The skies 
you walk are so far away.” 

“I was allowed to visit you,” Cloudstar replied. 
“We must talk together. Come.” 

He padded ahead of Firestar down a grassy slope 
to the edge of the forest. A pool of water stretched 
before them, its silver surface reflecting the light of the 
full moon. 

“I want to thank you again, for understanding why 
it was so important to rebuild SkyClan,” Cloudstar 
meowed, halting at the water’s edge and resting his 
calm blue gaze on Firestar. “Sometimes one Clan 
cannot survive without the help of others.” 

Firestar nodded. “We’ve certainly learned that 
recently, if we didn’t know it before,” he murmured. 
For a heartbeat the darkness of the Great Battle 
swirled around him once more, the stench of blood and 
the shrieks of dying cats. 


“I saw your terrible battle,” Cloudstar meowed. 
“And for the first time I was glad that I had to lead my 
Clan to find a new home, because we were spared the 
vengeance of the Dark Forest.” 

“It wasn’t vengeance. It was slaughter.” Firestar 
felt the fur rise along his spine. “I had to watch my 
Clanmates die. I gave my last life to save them... 
and it wasn’t enough.” 

“The battle was won,’ Cloudstar pointed out 
quietly. “You did not lose your life for nothing.” He 
padded alongside the pool, stepping delicately among 
the vegetation that grew by the edge of the water. 

Firestar kept pace with him, their pelts brushing. 
“You haven’t come all the way here to thank me for 
helping Leafstar, or to speak about the Great Battle. 
What is it, Cloudstar? Is there something wrong in 
SkyClan?” 

Cloudstar stopped and sat down, looking across the 
pool. Suddenly he lifted his hind paw and sliced a 
foreclaw across his pad. A line of blood oozed out and 
dripped into the water, spreading in a scarlet cloud 
against the silver. 

The violence of Cloudstar’s response made 


Firestar wince. He stood with his mouth open, staring 
at the swirl of blood. 

“I bring a message that you need to take to 
Bramblestar,’ Cloudstar meowed, still gazing at the 
water. 

“A prophecy?” Firestar echoed. My first 
prophecy! I am a true StarClan cat! 

“Yes. Listen well Firestar. When water meets 
blood, blood will rise.” 

Firestar blinked. /s that it? “What does it mean?” 

“We do not need to know the meaning,” Cloudstar 
told him, turning until his eyes burned into Firestar’s 
like two small moons. “Bramblestar will find that out 
for himself.” 

“And when do I give this message to 
Bramblestar?” Firestar asked. He resisted the urge to 
demand more answers from the old cat. Do all 
StarClan cats deliver prophecies that seem to mean 
nothing? 

“You will know when the time comes,” Cloudstar 
replied. 

Could you be any more vague? Firestar thought 
irritably. But he kept his voice steady. “Does this mean 


that more trouble is coming for my Clan?” 

“The life of the warrior Clans is always storm- 
tossed,” Cloudstar meowed. “It’s our duty—the duty 
of all StarClan—to watch over them, whatever 
happens.” His gaze softened. “I’m sorry, Firestar. I 
know this isn’t what you want to hear. But I promise, 
this message will help Bramblestar in the end. You 
have to trust me on that.” 

Firestar sighed. “I do trust you. But is it too much 
to ask that ThunderClan could have a few seasons of 
peace, after they’ve suffered so much?” 





CHAPTER 1 
de 


S 


Bramblestar stood near the entrance to the hollow 
and breathed deeply. The sky was milky-pale with 
dawn, and mist still drifted between the trees, but the 
air was full of the scents of fresh, growing things, 
announcing new life. Each twig was tipped with green, 
and tight fronds of ferns were starting to uncoil in the 
midst of the dead bracken. 

Its been a long, harsh leaf-bare, Bramblestar 
thought. The heavy snow made it harder, and we 
have so few warriors to hunt prey. Fewer still since 
the greencough . . . Then he gave his pelt a shake. 
His Clan had made it through the bitter, grief-wracked 
leaf-bare, and the warmer weather was returning. 
“We’ve survived six moons since the Great Battle,” he 
meowed aloud. “And now we’ll start to build up our 
strength again. Nothing will destroy ThunderClan.” 

“That’s right.” 

Bramblestar jumped at the sound of Berrynose’s 
voice. He hadn’t noticed the cream-colored warrior 
emerging from the barrier of thorns behind him. 


“Berrynose, you nearly frightened me out of my 
!” he exclaimed. 

“Nothing frightens you, Bramblestar,’ Berrynose 
responded. “I’m leading a border patrol. Do you want 
to come with us?” 

As he spoke, Millie and Rosepetal pushed their 
way through the prickly wall, closely followed by one 
of the new apprentices, Amberpaw. Her mentor, 
Spiderleg, brought up the rear. 

Amberpaw bounced up to Berrynose. “Where are 
we going today?” she chirped. “WindClan or 
ShadowClan? What will we do if we catch them 
trespassing? Will we need to fight? I learned a great 
move!” 

Berrynose looked a little overwhelmed, and it was 
Spiderleg who replied. “Amberpaw, if you stop 
twittering like a blackbird and start listening, you might 
learn something.” 

His words were stern but not harsh, and 
Bramblestar was pleased to see that Amberpaw 
wasn’t at all mtimidated by her mentor. “Okay, 
Spiderleg,” she mewed. “But—” 

“We’re going along the WindClan border,” 


fur 


Berrynose interrupted. “And we’re not expecting 
trouble.” He strode downhill toward the lake. 

Bramblestar waited until the rest of the patrol had 
passed, then fell in behind them. He noticed how thin 
the cats were, their ribs visible beneath sparse pelts. 
But their alertness showed in every twitch of their 
ears, and muscles bunched in their scrawny haunches 
as they moved. ThunderClan was not beaten yet. 

Amberpaw skittered between the trees in a broad 
zigzag, and Spiderleg stretched out a black paw to halt 
her. 

“If you go on like that,’ he warned, “you’ll be 
exhausted before the patrol is half over. And if there 
are any cats trespassing on our territory, they’ll hear 
you coming way before we spot them.” 

“Sorry, Spiderleg,” Amberpaw mewed, flattening 
her ears. 

“I want to see how quietly you can walk,” 
Spiderleg told her. “Pretend you're stalking a mouse.” 

Bramblestar watched as the little ginger she-cat 
stalked forward, setting each paw down so lightly that 
she hardly disturbed the crumbled leaves. 

“Not bad,” Spiderleg commented. “Keep it up.” 


From Spiderleg, that was a considerable 
compliment, and Amberpaw puffed up her chest with 
pride. 

It was a good decision to put those two 
together, Bramblestar thought. In fact, all three 
apprentices are doing well. They were the first 
apprentices he had made as Clan leader, and he had 
hesitated a long time over the choice of mentors. Now 
Dewpaw was paired with Whitewing, her sister from 
an earlier litter by Cloudtail and Brightheart, while 
Snowpaw was mentored by Ivypool. 

They suffered so much hardship, so much grief 
as they were growing up, Bramblestar reflected. / 
want their apprenticeship moons to be peaceful, so 
they can be reassured that life in the Clan is not 
always lived on the brink of death. 

As the patrol reached the edge of the trees above 
the lake, Bramblestar spotted Leafpool under an 
elderly beech tree. She was nipping off stems of early- 
flowering coltsfoot, the yellow buds glowing like tiny 
suns. Noticing the patrol, she waved her tail in 
greeting. 

“You look busy,” Bramblestar commented as he 


padded up to her. 

“That’s because I am.” Leafpool gathered the 
coltsfoot stems into a neat bundle. “Jayfeather wants 
these gathered before the sun burns off the dew.” 

“Hi, Leafpool!” Millie bounded over to join them. 
“I just wanted to tell you that Briarlight’s exercises are 
clearing her chest really well. I was so afraid she 
would never get over that bout of greencough.” 

Bramblestar felt a pang of relief shiver through his 
pelt. Millie was understandably anxious about her 
daughter, Briarlight, who had lost the use of her hind 
legs when she was trapped under a falling tree. It was 
hard to believe that the injured she-cat had recovered 
from a bout of greencough that had killed Toadstep, 
Icecloud, and Hazeltail. 

Leafpool twitched her ears. “It’s Jayfeather you 
ought to thank, Millie. He never stops figuring out 
different ways to help Briarlight. I’m collecting this 
coltsfoot for a new mixture of herbs to help her 
breathing, together with thyme and catmint.” 

“We still have catmint?” Millie asked. 

“Oh, yes, there’s new growth in the patch 
Jayfeather planted beside the old Twoleg den. I’m 


going to tend it as soon as I’ve taken these herbs back 
to camp.” 

Leafpool picked up her bundle and bounded off 
through the trees. Bramblestar watched her go, more 
glad than he could express that she was ThunderClan’s 
medicine cat once more. 

Berrynose led the patrol to the WindClan border. 
They paused for a moment on the bank of the stream 
where it spilled into the lake, then headed uphill, 
keeping close to the water’s edge. Before they had 
gone more than a couple of fox-lengths, the sun 
crested the moor, bathing the tough grass in golden 
light. Bramblestar stopped to stretch his front legs, 
thankful for the warmth after so many cold moons. 

As the cats trekked upward, the breeze blowing 
from beyond the stream carried WindClan scent 
markers strongly toward them. 

“Those smell fresh,’ Berrynose muttered, 
wrinkling his nose. “Millie, Rosepetal, you’d better 
renew our markers as we go along. We don’t want 
WindClan to think we’re getting careless about 
boundaries.” 

“I want to set a scent marker!” Amberpaw piped 


up. “Can I, please?” 

“Can she?” Spiderleg asked Berrynose. “She'll 
have to learn how sooner or later.” 

“I know how!” Amberpaw scampered up to the 
edge of the stream. “I watched—” She broke off with 
a squeal as the grass beneath her paws gave way and 
she slid out of sight. A heartbeat later, they heard a 
loud splash. 

“Amberpaw!” Spiderleg yowled. 

Every cat rushed to the edge of the stream where 
the apprentice had disappeared. Bramblestar couldn't 
remember whether the water was deep enough here to 
drown her. 

Spiderleg plunged down the side of the bank into 
the swift-flowing water. Leaning over the edge, 
Bramblestar saw the black warrior boosting 
Amberpaw onto a ledge just above the surface of the 
stream. She was coughing up water while the current 
dragged at her tail. 

“It’s cold!” she gasped. 

“Serves you right for being so idiotic,’ Spiderleg 
meowed as he scrambled up behind her, though 
Bramblestar noticed that he touched his nose 


comfortingly to the young cat’s ear. “Come on, climb 
onto my shoulders and Bramblestar will help you out.” 

Before Amberpaw could move, Bramblestar 
spotted movement in the bushes at the other side of the 
stream, and a WindClan patrol emerged into the open, 
with Weaselfur in the lead. 

“What’s going on?” the WindClan warrior 
demanded. “Why are you in our stream?” 

“Tt’s not your stream,” Spiderleg hissed, crouching 
lower on the ledge so that Amberpaw could reach his 
shoulders. “We haven’t crossed the border.” 

“You'd better not,” Weaselfur growled, his ginger 
fur starting to bristle. “We all know what ThunderClan 
thinks about boundaries.” 

Bramblestar reached down to sink his teeth into 
Amberpaw’s scruff while she teetered wildly on 
Spiderleg’s shoulders, and dragged her up to the safety 
of the bank. Before he had the chance to respond to 
Weaselfur, Rosepetal flashed past him, leaping the 
stream to stand nose to nose with the WindClan 
warrior. 

“How dare you!” she exclaimed. “Name one time 
ThunderClan invaded your territory.” 


Weaselfur unsheathed his claws. His Clanmates 
Leaftail and Nightcloud sprang forward, hissing with 
fury, and trapped Rosepetal between them. Nightpelt 
lashed out, clawing at Rosepetal’s ear. 

Two soft-furred WindClan apprentices looked on 
with wide eyes, bouncing on their paws as if they were 
waiting for the signal to join in. 

“Invading our territory? How about now?” 
Nightcloud mewed pointedly. She flicked her tail. “Get 
back on your own side of the stream.” 

“She’s right,’ Bramblestar meowed, moving to the 
very edge of the bank. This wasn’t a battle they 
needed to fight. “Rosepetal, get back here now.” 

Rosepetal jumped back across the stream, hanging 
her head as she halted in front of Bramblestar. Blood 
was trickling from a scratch on her ear. “Sorry,” she 
muttered. “I lost my temper. But they started it.” 

“Never mind who started it” Bramblestar 
meowed. “Sorry,” he called to Weaselfur and the rest 
of the WindClan cats. “Our apprentice fell into the 
stream. Spiderleg was just helping her out.” 

Weaselfur sniffed. “Then she should watch where 
she’s putting her paws.” 


Bramblestar understood why the WindClan cats 
were so touchy. We may have united to fight against 
the Dark Forest... but we’re four Clans, not one, 
and borders need to be respected once more. 

To his relief, Weaselfur relaxed and waved his tail 
for the rest of his patrol to take a step back. “Make 
sure it doesn’t happen again,” he growled. “And don’t 
think you can jump across here any time you feel like 
it.” 

“She said sorry!” Berrynose spat at him. 

“How’s the prey running in WindClan?” 
Bramblestar asked with a glare at Berrynose, while 
Spiderleg clambered out of the stream and shook 
himself, spattering his Clanmates with icy drops. 

“Fine,” Weaselfur replied coolly. “More rabbits 
than we can count. What about ThunderClan?” 

“Oh, prey is coming back now the cold weather is 
over,” Bramblestar told him, sounding more optimistic 
than he felt. “We’re looking forward to the warm 
seasons. And how is Onestar?” he added. “And 
Sedgewhisker? I haven’t seen her at a Gathering for a 
couple of moons.” 

“Onestar is fine,’ Leaftail responded. “And 


Sedgewhisker is expecting Emberfoot’s kits. She”Il be 
in the nursery for a while yet.” 

“Congratulations,” Bramblestar mewed, meaning 
it. “Well, we’d better be getting along.” 

He turned to the rest of the patrol. Millie was 
helping Amberpaw to groom her wet fur, while 
Berrynose stood close to Rosepetal, licking her 
scratched ear. At Bramblestar’s signal he stopped and 
headed upstream again. 

“Good-bye!” Bramblestar called to the WindClan 
patrol. 

“You lot should try going for a swim!” Amberpaw 
added cheekily over her shoulder. “You need cooling 
down!” 

Spiderleg instantly bounded to her side and gave 
her a cuff over the ear, his claws sheathed. “Mouse- 
brain!” he muttered. “That was a lucky escape back 
there.” 

Once the patrol had left the WindClan cats behind, 
Berrynose dropped back to pad along beside 
Bramblestar. “Rosepetal seems okay,” he mewed. “I 
was worried the WindClan cats might have hurt her.” 

Bramblestar gave Berrynose a puzzled look. Have 


I missed something? he wondered. Berrynose is still 
Poppyfrosts mate, right? 

“We’ve lost so many she-cats,” Berrynose went 
on. “Hollyleaf, Sorreltail, and Ferncloud in the Great 
Battle, and Icecloud and Hazeltail from greencough. 
Now it’s newleaf, and none of the survivors are 
expecting kits.” 

Bramblestar realized this was true. He felt guilty 
that he hadn’t thought about this himself, and he was 
struck by how serious Berrynose sounded. Maybe 
he’s growing up at last, he thought. He used to be a 
real pain in the tail.... 

“We need to think about replacing the fallen 
warriors,” Berrynose pointed out. “If we don’t, we’ll 
be weaker than the other Clans. We’ve just heard that 
kits are due in WindClan. We need to heal from the 
wounds of the Great Battle and make ourselves strong 
agin, but how can we do that if we have fewer cats 
than the other Clans?” 





CHAPTER 2 
de 


S 


Bramblestar pushed his way through the thorn 
barrier into the camp with the rest of the patrol behind 
him. The sun shone down into the hollow, casting long 
shadows across the ground. Above the cliffs, the trees 
rustled gently and a warm breeze stirred the dust on 
the ground. 

Bramblestar could still see traces of the terrible 
conflict when the warriors of the Dark Forest had 
poured into the camp: fresh bramble tendrils entwined 
with the old in the walls of the nursery, and broken 
branches on the hazel bush that screened the elders’ 
den. It was too easy to close his eyes and be plunged 
back into the storm of fighting and blood, with cats 
both dead and alive attacking from all sides. The Dark 
Forest cats had flung themselves into battle in a furious 
quest for power and vengeance, and it had taken all 
the strength of the living cats—and the strength of 
StarClan—to beat them back. Bramblestar gave his 
pelt a shake, trying to recall his earlier optimism. At 
least the dens were repaired, and the surviving cats 


had recovered from their wounds. 

But the scars we cant see will be harder to 
heal. 

When the battle was over, Jayfeather had propped 
a bark-stripped branch against the cliff below the 
Highledge. He had scored claw marks across it, one 
for each life taken by the Dark Forest. 

“It will remind us of the debts that we owe to our 
former Clanmates,” he had explained. 

Now Whitewing was standing in front of the 
branch with her apprentice, Dewpaw, beside her. 
Seedpaw and Lilypaw stood watching with their 
mentors, Bumblestripe and Poppyfrost. 

“Can you remember all the names?” Whitewing 
asked her apprentice. 

Dewpaw narrowed his eyes in concentration. “I 
think so. This one is for Mousefur. . . .” he began, 
touching the first claw mark. “She was an elder, but 
she fought so bravely! And this one is for Hollyleaf. 
She had been away for a while, but she came back in 
time to help us when the Dark Forest attacked. And 
this is for Foxleap, who died of his wounds afterward. . 


33 


Bramblestar nodded as Dewpaw went on reciting 
the names. He had decided that all the apprentices had 
to learn the list as part of their training, so that their lost 
Clanmates would be remembered for season after 
season, as long as ThunderClan survived. 

“This one is for Ferncloud,” Dewpaw continued. 
“She was killed by Brokenstar when she was 
defending the kits in the nursery. And this is Sorreltail. 
She hid her wounds because she wanted to take care 
of the kits, but she died just when we thought we had 
won. She was the bravest of all.” 

“And the big mark right at the top?” Whitewing 
prompted. “Do you know who that stands for?” 

“That's our leader, Firestar,” Dewpaw replied. “He 
was the best cat in the whole forest, and he gave up 
his last life to save us!” 

Bramblestar felt a familiar stab of grief. / wonder 
if he’s watching us now? I hope he approves of 
what I have done. 

“I miss Firestar, too.” 

Bramblestar turned to see that Jayfeather had 
appeared at his side, the medicine cat’s blue eyes fixed 
on him so intensely that it was hard to believe he was 


blind. “I didn’t think you could tell what's in my mind 
anymore,” Bramblestar mewed, surprised. 

“No, those days are past,’ Jayfeather admitted, 
sounding a little wistful. “But it wasn’t hard to figure 
out that you were thinking of Firestar. I heard 
Dewpaw run his paw over Firestar’s mark and say his 
name, and then you sighed.” He pressed himself 
briefly against Bramblestar’s side. “I’m sure Firestar 
watches over us.” 

“Has he walked in your dreams yet?” Bramblestar 
asked. 

Jayfeather shook his head. “No, but that’s a good 
omen in itself. I’ve had enough warnings from 
StarClan to last me nine lifetimes.” With a brisk nod to 
Bramblestar, he padded away to jon Leafpool, who 
was sorting coltsfoot flowers and fresh-picked catmint 
outside their den. 

“Come on, Snowpaw,” Ivypool called to her 
apprentice. “Time for battle training!” 

“Can we go too?” Dewpaw begged, as his sister 
scampered over to join her mentor. 

“Sure we can,” Whitewing meowed. 

“And me!” Amberpaw raced across the camp and 


skidded to a halt beside her littermates. 

“No, not you!” Spiderleg called from where he 
stood beside the fresh-kill pile with Cloudtail and 
Cherryfall. “You did the dawn patrol this morning. You 
need to rest.” 

Amberpaw’s tail drooped. “But they’ ll be learning 
stuff when I’m not there!” she wailed. “PI get behind, 
and then I'll never be a warrior!” 

Spiderleg padded over to her and gave her ear a 
friendly flick with his tail “Of course you'll be a 
warrior, mouse-brain! Once you've rested, PIL show 
you the move they’re going to learn, I promise.” 

“Okay.” Amberpaw still cast a regretful look after 
her littermates and their mentors as they left the 
hollow. 

“What about us?” Lilypaw asked, exchanging a 
disappointed glance with Seedpaw. “Why can’t we do 
battle training?” 

“Because we’re going hunting,” Poppyfrost replied 
briskly. “Come on! Bumblestripe knows the best place 
to find mice.” 

“Great!” Seedpaw exclaimed with an excited little 
bounce. “Lilypaw, I bet I catch more mice than you.” 


“I'm going to catch enough for the whole Clan!” 
her sister retorted. 

“Its not fair,” Amberpaw muttered as she 
watched them go. “Why don’t I get to do anything?” 

“I told you,” Spiderleg responded. “You did the 
dawn patrol. Now you rest. But before you do,” he 
went on, “you can fetch some clean moss for Purdy’s 
den.” 

Amberpaw brightened up. “Sure! And maybe he’ 
tell me a story!” She darted off and thrust her way into 
the barrier. 

“I wonder if I ever had that much energy?” 
Bramblestar mewed aloud as he watched the young 
cat disappear. 

Sandstorm popped her head out of the nearby 
nursery. “You still do!” she told him. She emerged into 
the open, pushing a ball of moss in front of her. “It’s 
good to see the little ones being so lively. It gives me 
new hope for our Clan.” She paused, her gaze 
clouding, and Bramblestar wondered if she was 
thinking about her former mate, Firestar, who wasn’t 
here to watch this group of apprentices grow up. Then 
she lifted her head again. “Daisy and I are clearing out 


the nursery,” she announced, giving the ball of moss a 
prod with one paw. “There might not be any kits now, 
but surely some of our young she-cats will be 
expecting soon.” 

“I hope so,” Bramblestar replied, remembering his 
earlier conversation with Berrynose. / really hope so. 
“Surely there are other cats who could help Daisy?” 
he went on, thinking that Sandstorm didn’t need to be 
struggling with bedding, covered in dust and scraps of 
moss. 

Amusement sparked in Sandstorm’s green eyes. 
“Are you trying to pack me off to the elders’ den?” 
she teased. 

“You’ve served your Clanmates long enough,” 
Bramblestar responded. “Why not let them take care 
of you now?” 

Sandstorm flicked her whiskers dismissively. “I’ve 
plenty of life in my paws yet,” she insisted, retreating 
into the nursery to help Daisy wrestle with a huge 
clump of brittle, musty moss. 

Bramblestar watched the she-cats for a moment 
longer before turning away. His deputy, Squirrelflight, 
stood near the elders’ den, sorting out the hunting 


patrols with Graystripe; like Sandstorm, the former 
deputy was one of the oldest cats in the Clan now. 

“We need the hunting patrols to go out early,” 
Graystripe was explaining to Squirrelflight. “With the 
days getting hotter, it’s best to avoid sunhigh for 
chasing around.” 

Squirrelflight nodded. “And the prey will be holed 
up by then, too. I’ve already sent out one patrol,” she 
went on, “but PI send out another. Brightheart would 
be a good cat to lead it.” She glanced around. “Hey, 
Brightheart!” 

The ginger-and-white she-cat slid out between the 
branches that sheltered the warriors’ den. “Yes?” 

“I want you to lead a hunting patrol,” Squirrelflight 
told her. “But stick to one area, and come back before 
it gets too hot.” 

Brightheart dipped her head. “Any particular 
place?” she asked. 

“You could try up by the ShadowClan border,” 
Squirrelflight suggested. “Millie spotted a nest of 
squirrels there yesterday.” 

“Good idea,” Brightheart mewed. “Which cats 
should I take with me?” 


“Millie, obviously, since she knows where the nest 
is. Apart from her, any cat you like.” 

“I'm on my way.” Brightheart bounded off to call 
Millie from the warriors’ den. Then she rounded up 
Dovewing and Mousewhisker and headed out through 
the thorns. 

The barrier was still trembling from their departure 
when Amberpaw reappeared with a huge bundle of 
moss in her jaws. As she staggered toward the elders’ 
den, Bramblestar noticed that the moss was dripping 
with water, leaving a line of dark spots on the dusty 
floor of the clearing. 

Squirrelflight stepped out to intercept the 
apprentice as she drew closer to the den. “You can’t 
take that in there,” she told Amberpaw sharply. “That 
moss is too wet. It'Il soak all the other bedding and 
Purdy will claw your ears off for making his legs ache 
from the damp.” 

At the mention of his name Purdy ducked out of 
the shelter of the hazel bush. “There’s nothin’ wrong 
with my legs, or my ears,” he snorted. 

“How about your pelt?” Amberpaw asked, 
dropping the moss. 


Bramblestar stifled a mrrow of amusement: 
Purdy’s tabby pelt looked as if he had crawled 
backward through the thorns, the fur clumped and 
sticking up as if he hadn’t groomed himself for a moon. 

“Eh? Speak up!” Purdy complained. “Why are you 
mumblin’? Young cats these days always mumble,” he 
added crossly. 

“I was explaining to Amberpaw that she can't 
bring wet moss into your den,” Squirrelflight meowed. 

“What?” Purdy prodded the bundle of moss. 
“You’re sure you weren’t tryin’ to bring me a drink 
instead?” he asked Amberpaw. 

The apprentice looked crestfallen. “I was only 
trying to help.” 

“Sure you were, young ”un.” Purdy stroked 
Amberpaw’s side with his tail. “Come on. You an’ I 
will spread the moss out here, just outside the den, an’ 
it'll soon dry in the sun. An’ while it does that, PI tell 
you how I once killed a whole nest o? rats.” 

“Yes!” Amberpaw bounced in delight and began 
spreading out the wet moss. 

On the other side of the clearing, Sandstorm 
headed out of the camp, pushing a huge bundle of used 


bedding in front of her. Bramblestar slid into the 
nursery and began helping Daisy scratch together the 
next bundle. 

“Have you heard anything about new kits?” he 
asked hopefully. 

Daisy shook her head. “No, but I’m sure we’ll 
need the nursery soon, now that newleaf is here.” She 
paused, then added, “Come and look.” 

She led Bramblestar out of the nursery and pointed 
with her tail to where Lionblaze and Cinderheart were 
sharing tongues in a patch of sunlight. “That one will 
be expecting soon,” Daisy mewed, twitching her ears 
at Cinderheart. 

Bramblestar felt a flash of excitement. He 
remembered play fighting with Lionblaze as a kit 
outside the nursery, and how he had taught Lionblaze 
his first pounce. In spite of all thats happened, 1 
couldn t have loved those three kits more if I'd been 
their real father. 

Lionblaze looked up and noticed Bramblestar 
watching him. With a quick word to Cinderheart he got 
up and limped across the camp to join his leader. 

“Did you want me?” he asked. 


“No, but since you’re here, you can tell me how 
things are going. It looks as if we might have some 
new kits soon,’ Bramblestar meowed with an 
affectionate nudge. 

“Great StarClan!” Lionblaze gave his chest fur a 
couple of embarrassed licks. “No pressure, then?” 

“Are you sure you’re okay?” Bramblestar went on 
more anxiously, spotting a scratch on Lionblaze’s 
shoulder. He 5 limping on that forepaw, too. 

Lionblaze sighed. “Yes, I’m fine. Leafpool and 
Jayfeather checked me out, and gave me a dock leaf 
for the sore pad. It’s just hard to get used to the way I 
can be hurt now. All I did was trip over a stupid 
bramble!” 

“Too bad,” Bramblestar mewed. “You'll have to 
start watching where you tread!” 

“That will make me very fearsome to our enemies. 
Not,” Lionblaze muttered. He limped back to his mate 
and settled down beside her. 

Movement at the entrance caught Bramblestar’s 
eye as the first hunting patrol returned. Dustpelt was 
leading it; he carried a squirrel in his jaws. Behind him 
came Brackenfur, Blossomfall, and Poppyfrost, all 


laden with prey. Bramblestar watched approvingly 
while they carried their catch over to the fresh-kill pile. 

He noticed that Dustpelt looked exhausted as he 
dropped his squirrel on the pile. The brown tabby tom 
was still haunted by the death of his mate, Ferncloud, 
in the Great Battle. Squirrelflight had told him that 
Dustpelt often woke yowling in the warriors’ den, 
thrashing in his nest. In his dreams he still tried to save 
Ferncloud from the claws of Brokenstar, and every 
time he had to watch her die again. 

A little more than a moon ago, Bramblestar had 
suggested that Dustpelt might like to retire and join the 
elders. 

“Anything but that,’ Dustpelt had growled. “Let 
me keep busy. I need something to distract me, or the 
memories hurt too much.” 

“You'll meet Ferncloud again one day, in 
StarClan,” Bramblestar meowed, trying to comfort the 
older warrior. 

Dustpelt shook his head. “Sometimes I wonder if 
that’s true.” His voice shaking, he added, “I kept some 
of the moss from her nest. But I can’t even smell her 
scent on it anymore.” 


Bramblestar hadn’t known what he could do to 
help, except to do as Dustpelt asked and make sure he 
stayed busy. 

Bramblestar headed across the camp, intending to 
praise Dustpelt’s patrol for their good hunting, when he 
heard his name yowled from the other side of the 
barrier. Startled, he spun around to see Brightheart 
bursting out of the thorns with the rest of her patrol just 
behind. 

“ShadowClan!” she gasped as she scrambled to a 
halt. 

“Calm down,” Bramblestar meowed. “Tell me 
what happened.” 

“Are they attacking?” Brackenfur called as the 
rest of the Clan gathered around, their whiskers 
quivering with curiosity. 

“No, but it’s almost as bad,” Brightheart panted. 
“We picked up ShadowClan scent inside our borders.” 

“And it’s not the first time it’s happened,” Millie 
added with a lash of her tail. 

“Are they after that nest of squirrels?” Lionblaze 
asked. 

More cats jumped in with urgent questions. Only 


Dovewing looked quiet and subdued. Bramblestar felt 
a stab of pity. Once she would have been able to look 
into ShadowClan without leaving the hollow, and listen 
to their conversations to find out why they were 
crossing the border, but those days were gone. She 
feels blind and deaf without her powers, he 
guessed. 

Bumblestripe padded up to Dovewing and pressed 
his muzzle against her shoulder. “Are you okay?” he 
whispered. 

Dovewing leaned into him. “I’m fine,” she sighed. 

Bramblestar raised his tail for silence. “Brightheart, 
where exactly—” he began. 

“We should attack now!” Mousewhisker 
interrupted, his shoulder fur bristling with fury. “Those 
crow-food eaters have no right to set paw on our 
territory.” 

For a moment a cold trickle of suspicion passed 
through Bramblestar. Mousewhisker had been one of 
the cats who had trained in the Dark Forest, and 
although he had returned to his Clan, he seemed a bit 
too ready to attack their neighbors. Did he want to try 
out the skills he had learned from his Dark Forest 


mentors? Bramblestar thrust the suspicion away. 
Mousewhisker is young, and young cats are 
hotheaded. 

“No cat will attack any of the Clans,” he warned. 

“Try telling that to WindClan,” Rosepetal muttered, 
flicking the ear that Nightcloud had scratched that 
morning. 

“So what are we going to do about ShadowClan?” 
Millie asked. 

“We're not going to let ShadowClan get away with 
this, are we?” Berrynose meowed. He sounded almost 
as belligerent as Mousewhisker. 

“Not at all” Bramblestar replied. “I’m going to 
visit Blackstar, and find out why his warriors are 
crossing our border.” 

“Seriously?” Mousewhisker’s eyes stretched wide, 
and his voice was even more indignant than before. 
“You're going to give them a chance to come up with a 
reason, when we all know what they’re doing is 
wrong?” 

“Mouse-bram!” Mousewhisker’s sister Cherryfall 
gave him a hard nudge, almost unbalancing him. “That 
isn’t what Bramblestar is domg. He’s just going to tell 


Blackstar that he knows what’s going on!” 

Bramblestar was touched by the ginger she-cat’s 
faith in him. My Clanmates should be able to trust 
me to keep them safe. What would they say if they 
knew how much I doubt myself? 





CHAPTER 3 
> 


S 


“Squirrelflight, I’d like you to come with me,” 
Bramblestar meowed. “And you, Brackenfur, and 
Cinderheart.” He was careful not to choose any of the 
cats with Dark Forest associations, unwilling to risk 
any comments from ShadowClan. The Great Battle 
had revealed misplaced allegiances inside every Clan, 
and however much those cats had sworn loyalty to 
their living Clans since then, they would always be a 
source of mistrust for their rivals. 

The cats Bramblestar had named started to head 
over to him. Cinderheart paused for a moment to touch 
noses with Lionblaze. 

“Be careful,” the golden tabby tom murmured. 

Bramblestar led the patrol into the forest. By now 
it was almost sunhigh, warm and breezeless, and 
everything was still under the warm rays. But 
Bramblestar was too concerned about ShadowClan’s 
trespass to enjoy the signs of life returning to his 
territory. 

“I think we should double the patrols on the 


ShadowClan border,” Squirrelflight suggested as they 
walked side by side through the trees. “And maybe 
hunt over there more regularly, too. Let ShadowClan 
know that our eyes and ears are open.” 

“Good idea,” Bramblestar agreed. 

As they trotted past the abandoned Twoleg den, 
Bramblestar spotted Leafpool tending to the herbs that 
she and Jayfeather had planted before leaf-bare. Tiny 
green shoots were beginning to sprout from the dark 
soil. Leafpool had her nose buried deep in a clump of 
catmint, and was unaware of the patrol. 

“I'm glad Leafpool has found her place within the 
Clan again,’ Squirrelflight murmured with a warm 
glance at her sister. “I—I think she lost a bit of herself 
when she stopped being a medicine cat.” 

“We’re lucky to have her,’ Bramblestar mewed. 
He was careful not to comment on Firestar’s decision 
to send Leafpool to the warriors’ den when the truth 
about Jayfeather, Lionblaze, and Hollyleaf came out. 
The fact that Leafpool had broken the medicine cats’ 
code could not be ignored, and Bramblestar was 
relieved that he had not been forced to make the 
Judgment. 


Thinking of other cats whose lives had been 
transformed by the Great Battle, he fell back to walk 
beside Brackenfur, out of earshot of the she-cats. 

“How are you doing?” Bramblestar asked. His fur 
felt hot with awkwardness, but he pictured Firestar 
gently making sure he knew how each of his 
Clanmates was coping with great change. “I know it’s 
tough for you, facing the return of newleaf without 
Sorreltail.” Somehow, grief had seemed easier to bear 
when the skies were dark and a cold wind kept cats 
and prey inside their nests. 

Brackenfur nodded, his eyes clouding. “I can’t 
bear knowing that she needn’t have died,’ he 
muttered. “If only she’d let Jayfeather treat her 
wounds straight after the battle . . . But she insisted on 
taking care of our kits first, and then it was too late.” 

“She was a great warrior, and a brilliant mother,” 
Bramblestar meowed. “None of us will forget her.” 

“Every leaf and every blade of grass reminds me 
of her,” Brackenfur told him, his voice steady. “I know 
she’s watching over me and her kits from StarClan. 
One day we’ll meet again.” He paused, then added 
quietly, “I would wait forever to see her face once 


more.” 

Bramblestar nodded, too full of emotion to speak. 
He ran ahead to give Brackenfur a few moments 
alone with his memories. 

As they approached the border, Bramblestar 
picked up the reek of ShadowClan scent. “This is well 
inside our territory,” he remarked with a lash of his tail. 
“What was Blackstar thinking?” 

“Who knows?” Squirrelflight let out a sigh of 
frustration. “I should have thought every cat in the 
forest has had a bellyful of trouble by now.” 
Bramblestar watched her green eyes gleam. Bellyful 
of trouble or not, she would run into battle today to 
protect her Clan. No leader could ask for a better 
deputy. 

The last few fox-lengths of their territory seemed 
full of ShadowClan scent, almost swamping the 
ThunderClan scent markers. 

“Keep together,’ Bramblestar warned as the patrol 
crossed the open space where Twolegs brought their 
pelt-dens in greenleaf. This had been ShadowClan 
territory for a long time, until the battle in which 
Russetfur had died. “If we meet a ShadowClan patrol, 


remember we’re here to talk, not fight.” 

“You mean we let them tear our pelts off?” 
Brackenfur asked. He sounded grim and focused, as if 
he had put aside his memories of Sorreltail. 

“I mean that we should defend ourselves if we 
have to, but we won’t strike the first blow,” 
Bramblestar replied. “You know ShadowClan as well 
as I do. They’ll do their best to provoke us, but we 
don’t have to let them.” 

Brackenfur snorted as Bramblestar led the way 
across the border and into ShadowClan territory. 

The bare trees of ThunderClan territory, with their 
swellng green buds, gave way to the gloomy 
ShadowClan pines, pierced by rare shafts of sunlight. 
The patrol’s paw steps fell softly on the thick layer of 
needles that covered the ground. Here and there 
Bramblestar spotted places where the needles had 
been churned up to expose the soil below. Clots of 
earth lay scattered on the disturbed ground like 
forgotten pieces of fresh-kill. 

“Cats fought there in the Great Battle,” 
Cinderheart murmured, angling her ears toward a wide 
stretch of scarred earth. “Will the forest ever 


recover?” 

“One day,” Squirrelflight responded, sturdily 
optimistic. “We have to believe that.” 

Undergrowth was sparser here than in 
ThunderClan territory, and Bramblestar felt more 
uneasy with each paw step. He kept glancing around, 
aware that they could be seen from some distance, and 
anxious not to let a ShadowClan patrol surprise them. 

But he was still unprepared when a ShadowClan 
patrol raced around a nearby bramble thicket, moving 
almost silently over the ground. The warriors skidded 
to a halt with startled yowls as they came face-to-face 
with the ThunderClan cats. 

Bramblestar’s sister Tawnypelt, who was leading 
the patrol, bristled with a mixture of shock and anger. 
“What are you doing here?” she demanded. She glared 
at her brother, her claws working among the pine 
needles. 

“We’re on our way to see Blackstar,” Bramblestar 
replied peaceably. “We’re not looking for trouble.” 

“Chase them off!” A young brown tabby she-cat 
bounced excitedly up and down. “They can’t trespass 
here!” 


“Clan leaders are allowed to visit one another, 
Grasspaw,” Tawnypelt meowed. “You don’t have to 
react to everything by unsheathing your claws.” 

The apprentice looked disappointed; she took a 
step back but glared at Bramblestar from behind 
Tawnypelt, letting the tips of her claws peek out 
against the dark soil. 

Tawnypelt looked wary as she faced Bramblestar. 
“We’ll escort you to our camp,” she meowed. “To 
make sure you don’t run into any of the trouble you 
say you’re not looking for.” 

“That’s fine by us,” Bramblestar told her. 

The ThunderClan patrol drew closer together as 
they followed Tawnypelt through the trees. Owlclaw 
and Scorchfur, the other members of the ShadowClan 
patrol, flanked them on each side. Grasspaw brought 
up the rear, growling softly. 

Bramblestar noticed more patches of torn earth, 
and in one place a clump of brambles that had been 
completely trampled down, as if fighting cats had rolled 
over it, oblivious to the sharp thorns. ShadowClan’s 
territory had suffered more than ThunderClan’s in the 
battle, it seemed. 


The ShadowClan camp lay in a hollow, concealed 
by a tangle of brambles and the low-growing branches 
of the pine trees that clustered around it. Tawnypelt 
trotted ahead of them down a narrow tunnel through 
the brambles; Bramblestar felt the tendrils scraping his 
sides as he followed. 

Blackstar was standing in the middle of the 
clearing when the ThunderClan patrol emerged from 
the tunnel. Rowanclaw, his deputy, stood at his 
shoulder, and more of the ShadowClan warriors had 
gathered around them. Littlecloud, the medicine cat, 
sat at one side of the open space, looking worried. 
Bramblestar was shocked to see how frail Blackstar 
looked. But then, the ShadowClan leader was much 
older than Graystripe and Dustpelt, and had led his 
Clan through the most terrible battle in their history, so 
perhaps it was no surprise that the seasons were 
showing in his patchy fur and gaunt frame. 

“T found this ThunderClan patrol heading through 
our territory,’ Tawnypelt explained. “Bramblestar says 
he needs to speak to you.” 

“Well, I’m here.” Blackstar’s tone was mild. 
“What do you want?” 


“Greetings, Blackstar.’ Bramblestar dipped his 
head to the old cat. “I’ve come to ask why my cats 
have found ShadowClan scent inside our borders.” 

“What?” Blackstar’s eyes stretched wide, though 
Bramblestar had a suspicion that his astonishment was 
feigned. “Your cats must be dreaming, Bramblestar. 
No ShadowClan warrior has crossed your borders.” 

“Are you saying we don’t know ShadowClan scent 
when we smell it?” Squirrelflight queried with a 
warning lash of her tail. 

‘Tve smelled it myself?’ Bramblestar meowed. 
“And it’s way inside our borders, beyond the clearing 
where Twolegs bring their pelt-dens.” 

“Then maybe you should strengthen your own 
scent marks,” Blackstar retorted with a sideways 
glance at Rowanclaw. “If you can’t be bothered to 
mark your borders, it’s not our fault if we stray across 
by a few paw steps.” 

“A few paw steps?” Squirrelflight spat 
disbelievingly. 

Bramblestar raised his tail to silence her. He could 
feel his own fur bristling, and all his instincts were 
telling him to leap at Blackstar and claw the smirk off 


his face. Firestar wouldnt have started a fight, he 
reminded himself. He would have known what to say 
to keep things peaceful. 

“We know what you’ve done,” he began. “What 
we don’t know is why. What reason—” 

He broke off as Ratscar, a skinny, brown elder, 
took a step forward. “What right do you have to 
question our leader?” he snarled. “Take yourself back 
to your own territory.” 

Bramblestar let out a hiss of anger, furious that a 
ShadowClan elder was trying to give him orders. 
Squirrelflight slid out her claws, and from behind him 
Bramblestar could hear low growls from Brackenfur 
and Cinderheart. 

“Ratscar has one paw in the Dark Forest,” 
Squirrelflight muttered into his ear. 

“And we decided to give those cats another 
chance to prove their loyalty, remember?” Bramblestar 
muttered back, forcing his fur to lie flat. 

Meanwhile Rowanclaw had shouldered Ratscar 
back into the group of ShadowClan cats. “That’s 
enough!” the deputy snapped. To Bramblestar he 
added, “Maybe we should both agree to strengthen the 


scent marks along that stretch of the border. That way 
we can be sure that no cat will trespass accidentally.” 

Bramblestar guessed that he wouldn’t get a full 
admission of guilt without unsheathing his claws. 
Reluctantly he nodded. “Very well” he meowed. “But 
be sure of this: ThunderClan will keep a very close 
watch on the border from now on.” 

“And so will ShadowClan,” Blackstar responded. 
“Now it’s time for you to go. Tawnypelt, escort them 
back to their own territory.” 

“We don’t need an escort, thanks,” Bramblestar 
told him. 

“No, we don't,” Squirrelflight agreed, just loud 
enough to be heard. “Do you think we’d stay one 
heartbeat more than we have to on your maggot-ridden 
territory?” 

“That’s enough!” Bramblestar hissed into her ear. 
Head and tail high, he turned and stalked out of the 
camp. Behind him he heard hostile snarls from the 
ShadowClan cats, and he took a deep breath to keep 
his fur flat and his claws sheathed. 

But as he and his cats headed for the border, 
Bramblestar heard the pattermg of paw steps behind 


him. He swung around, claws out, but the cat who was 
pursuing them was Littlecloud. 

“Greetings, Bramblestar,” he panted as he halted 
beside the patrol. “How are Leafpool and Jayfeather?” 

“They're fine.” It was Squirrelflight who replied. 
“They work together really well, and—” 

“Squirrelflight, that’s enough,’ Bramblestar 
interrupted. “We have to go. There’s work to do back 
in camp.” 

“But I was only—” Squirrelflight protested, then 
broke off when she caught Bramblestar’s eye. “Sorry, 
Littlecloud,’ she added as she turned to follow 
Bramblestar and her Clanmates. 

Littlecloud watched them go with a disappointed 
expression. 

“What did you do that for?” Squirrelflight 
demanded, trotting to catch up to Bramblestar. 
“Medicine cats don’t take part in quarrels between the 
Clans. Littlecloud was asking a genuine question.” 

“Yes, but we aren't medicine cats,” Bramblestar 
pointed out. Part of him sympathized with 
Squirrelflight, but since the Great Battle, obeying the 
code that kept the warriors of each Clan separate had 


never seemed more important. We have to show that 
we can survive on our own. Being too friendly, too 
compassionate, is a sign of weakness to our 
enemies. 

“We may be forced to fight ShadowClan to make 
them stay on ther own side of the border,’ he 
continued. “This isn’t the time to be gossiping with 
their medicine cat.” 

“We can’t possibly start another battle now!” 
Squirrelflight protested. 

Bramblestar halted, gazing into her eyes. “We 
might have to. ShadowClan might have been our ally 
when we faced the Dark Forest, but those cats are 
once again our rivals for every paw step of territory, 
every mouthful of prey. The Great Battle is over, but 
that doesn’t mean the Clans are at peace with one 
another.” 





CHAPTER 4 
> 


S 


By the time Bramblestar and his patrol returned to 
the hollow, the sun had climbed higher in the sky, 
casting unexpected heat for so early in newleaf. When 
Bramblestar pushed his way through the barrier of 
thorns, he saw that his Clanmates were basking in 
pools of sunlight, sharing tongues after completing the 
early patrols. 

Most of the cats sprang to their paws as soon as 
they noticed the patrol had returned. 

“What happened?” Poppyfrost called. 

“Yes, what did those crow-food eaters have to say 
for themselves?” Thornclaw asked. 

“And how are they coping after the Great Battle?” 
Cloudtail added. 

Bramblestar didn’t reply until he had padded into 
the center of the clearing and the Clan had gathered 
around him. “There’s still a lot of damage inside their 
territory.” He answered Cloudtail’s question first. “But 
their camp looks more or less back to normal.” 

“The ones we saw are terribly thin,’ Brackenfur 


put in. “Td guess prey’s not running too well for 
them.” 

“Good,” Spiderleg meowed, while Cloudtail gave a 
satisfied lash of his tail. 

Bramblestar felt a claw-scratch of uneasiness at 
his cats’ pleasure in the problems of a rival Clan. 

“What about the trespassing?” Mousewhisker 
demanded. “What did Blackstar have to say for 
himself?” 

“The ShadowClan cats insist that they crossed the 
border by accident,’ Bramblestar told him. “They 
advised us to renew our scent markers.” 

A chorus of indignation broke out. Whitewing’s 
voice rose above the clamor. “That’s mouse-brained! I 
renewed those scent markers myself yesterday!” 

“We all know that,” Squirrelflight assured her. 
“And ShadowClan knows perfectly well that there’s 
nothing wrong with our scent markers. But they’ll 
never admit that they trespassed.” 

“Then they need to be taught a lesson,” Thornclaw 
growled. 

Several of his Clanmates caterwauled their 
agreement. 


Bramblestar shook his head. “No cat will set paw 
over the border to attack ShadowClan,” he ordered, 
even though a prickling in his paws was urging him to 
disobey his own command. “Squirrelflight will organize 
extra patrols to refresh the markers, and that will make 
it clear to ShadowClan that we won’t tolerate any 
more invasions.” 

Ignoring the mutters of protest, he turned away. 
On the other side of the hollow, the bramble screen 
that covered the entrance to the medicine cats’ den 
was swept aside. Jayfeather padded out, followed a 
heartbeat later by Briarlight, who dragged herself 
forward with her front paws, her useless back legs 
trailing behind her. 

Bramblestar winced when he saw how frail the 
young she-cat looked. It was clear that she hadn’t fully 
recovered from the bout of greencough that every cat 
had expected would kill her. Her typical cheerfulness 
was muted, and she seemed to be using every scrap of 
her strength to keep her forepaws moving. 

“Briarlight!” Cinderheart bounded across to her. 
“Come over here, into this patch of sunshine.” 

The rest of the Clan huddled around her, the 


trouble with ShadowClan temporarily forgotten. 
Briarlight was popular; every cat admired her courage 
and was glad to see her leaving the medicine cats’ den 
after her long illness. 

“Look here,” Purdy meowed, padding over when 
Briarlight had flopped down in a sunny spot. A mouse 
dangled from his jaws. “Let's share this mouse, an’ PI 
tell you how I once chased a dog out of my 
Upwalker’s garden.” 

“No thanks, Purdy,” Briarlight mewed. “I’m not 
really hungry. But I’d love to hear the story,” she 
added hastily, as the old cat looked disappointed. 

‘Tve collected some thrush feathers for your 
nest,’ Snowpaw announced, bouncing up with the 
feathers in his jaws and one or two clinging to his pelt. 
“They’re really soft. I’Il go in now and make it all cozy 
for you.” 

“Thank you,” Briarlight called hoarsely after the 
apprentice as he dashed away. 

“You’re doing brilliantly, little one,” Millie praised 
her daughter, stroking the young cat’s shoulders with 
her tail. “It won’t be long before you’re feeling in top 
form again.” 


“I guess.” Briarlight sighed. She rested her chin on 
her paws and watched Millie walk over to the fresh-kill 
pile, where Graystripe was pulling feathers from a 
blackbird. 

Bramblestar padded over to Briarlight. “Is 
something up?” he asked. “Can I help?” 

Briarlight twitched her ears. “I doubt it.” She lifted 
her head and looked at Bramblestar with sky-colored 
eyes. “I’m fed up with being treated as if I’m special!” 
she confessed. “I just want to be like every other cat.” 

“What?” Bramblestar tried to sound amused. “You 
want to be like Purdy? Are you going to tell me a 
story? Or maybe you want to be like Spiderleg, too shy 
to speak to Daisy even though she’s been the mother 
of his kits? Or perhaps you want to be Dewpaw, and 
live in the apprentices’ den with your fur smelling of 
mouse bile? We’re all different,’ he reminded her 
briskly. 

Briarlight let out a small mrrow of laughter. “I 
know,” she mewed. “But sometimes it’s really difficult 
to be Briarlight.” 

Bramblestar gazed down at her, feeling helpless. 
He turned at the sound of paw steps. Leafpool had 


returned to the camp. Her pelt was dusty and there 
was dirt wedged under her claws from tending the 
herbs by the Twoleg nest. 

“Everything’s tidy over there,’ she reported to 
Jayfeather. “A little rain would help the catmint to 
grow.” 

“Jayfeather, I’m tired!” Briarlight called. “Pd like 
to go back to the den, please.” 

“But you've only been outside for a couple of 
heartbeats,” Jayfeather objected. 

“It’s not good for you to be shut up in there all by 
yourself,” Leafpool added. 

“T want to go back now,” Briarlight insisted. 

Jayfeather was opening his jaws to argue when 
Purdy, who had been sitting a tail-length away, nibbling 
at his mouse, brought the half-eaten prey over to 
Briarlight and dropped it at her paws. 

“You were going to help me with this,’ he 
reminded her. “I can’t finish it. An’ I haven’t told you 
my story yet.” 

“You’ve hardly eaten anything!” Briarlight scolded 
him. “Come on, share the rest with me, and I’ Il listen to 
the story.” 


Purdy flashed Bramblestar a knowing look as he 
tucked his paws underneath him and waited for 
Briarlight to take her first bite of mouse. “Well, there 
was this dog, see,’ he began. “Nasty, flea-bitten 
creature . . .” He paused as Briarlight swallowed her 
mouthful, and nudged the fresh-kill closer so she could 
take another bite. 

You clever old cat! Bramblestar thought. 

Beside him, Jayfeather was listening to Briarlight’s 
movements with his head on one side. Grunting in 
satisfaction, he straightened up and turned to 
Bramblestar. “Tt’s full moon tonight,” the medicine cat 
announced. “We missed the last Gathering because the 
sky was covered with clouds. It will be interesting to 
hear how the other Clans have coped with these last 
two moons of cold and hunger.” 

Bramblestar looked around for Squirrelflight and 
spotted her chatting with Graystripe beside the fresh- 
kill pile. He beckoned her over with a wave of his tail. 
“Which cats should we take to the Gathering tonight?” 
he asked her. 

His deputy thought for a moment. “Cloudtail and 
Cherryfall haven’t been for a while.” 


“True, and neither has Cinderheart,” Bramblestar 
mewed. “I think we should take all the apprentices, 
too.” 

Squirrelflight’s eyes stretched wide. “All five? You 
must be joking!” 

“Pm not. Lilypaw and Seedpaw missed their 
chance last moon, and it wouldn’t be fair not to take 
the other three as well. It’s time they found out what 
goes on at a Gathering.” 

Squirrelflight let out a snort of amusement. “If they 
get across the tree-bridge without one of them falling 
in, I’ ll eat my fur!” 

Bramblestar flicked her ear with his tail. “They’ll 
be fine.” Glancing around, he spotted Blossomfall and 
Thornclaw in the entrance to the warriors’ den. He felt 
his pelt prick with suspicion when he saw them with 
their heads together, and with a pang of guilt he 
swiveled his ears so he could hear what they were 
saying. 

“I hope I’m chosen to go to the Gathering,” 
Blossomfall murmured. 

“Me too,” Thornclaw agreed. “It’s been ages since 
we’ve seen the others.” 


Bramblestar’s uneasiness intensified. “I hope those 
two aren’t expecting to rekindle friendships they made 
in the Dark Forest,” he muttered. 

“We need to trust all our Clanmates equally.” 
Lionblaze spoke up from behind Bramblestar, who 
turned to face him. “What's done is done, and can’t be 
undone.” His golden gaze was fixed on Bramblestar. 
“In the end, our Clanmates realized where their 
loyalties lay.” 

Bramblestar nodded, remembering that during the 
Great Battle, as soon as the ThunderClan cats had 
realized that the Dark Forest warriors were bent on 
death and destruction, they had all switched their 
allegiances and fought fiercely for their own Clan. 

He saw Squirrelflight's gaze fixed on Thornclaw 
and Blossomfall, and knew that she struggled to 
forgive them. She lost so much in the Great Battle, 
Bramblestar thought. Her father, Firestar . . . and 
Hollyleaf, who was like a daughter to her. 

“I understand how you feel,” he whispered into 
Squirrelflight’s ear. “But if we treat them like outsiders, 
won’t that encourage them to start looking beyond the 
Clan again for support?” 


“Leafpool has volunteered to stay behind,” 
Jayfeather put in. “So I’Il be able to come.” 

“And I presume I can join you?” Lionblaze 
meowed. He half released his claws so that they 
flashed in the sunlight. “Just in case ShadowClan 
causes more trouble.” 

Bramblestar looked around at the three cats: his 
deputy, his medicine cat, and one of the Clan’s bravest 
warriors. But they meant far more than that to him. 
They are my family, he thought, even though they’re 
not my blood kin. These cats will always be the 
most precious parts of my life. He felt a jolt of grief 
as he pictured a black-furred cat with sharp green 
eyes. If Hollyleaf were still alive, my family would 
be whole once more. 


The sun had gone down when Bramblestar led his 
cats out of the hollow and down toward the lake. The 
horizon was still streaked with scarlet, and the surface 
of the water reflected the dying glow. Bramblestar 
looked up to see the moon, a huge silver circle, hanging 
above the trees in a clear indigo sky. 

Amberpaw let out a yowl of excitement as the lake 


came into sight. She charged down the slope toward it, 
with her two littermates hard on her paws. Lilypaw 
and Seedpaw glanced at each other as if they were far 
too mature for such overexcited behavior, then 
squealed, “Wait for us!” and pelted after them. 

“Hey, be careful!” Squirrelflight called after them. 

Amberpaw and Dewpaw skidded to a halt at the 
water’s edge in a shower of pebbles. But Snowpaw 
couldn’t stop in time. He splashed into the lake; his 
squeal of alarm was cut off as his head went under the 
surface and he vanished. 

“Fox dung!” Bramblestar spat. 

With a lash of his tail he raced for the lake, with 
Cloudtail, Snowpaw’s father, bounding along at his 
shoulder. As Bramblestar reached the edge of the 
water, he caught a brief glimpse of Snowpaw 
resurfacing with his paws flailing. Bramblestar plunged 
toward him and managed to grab Snowpaw by the 
scruff before he sank again. 

Digging his paws into the pebbly lakebed, 
Bramblestar carried the apprentice back to the shore. 
Cloudtail leaned over Snowpaw as Bramblestar set 
him down on solid ground. The other apprentices 


gathered around anxiously. 

“Are you completely flea-brained?” Cloudtail 
demanded. “If I were Clan leader, Pd send you 
straight back to camp!” 

Snowpaw coughed up a mouthful of water and 
struggled to his paws. “I—I’m sorry!” he gasped. “I 
didn’t mean to fall in. I think the lake is bigger than it 
used to be.” 

Bramblestar looked around. “He’s right,’ he 
commented, noting how far up the shore the water had 
risen. Its the end of leaf-bare, and we've had a lot 
of rain. 

“Look at the size of the moon,” Brackenfur put in, 
joining them. “The lake is always fuller when the moon 
is extra big.” 

Bramblestar stepped back to give his pelt a shake 
without splattering his Clanmates. “I won’t send you 
home,” he told Snowpaw. “But let’s have no more 
silliness, okay?” 

“Okay,” Snowpaw mewed. “Thank you, 
Bramblestar.” 

“You’d better run around to get dry,” Cloudtail 
advised. “And remember, I’m keeping an eye on you.” 


Snowpaw ducked his head briefly before 
scampering off with the other apprentices. 

“He’s no worse for his wetting,’ Bramblestar 
observed. “I can’t be too hard on him. I remember 
how excited I was about my first Gathering, back at 
Fourtrees.” 

“You?” Squirrelflight let out a snort of amusement. 
“You were cool as frost!” 

Bramblestar gave her a friendly flick with his tail. 
“Not like you, then! You couldn’t see a thornbush 
without getting stuck in it. I remember—” 

“We don’t have time for stories,” Squirrelflight 
interrupted. “Are we going to the Gathering or not?” 

The ThunderClan cats followed the shoreline until 
they reached the stream that marked the border with 
WindClan. Bramblestar kept an eye on the five 
apprentices to make sure that they had no problems 
jumping across the steep-sided brook. 

“Wow, we're on WindClan territory!” Dewpaw 
exclaimed when he landed. 

“What happens if a WindClan patrol spots us?” 
Amberpaw asked. “Do we fight? I know a great 
move!” 


“No, we don’t fight,’ Cinderheart told her. “The 
ground three fox-lengths from the lake doesn’t belong 
to any Clan, so we can travel safely as long as we 
don’t take any prey.” 

“But what about the water level?” Dewpaw 
pointed out. “The safe ground has been swallowed 
up!” 

Bramblestar realized the apprentice was right. 
Judging from what he recognized on the grassy slope 
—and it was difficult with so few markers here on the 
open moor—they were already standing above the 
three-fox-length boundary. 

The five apprentices huddled together, darting 
scared glances up at the rest of WindClan’s territory. 
“We can’t go to the Gathering after all” Seedpaw 
mewed, her tail drooping with disappointment. 
“Lilypaw and I missed it last moon, too. It’s not fair!” 

“Of course we can go,” Cinderheart reassured her. 
“We measure the safe ground from wherever the 
water starts.” Unseen by the apprentices, she glanced 
questioningly at Bramblestar. He nodded, hoping that 
WindClan would agree. 

There was no sign of other cats until the 


ThunderClan patrol drew close to the far border. Then 
the WindClan cats came pouring over the ridge, briefly 
outlined against the darkening sky. Their leader, 
Onestar, was a few paw steps ahead of the rest, with 
his new deputy, Harespring, just behind him. 

Bramblestar saw the eyes of the WindClan 
warriors gleam with thinly veiled hostility when they 
saw the ThunderClan patrol. He guessed they were 
remembering the recent skirmish by the stream, and he 
felt himself bristling in response. He walked forward 
until he stood face-to-face with Onestar. 

“Greetings, Onestar,” he meowed. “A fine night for 
a Gathering.” 

Onestar gave him a curt nod. “Greetings to you, 
Bramblestar.” 

Suddenly aware of pushing and growls of anger 
behind him, Bramblestar whipped around to see the 
WindClan cats jostling his Clanmates. Cherryfall 
slipped on the wet pebbles and almost lost her balance. 
Bramblestar felt his neck fur rise and knew that truce 
or no truce, a fight was about to break out. What is 
WindClan trying to prove? 

“Please, Onestar,” he mewed, struggling to keep 


his voice steady, “take your warriors on ahead. With 
the water so high, we don’t want any accidents.” 

Onestar dipped his head. “Thank you, 
Bramblestar.” Waving his tail to his warriors, he added, 
“Follow me.” 

Muttered protests rose from the ThunderClan cats 
as the WindClan cats trotted along the lakeshore. 

“If they want trouble, we can give it to them,” 
Thornclaw snarled. 

“Don't be a mouse-brain!” Squirrelflight hissed at 
him. “Strike the first blow, and we ‘d be the Clan who 
broke the truce. Beside, respect costs nothing, and we 
are on their territory.” 

While he waited for the WindClan cats to draw 
ahead, Bramblestar spotted two sets of eyes gleaming 
from farther up the slope, on the other side of the 
border. He peered through the half light, but he 
couldn’t make out who the eyes belonged to. 

“Daisy!” he called, turning back to his cats. 

The cream-furred she-cat slid between her 
Clanmates and padded up to him. She didn’t often 
attend Gatherings, and now she looked startled to be 
called forward. 


“Look up there,’ Bramblestar murmured, pointing 
with his tail to where the eyes still shone. “Do you 
know who that is?” 

Daisy took a breath, tasting the air. “Smoky!” she 
exclaimed, naming the cat who had been her friend 
when they both lived at the horseplace. Bramblestar 
couldn’t count the moons since she had last seen him, 
but she clearly hadn’t forgotten him. “Hey, Smoky, it’s 
me!” she yowled, raising her voice. 

The eyes vanished abruptly. 

Daisy’s tail drooped. “I wonder why he didn’t want 
to talk to me.” 

“I wouldn't let it worry you,” Bramblestar 
responded, resting his tail on Daisy’s shoulder. “Seeing 
a whole crowd of us has probably put him off.” 

“T guess so,” Daisy agreed. 

Since the WindClan cats had vanished into the 
twilight, Bramblestar led his cats across the marshy 
ground until they reached the tree-bridge that joined 
the lakeshore to the island. The water was so high that 
waves lapped the bottom of the trunk. Cherryfall 
trotted across first without even looking down at the 
lake, and the rest of the patrol streamed after her. 


Bramblestar kept a close eye on the apprentices, but 
after Snowpaw’s dunking they all took great care in 
placing their paws in the center of the tree trunk, even 
though they were quivering with excitement again. 

Bramblestar shouldered his way into the lead as 
they forced their way through the bushes into the 
clearing in the middle of the island. The wide-reaching 
branches of the Great Oak cast slender black shadows 
across the moonlit ground. The other three Clans had 
already arrived, circling like fish in the open space. 

The WindClan cats huddled together at one side, 
casting hostile glances at the other Clans as if they 
didn’t trust any cat to abide by the truce. 

“At least it’s not just us that they have problems 
with,” Brackenfur murmured into Bramblestar’s ear. 

“I suppose that’s some comfort,” Bramblestar 
whispered back. 

Glancing around the clearing, he realized that 
WindClan was not the only Clan looking ill at ease. 
ShadowClan seemed restless, and divided into little 
muttering groups rather than standing together. 
Bramblestar wondered if Blackstar was too old and 
frail to pull his Clan together after the Great Battle, and 


whether some cats were already looking forward to a 
younger, stronger leader. 

“What’s going on with RiverClan?” Squirrelflight 
muttered. 

The usually sleek-furred cats looked nervous and 
ruffled as they clustered around their leader, Mistystar. 
Some of them were limping, or favoring paws with 
visibly ripped claws. What in the name of StarClan 
have they been doing to end up so battered? 
Bramblestar’s curiosity grew as he realized that it was 
the strongest warriors who showed most signs of hard, 
physical effort. 

“Something’s wrong, that’s for sure,” he replied. 

Mistystar left her Clanmates to thread her way 
across the clearing and jump into the branches of the 
Great Oak. Bramblestar realized it was time to begin 
the Gathering. He thrust a path through the crowd of 
cats and joined Mistystar in the tree. 

Squirrelflight followed him to sit with the other 
deputies on the roots of the oak, while the medicine 
cats gathered nearby. Onestar jumped up into the tree 
beside Bramblestar, but Blackstar remained on the 
ground. Bramblestar tensed. Was the ShadowClan 


leader going to do this at every Gathering? 

Blackstar waited until the other cats had found 
places to sit, and then announced, “Let us remember 
the fallen.” An uneasy silence settled over the clearing 
as he continued. “From ShadowClan: Redwillow, 
Shredtail, Toadfoot, Shrewfoot,  Starlngwing, 
Olivenose, Applefur, Cedarheart, Tallpoppy, and 
Weasekit. From ThunderClan: Firestar, Hollyleaf, 
Mousefur, Ferncloud, Sorreltail, Foxleap. From 
WindClan: Ashfoot, Owlwhisker, Swallowtail, 
Thistleheart . . .” 

Bramblestar twitched his tail uncomfortably. 
Shouldnt I be the one to speak the names from 
ThunderClan, and Onestar recall his WindClan 
Clanmates, if we have to do this at all? 

At the first Gathering after the Great Battle, 
Blackstar had offered to recite the names of the cats 
who had died. Back then it had seemed appropriate, 
but Bramblestar wasn’t sure if they needed to begin 
every Gathering like this. He sensed that the other 
leaders shared his uneasiness, and when Blackstar 
began to announce the RiverClan names, Mistystar 
stood up and balanced gracefully on her branch. 


“Blackstar,” she interrupted with an edge to her 
voice, “none of us have forgotten the Clanmates that 
we lost to the Dark Forest. Let us remember our fallen 
in our own way. Since when have you spoken for all of 
us?” 





CHAPTER 5 
> 


GQ 


Blackstar looked up at the WindClan leader; 
Bramblestar could see shock and horror in his eyes. 

“These cats are still with us, watching the 
Clanmates they died to save!” Blackstar protested. 
“We need to honor their memory!” 

“But Blackstar,’ Mistystar mewed more gently, 
“life moves on, just like the seasons. We don’t list 
every piece of prey we’ve eaten in the last moon, or 
remember every fallen leaf.” 

Blackstar looked even more outraged. “Our 
Clanmates are not prey and fallen leaves!” he gasped. 

“I didn’t mean. . .” Mistystar began, but she was 
drowned by a growing clamor from the cats in the 
clearing. ShadowClan supported their leader, but many 
of the others were obviously as unhappy as 
Bramblestar about the List of the Fallen. 

“Why aren’t we capable of honoring our own 
dead?” Cloudtail demanded. 

“And why is Blackstar the only cat allowed to 
speak?” Crowfeather challenged from WindClan. 


Bramblestar jumped to his paws, waving his tail for 
silence. This wasn’t an issue to break the truce over. 
“I agree with Mistystar,” he meowed when he could 
make himself heard. “Each Clan should be allowed to 
remember the fallen in its own way.” 

Blackstar’s neck fur bristled and he drew his lips 
back in a snarl. “You are too quick to forget that we 
fought as one Clan against the Dark Forest.” 

“But we are not one Clan now,” Bramblestar 
reminded him. “We are four Clans, just as we were 
before.” 

Blackstar whirled around and began to stalk away 
from the Great Oak. “My Clan will not stay to hear our 
dead warriors scorned by the other Clans!” he hissed. 
“You all owe them a debt, just as we do.” 

Instantly his deputy, Rowanclaw, jumped up from 
his place on the oak roots and ran after his leader. 
“Come back, Blackstar,” he urged. “No cat has shown 
any disrespect to us. Things are changing, that’s all.” 
As Blackstar halted, looking bewildered, Rowanclaw 
added, “Each Clan faces new challenges, and nothing 
stays the same forever. Look at ShadowClan: We’re 
not weak and broken now as we were after the battle. 


No, we’re a Clan you can be proud of. And we owe 
that to you, our leader.” 

After a long pause, Blackstar turned and 
scrambled up into the Great Oak to take his place with 
the other leaders. Bramblestar sought out his sister 
Tawnypelt and met her gaze, giving her a nod to 
acknowledge Rowanclaw’s well-judged words. 
Tawnypelt’s green eyes glowed with pride in her mate. 

“Thank you, Blackstar,’ Mistystar meowed, 
dipping her head to the ShadowClan leader. “You can 
be sure that all the Clans will remember their dead for 
as long as the forest lasts.” Raising her eyes to the 
stars, she went on, “Ancestors of all the Clans, look 
down on us here and guide us through the hard days to 
come. Welcome the new starry warriors among you, 
and keep the memory of them fresh in our minds. We 
honor them, and all of you, now and always.” 

A ripple swept through the clearing like wind 
through grass as each cat bowed his or her head to 
hear Mistystar’s prayer. 

“Now,”  Mistystar continued more briskly, 
“moonlight is passing, and we still haven't begun. I’ll 
go first, shall I?” She glanced briefly at the other 


leaders, then announced, “We have had to move our 
camp a little farther back from the lake, because the 
water level is so high. But all is well, and there’s still a 
good supply of fish.” 

Bramblestar caught Squirrelflight’s eye below him. 
Thats why the RiverClan warriors look so tired 
and pawsore, and why they seem so unsettled. 

“And we have new kits in RiverClan,” Mistystar 
reported, with a satisfied swish of her tail. “Petalfur 
gave birth to a she-cat and two toms.” 

Bramblestar spotted the brown tabby warrior 
Mallownose looking very proud. He must be the 
father. 

As the other cats murmured congratulations, 
Mistystar stepped back. “Would you like to speak next, 
Blackstar?” 

The ShadowClan leader rose to his paws. 
Bramblestar thought that he looked older than ever, 
white as bone against the dark branches. “ShadowClan 
is strong and thriving,” he announced. “Snowbird has 
had three kits, all she-cats.” 

He sank back down on his branch, while below in 
the clearing Scorchfur looked smug, licking one paw 


and passing it over his ear. 

Onestar stood up. “There’s excellent hunting in 
WindClan,” he reported. “Birds have been coming 
inland from the sun-drown-place, blown by the wind. 
They don’t seem to be comfortable landing on grass, 
which makes them easy to catch. And although we 
have no new kits yet, we expect good news soon.” 

His gaze rested on Sedgewhisker, who gave her 
chest fur a couple of embarrassed licks, and leaned 
into her mate, Emberfoot. 

Bramblestar’s pads prickled with disquiet as he 
stepped to the end of his branch and looked out over 
the cats. Why are the other leaders making such a 
big deal about new kits? It’s barely newleaf; there's 
plenty of time to fill the nursery. “We have been 
strengthening our boundaries,” he announced, his tail- 
tip twitching. Pay attention, ShadowClan and 
WindClan! “And five new apprentices have begun 
their training: Lilypaw, Seedpaw, Amberpaw, 
Snowpaw, and Dewpaw. Lilypaw and Seedpaw have 
been apprentices for three moons, but this is their first 
Gathering. All are learning fast, and will make 
excellent warriors.” 


“Lilypaw!” 

“Seedpaw!” 

“Amberpaw!” 

“Snowpaw!” 

“Dewpaw!” 

As their names were yowled to the star-filled sky, 
the five young cats sat up straight, their eyes burning 
with pride. Bramblestar jumped as wind rattled the 
branches above him, and the Great Oak creaked in the 
cold blast. A scrap of cloud drifted across the moon, 
briefly dimming the silver light that bathed the island. 

“The Gathering is over!” Onestar called out. 

The cats on the ground began to break up into 
smaller groups. As he leaped down from the tree, 
Bramblestar spotted Squirrelflight staring at Tigerheart 
and Ratscar from ShadowClan, who were chatting 
with Cherryfall and Ivypool. 

“You look like a hawk sizing up its prey,” he 
meowed as he slipped through the crowd of cats to 
Squirrelflight’s side. “Tigerheart and Ratscar are just 
being friendly.” 

“There are some cats I’ll never be able to trust 
again,” Squirrelflight growled. 


“They’re not your Clanmates; you don’t have to 
trust them,” Bramblestar murmured. “But you can’t 
make them enemies because of a mistake they made 
in the past.” 

Squirrelflight let out a snort. “I bet I can.” 

Bramblestar didn’t bother to argue. He knew it 
would take a long time for his deputy to put aside her 
mistrust of any cat who had been led astray by the 
warriors of the Dark Forest. He struggled himself with 
the knowledge of what a few of his Clanmates had 
done. Some wounds are slow to heal. Instead he 
looked around for his sister Tawnypelt, and spotted her 
squeezing through a group of her Clanmates as she 
made her way toward him. 

“Hi,” she purred, touching noses with him. “It’s 
good to see you, Bramblestar.” 

“And you,” Bramblestar replied. “Rowanclaw did 
a brilliant job with Blackstar.” 

Tawnypelt's purr deepened. “I know. Rowanclaw 
is great.” 

“And he”Il make a good leader,” Bramblestar went 
on. “It can’t be long now. .. .” 

Instantly Tawnypelt’s neck fur bristled. “Are you 


suggesting that Blackstar is too old to lead us?” she 
growled. “Because you’re wrong! Blackstar is fine.” 

“Okay, okay!” Bramblestar took a pace back. 
“Keep your pelt on!” 

Tawnypelt lashed her tail once, then pressed her 
muzzle into her brother’s shoulder. “Take care, you 
stupid furball,’ she meowed as she turned to rejoin her 
Clanmates. 

Bramblestar noticed that Tigerheart was still 
talking to Ivypool, though Cherryfall and Ratscar had 
moved on. Faintly curious, he eased his way into 
earshot. 

“Where’s Dovewing?” Tigerheart was asking. 

Ivypool had a guarded look, and her tone was 
distant as she replied. “She’s in the camp.” 

“With Bumblestripe?” Tigerheart glanced around 
as if he was looking for the pale gray tom. 

“I don’t think that’s any of your business,” Ivypool 
retorted. 

Bramblestar wondered why Tigerheart would want 
to see Dovewing. Cats in other Clans never learned 
about the Three s special powers, so it cant be that 
he wants her to see something far away. 


The tiny incident reminded Bramblestar that the 
Clans needed to live separately now. He would always 
be proud of the cats for coming together to fight 
against the Dark Forest. I’m honored to have fought 
alongside them, but that time has passed. We need 
to reinforce the borders of our territories, and the 
boundaries that we cant see, the ones between cat 
and cat. 

On his way across the clearing he paused to chat 
with Pouncetail, a RiverClan elder, who began telling 
him a long, complicated story about catching fish. 
Maybe I should introduce him to Purdy, Bramblestar 
thought. He was distracted from the tale by a sharp 
prod in his side, and turned to see Squirrelflight. 

“You need to give the signal to leave,” she hissed. 
“WindClan and ShadowClan have already gone.” 

Embarrassment stabbed through Bramblestar. / 
forgot that’s my job now! 

“You're the leader now,” Pouncetail teased him 
gently. “You have to make all the hard decisions. 
You’re lucky to have Squirrelflight to keep you in line!” 

“I certainly am,” Bramblestar agreed. Watching 
Squirrelflight as she began efficiently rounding up their 


Clanmates, he added to himself, /’d be lost without 
her as my deputy. 


Bramblestar returned to camp with the dawn patrol 
just as the sun burned off the last of the early mist. Its 
going to be another warm day, he thought. 

As he emerged from the thorns, Bramblestar was 
surprised to see Daisy pacing nervously in front of the 
nursery. As soon as she spotted him she came 
bounding over. 

“Bramblestar, I’m so worried!” she burst out. 

“What’s the matter?” Bramblestar asked, resting 
his tail on the she-cat’s shoulder. 

“Its Smoky and Floss at the horseplace,” Daisy 
replied. “I think Smoky was waiting for us when we 
were going to the Gathering, but he was too scared to 
come and talk to us.” 

Bramblestar wasn’t convinced. “He might just 
have been watching—” 

“No, why would he?” Daisy interrupted, working 
her paws anxiously into the earth. “Those cats stay out 
of the way of the Clans. Please, Bramblestar, let me 
go to the horseplace and make sure everything’s 


okay.” 

Bramblestar hesitated for a moment, gazing into 
Daisy’s eyes and seeing her fear for her friends. 
“Okay, but I'll go with you.” 

“You don’t have to!” Daisy meowed. “You're the 
leader of ThunderClan. You must have more important 
things to do.” 

“This might be important too,’ Bramblestar 
insisted. “We’ll go together, after sunhigh.” 

Daisy let out a long purr, blinking up at him 
gratefully. “Thank you, Bramblestar.” 

As she headed back to the nursery, Graystripe 
joined Bramblestar. 

“What did Daisy want?” the gray warrior 
meowed. He looked surprised when Bramblestar 
explained. “She wants to go back to the horseplace? 
Do you think she’s considering leaving ThunderClan?” 
He puffed out a brief sigh. “Maybe the Great Battle 
scared her too much.” 

“That was several moons ago,’ Bramblestar 
pointed out. “If Daisy was scared, she would have left 
right away.” 

“Then maybe it’s because the nursery is empty,” 


Graystripe suggested, flicking his tail toward the 
deserted bramble-covered den. “Maybe Daisy feels 
there’s no place for her here anymore, with no queens 
or kits to care for.” 

Bramblestar dug his claws into the ground. Why is 
every cat always talking about kits? “Wait until 
newleaf,” he meowed. “The nursery will fill up then.” 
He cast a hopeful glance at Millie, who was eating a 
sparrow beside the fresh-kill pile. “I don’t suppose . . . 
9» 

Graystripe shook his head. “Our days of having 
kits are gone,” he replied, sounding amused. “There 
are plenty of young cats around to do that duty.” 

But none of the she-cats are expecting kits, 
Bramblestar thought bleakly. 


Sunhigh was just past when Bramblestar and 
Daisy set out toward the edge of the lake. Before they 
were halfway down the slope to the lake, Bramblestar 
noticed that Daisy was limping. Her paws are sore 
after the long walk to the Gathering, he thought. 
She's not used to traveling far outside the hollow. 

“Are you sure you don't want to put this off to 


another day?” he asked. 

“Oh, no, PI be fine!” Daisy assured him. “I don’t 
want to wait before I see Smoky and Floss again.” 

On the lakeshore, Bramblestar spotted Ivypool, 
Spiderleg, and Whitewing practicing battle moves with 
their apprentices. As he and Daisy drew closer, the 
three young cats dived into the undergrowth that edged 
the stones. 

What are they up to? Bramblestar wondered. 

Suddenly Amberpaw and Dewpaw exploded out of 
the ferns and hurled themselves on top of Daisy. She 
let out a startled yowl as her paws skidded out from 
under her, and lay shaking on the ground. 

“Get off her, you stupid furballs!” Bramblestar 
growled, grabbing Amberpaw by the scruff and hauling 
her off. He gave Dewpaw a hard shove with his hind 
paws. “What do you think you’re playing at?” 

The three mentors came bounding up, while 
Snowpaw emerged from the bushes looking relieved 
that for once he wasn’t the cat in trouble. 

“We were practicing our stalking!” Amberpaw 
mewed. 

“You didn’t hear us coming, did you?” Dewpaw 


added. 

“Are you mouse-brained?” Whitewing hissed. 
“You should be ashamed of yourselves, attacking an 
unprepared cat—and a cat who wasn’t threatening 
you.” 

“Right,” Spiderleg agreed, giving Amberpaw a 
hard cuff around the ear. “Learn to recognize a real 
enemy!” 

“Pm so sorry,” Whitewing mewed to Daisy, who 
was sitting up, looking flustered. “Are you okay?” 

“I'm fine,’ Daisy replied, shaking her pelt to 
remove the dirt, then giving herself a quick groom to 
settle her ruffled fur. 

Ivypool gave both apprentices a sharp prod. 
“Apologize ... now!” 

Both apprentices were looking dismayed. Daisy 
helped raise them when they were in the nursery, 
Bramblestar recalled. Shes the last cat they’d want 
to hurt. 

“We're very sorry,” Dewpaw mewed, nuzzling 
Daisy’s shoulder. “We’ll make it up to you.” 

“TIl catch a vole and bring it to the nursery later,” 
Amberpaw promised. “I know that’s your favorite!” 


“And Pll collect some thrush feathers and make 
your nest really soft,’ Dewpaw added. 

Daisy gave both the young cats an affectionate lick 
around the ears. “It’s okay,” she mewed. “I know you 
were just practicing. I'll look forward to the vole and 
the feathers, though!” 

“They didn’t mean to give you a scare,” 
Bramblestar meowed as he and Daisy continued 
toward the stream that marked the edge of their 
territory. 

“Oh, I know,” Daisy replied with a flip of her tail. 
“All apprentices get it wrong sometimes. And it was a 
pretty good attack move!” 

Bramblestar purred in agreement, admiring Daisy 
for her quick recovery and her clear sympathy for the 
apprentices. Its too easy to forget what she does for 
our kits in the nursery, he thought. He remembered 
Ferncloud’s words when she gave him one of his nine 
lives. She had warned him never to underestimate the 
cats who provided the Clan with its new members, and 
helped to raise them. And she was right. Daisy 
deserves as much honor and respect as any 
warrior. 


With a surge of optimism, he sprang over the 
border stream and picked up the pace until he was 
running along the shore below the open stretch of 
moorland. Daisy followed him, though she soon 
dropped behind. Bramblestar halted and waited for her 
to catch up. 

“Sorry!” she panted. “I’m not used to this. Maybe 
I should run a bit more often.” 

Bramblestar let her set the pace until they reached 
the marsh; then they followed the WindClan border up 
the slope until they reached the fence around the 
horseplace. Daisy flattened herself to the ground and 
slid underneath. As Bramblestar followed he felt the 
ground begin to shake, and looked up to see three 
enormous horses galloping across the field toward 
them. He crouched down with his tail curled around 
him, waiting for one of the huge feet to land on him 
and crush his bones as it stamped him into the ground. 

“It’s okay,” Daisy meowed. “Even I can run faster 
than them. Come this way.” 

Bramblestar rose to his paws and gave his pelt a 
shake, feeling hot with embarrassment. He followed 
Daisy as she slipped along the fence toward a line of 


bushes. They looked too thick to find a way through, 
and Bramblestar was conscious of the horses drawing 
closer like rolls of thunder. But Daisy dived into a 
narrow gap between two gnarled stems and vanished 
out of sight. Bramblestar forced his way in after her, 
feeling thorns tug at his pelt as he scrambled through. 
A moment later he popped into the open on the other 
side; behind him the rumbling hoofbeats stopped and he 
heard the horses snorting in frustration. 

He realized that his fur was bristling with terror 
and forced it to lie flat again. Daisy was watching him 
with a glint of amusement in her eyes. “There are 
different sorts of danger here,” she commented. “Not 
so many Dark Forest cats, but a lot more living 
horses!” 

“True,” Bramblestar grunted. “Lead the way, 
Daisy.” 

As they headed toward the small wooden barn, 
Bramblestar spotted Smoky watching them from his 
perch on a fencepost. His eyes glowed with pleasure 
as he leaped down to touch noses with Daisy. 

“Its great to see you!” he purred. He sounded 
more wary as he turned to Bramblestar. “I’ve met you 


before, haven’t I?” he meowed. “Back when you 
were a young cat, I think.” 

“He’s Clan leader now!” Daisy told the gray-and- 
white tom. 

“Really?” Smoky didn’t sound impressed. 

“Where’s Floss?” Daisy asked, looking around. “I 
can’t wait to see her again.” 

Smoky bowed his head, and his voice was somber 
as he replied, “Floss is dead.” 

“No!” Daisy exclaimed. “How did it happen?” 

“She caught greencough,” Smoky explained. “The 
Twolegs tried to treat her, but it was no use.” 

For a few heartbeats Daisy was too upset to 
speak. She flexed her front claws, ripping up the turf. 
Smoky pressed himself to her side. “If you like, PI 
show you where she’s buried,” he mewed. 

Daisy nodded mutely. Bramblestar followed a pace 
or two behind as Smoky led Daisy around the back of 
the barn to a small mound of fresh earth. 

“Pip’s buried here, too,” Smoky told her. “You 
remember the dog? He was an annoying little flea-pelt, 
but now that he’s gone, I kinda miss him.” 

Daisy turned a shocked look on the horseplace cat. 


“So much has happened!” she gasped. “And I’m only 
a moment’s travel away. How could I not have 
known?” 

Smoky shrugged. “I know I’m not welcome in the 
woods or on the moor. Besides, Daisy, you made the 
choice to leave us. We have to respect that.” 

For a heartbeat, Bramblestar thought Daisy looked 
as though she was regretting her decision. Movement 
at the comer of his eye distracted him. He turned to 
see a young she-cat appear around the side of the 
barn, her tortoiseshell-and-white pelt shining in the 
sunlight. 

“You're new here,” Daisy commented as the 
newcomer bounded up. There was an edge to her 
tone, and her fur began to fluff up. “Who are you?” 

“This is Coriander,’ Smoky mewed, brushing his 
pelt against the tortoiseshell cat. “She replaced Floss. 
She’s a great mouser!” 

“Replaced Floss?” Daisy sounded even more 
upset. “How can any cat replace Floss?” 

Bramblestar rested his tail-tip on her shoulder, 
trying to warn her silently that there was no point in 
getting agitated. Daisy seemed to understand, and took 


a deep breath. “Greetings,” she meowed, dipping her 
head to Coriander. 

The young she-cat didn’t return the gesture. “You 
must be some of those weird cats from the woods,” 
she mewed. “What are you doing here?” 

“Just visiting,” Daisy told her through gritted teeth. 
“Was that you watching us go to the island last night?” 
she asked Smoky. 

Smoky nodded. “Yes, Coriander wanted to see 
these famous cats, and I know that you all go to the 
island on the night of the full moon, so we lay in wait.” 

“You should have come to talk to us,” Daisy 
meowed. 

“Well. . .” Smoky scuffled his paws awkwardly in 
the grass. “We didn’t want to interrupt anything.” 

“Okay.” Daisy’s shoulders sagged, and 
Bramblestar could see that the visit wasn’t turning out 
the way she had hoped. “T guess it’s time we left.” 

“Don't you want to see inside the barn?” Smoky 
asked. “You can hunt if you want.” 

Daisy didn’t look enthusiastic, but she followed 
Smoky and Coriander as they headed for the entrance 
to the barn. Bramblestar trotted just behind her. Inside, 


the wood-sided den was warm and musty. It was 
much smaller than the barn where Barley and 
Ravenpaw used to live near the old forest, but it 
smelled the same, of dust and dried grass and tempting 
scents of prey. Golden dust motes danced in shafts of 
sunlight that slanted in through holes just beneath the 
roof. Scuffling noises in the piles of hay showed the 
presence of mice, and Bramblestar’s mouth watered. 

“It’s all changed,” Daisy commented. “You used to 
have your nest over here.” 

“T know,” Smoky responded. “But Coriander says 
it’s less drafty over there.” He indicated a deep hollow 
in the hay with a flick of his tail. 

“Yes,” Coriander agreed. “It’s so comfortable!” 

Bramblestar saw Daisy’s claws slide out, and gave 
her a hasty nudge. “We really should be getting back,” 
he mewed. 

Daisy nodded. “Yes, there’s loads to do back in the 
camp.” 

“Good-bye, then.” Smoky sounded quite cheerful 
to let Daisy go, and Bramblestar noticed he didn’t 
invite her to drop in again. 

“Do be careful on your way home,” Coriander 


added with a gleam in her amber eyes. “The horses 
can be quite scary if you’re not used to them.” 

“Im fine with horses, thanks,” Daisy snapped, 
whipping around and stalking out of the barn with her 
tail held high. Resisting a purr of amusement, 
Bramblestar followed her. 

On the journey back through WindClan territory, 
Daisy was unusually quiet. 

Bramblestar thought he should say something. “It’s 
always hard to go back,” he offered sympathetically. 

Daisy halted and stared at him. “I didn’t want to go 
back!” she protested. “Not forever. I know I belong in 
ThunderClan now, but I hadn’t expected things to 
change so much. Why didn’t I know that Floss had 
died? Has Smoky forgotten about her already because 
of Coriander? I thought he loved Floss!” 

For a moment, an image of Squirrelflight flashed 
into Bramblestar’s mind. She was standing in the 
hollow surrounded by three fluffed-up kits, trying to 
coax them to eat a piece of vole. 

“We want milk!” squeaked the she-cat, as black as 
a yew branch. 

“Not that nasty stuff,” put in the golden tabby tom, 


prodding the vole with one stubby paw. 

“It smells like the dirtplace,” chirped the smallest 
kit, whose pale gray fur blended with the cliffs behind 
him. 

“It does not smell like the dirtplace!” Squirrelflight 
scolded. She looked up and met Bramblestar’s gaze. 
She looked ruffled, her pelt ungroomed and her eyes 
clouded with exhaustion, but he had never loved her 
more. 

“Any cat would think I was trying to poison them!” 
she hissed to him. 

He blinked at her. “You’re a great mother,’ he 
assured her. “They’ Il know that one day.” 

A stone rolling out from beneath his paw jolted 
Bramblestar back to the present. Beside him, Daisy 
looked sad as she mourned the loss of her friends. 

“Nothing stays the same,” Bramblestar told her, 
brushing her ear with his muzzle. However much you 
want it to. 





CHAPTER 6 
> 


S 


On the day after the visit to the horseplace, the 
weather changed. A fierce wind lashed the trees and 
sent clouds scudding across the sky. The forest floor 
was littered with splintered branches, and Bramblestar 
warned all his cats to look out for signs of falling trees. 
He continued to keep a close watch on the 
ShadowClan border, but there were no more traces of 
trespassing. 

“Maybe they’ve learned their lesson,” he remarked 
as he led a patrol past the pelt-den clearing. 

“And maybe they’re just keeping quiet until we 
relax the watch,” Molewhisker growled with a flick of 
his tail. 

“Let’s enjoy the peace while it lasts,’ Sandstorm 
suggested. 

Bramblestar murmured agreement. He headed 
down the stream until the patrol emerged from the 
trees on the lakeshore. 

Blossomfall ran ahead and sprang onto a rock at 
the water’s edge. She studied the smooth gray stone 


beneath her paws. “The lake is still rising!” she 
announced. “I’ve been scratching marks on this rock, 
and—” She broke off with a yowl as a wave rose up 
and engulfed the rock. As the water rolled back, it 
carried Blossomfall with it and she plunged into the 
lake. She flailed with her paws, managing to keep her 
head above water, but the waves buffeted her too 
much for her to make it back to the shore. 

“Blossomfall!” Molewhisker wailed, dashing to the 
water’s edge. 

“Keep back!” Bramblestar warned him. “We don’t 
want two of you in there.” 

“Bramblestar, over here!” Sandstorm’s voice 
sounded behind him. 

Turning, Bramblestar saw that she was trying to 
tug a tree branch out of the undergrowth at the edge of 
the forest, but the twigs were snagged among 
brambles, and she couldn’t move tt. 

“Help me get this free!” she panted. 

Bramblestar raced over and grabbed the branch in 
his jaws. Together they managed to wrench it free. 
Bramblestar dragged it across the pebbles until the 
lake water was lapping around his paws, and shoved it 


out into the waves. The branch bobbed madly, and 
Bramblestar braced his feet among the stones to hold it 
steady. 

“Be careful!” Sandstorm called. 

Blossomfall’s head was still bobbing above the 
surface, but the end of the branch was just beyond her 
reach. Bramblestar could see that her long, thick fur 
was waterlogged and dragging her down. 
“Molewhisker, Sandstorm,” he rasped. “Put your 
weight on this end. Don't let it move.” 

The warriors waded into the lake and gripped the 
branch with their front paws. Bramblestar pulled 
himself onto the narrow length of wood and began to 
work his way forward, balancing on his hind paws and 
digging his front claws into the branch after each step. 
Waves slapped against him and with every heartbeat 
he expected to be torn away into the swirling water. 
Blossomfall bobbed a tail-length beyond the end of the 
branch, spluttermg and thrashing as she was dragged 
under by the weight of her fur. 

When the branch narrowed too much to hold 
Bramblestar, he shuffled carefully around and held out 
his tail toward the drowning cat. “Blossomfall!” he 


yowled. “Here!” 

Blossomfall shook her head to get water out of her 
eyes, then made a frantic lunge toward Bramblestar. 
He winced as she sank her teeth into the end of his 
tail. The she-cat’s eyes bulged as she clamped her 
jaws shut. Bramblestar took a deep breath against the 
pain and pulled her toward him until she could grip the 
branch with her claws and release his tail. Drops of 
blood scattered into the lake and sank quickly. 

“Hold on!” Bramblestar called. 

Sandstorm and Molewhisker began to haul the 
branch in, dragging it up the shore until first 
Bramblestar and then Blossomfall managed to find a 
paw hold. They waded out of the lake and flopped 
down on the pebbles well above the waterline. 

“Thank you, Bramblestar!” Blossomfall choked, 
coughing up several mouthfuls of water. “I thought I 
was going to drown!” 

Bramblestar got up and gave his pelt a shake. “It’s 
too dangerous down here,” he meowed. “I’m going to 
order every cat to stay away from the lake until the 
water level goes down.” 

“Good idea!” Molewhisker agreed. 


Turning to Sandstorm, Bramblestar continued, “Will 
you take Blossomfall back and have Jayfeather check 
her out? Molewhisker and I can finish the patrol on our 
own.” 

“No, I’m okay,” Blossomfall objected, struggling to 
her paws. “I can keep going.” 

Bramblestar hesitated. / wonder if she’s trying to 
prove her loyalty. Then he told himself to stop 
second-guessing the motives of every cat who had 
been connected with the Dark Forest. He gave a brisk 
nod. “Tell me if you want to stop,” he warned her. 
“There’s no shame in needing to rest after what 
you’ ve been through.” 

“Im fine,” Blossomfall insisted. Her pelt was still 
wet, sticking up in spikes, but her eyes were bright and 
determined. 

Bramblestar led his patrol a safe distance from the 
water’s edge and turned inland to follow the stream at 
the WindClan border. He spotted a WindClan patrol 
racing across the moor after a couple of bulky, low- 
flying white birds. As he watched, two of the cats 
leaped into the air and almost clawed one of the birds 
out of the sky. At the last moment it gave a vigorous 


beat of its wings and lurched away, gaining height. 

‘Tve never seen WindClan hunting like that 
before!” Sandstorm exclaimed. 

“It’s pretty brave of them.” Molewhisker sounded 
impressed. “Those birds are big!” 

“I wonder how hungry they must be to try learning 
how to fly after prey,” Bramblestar mused. “The Tribe 
cats hunt birds like that, but it doesn’t seem natural for 
us.” 

The wind was blowing strongly over the moor, 
bringing so much WindClan scent that it seemed to fill 
the forest. 

“It’s hopeless trying to tell if they’ve trespassed,” 
Molewhisker growled. “I can’t smell anything but 
WindClan!” 

The patrol renewed their own scent markers, but 
the wind whisked the scent away into the forest almost 
immediately. Battling through the gusts, the cats finally 
reached the ridge and gazed down at the churning gray 
lake. Its definitely bigger than usual, Bramblestar 
realized. 

“Its hard to believe it was once empty,” 
Sandstorm murmured. 


“Was that in the Long Dry?” Molewhisker asked. 
“Purdy started telling me about it, but he never said 
how the water came back.” 

Purdy hardly ever gets to the end of his stories, 
Bramblestar thought, twitching his whiskers in 
amusement. 

“Well,” Blossomfall began, “all the Clans sent two 
cats to form a patrol, and they traveled up the dried-out 
stream until—” 

“Which cats went from ThunderClan?” 
Molewhisker interrupted. 

“Dovewing—she was Dovepaw  then—and 
Lionblaze,” Blossomfall replied. 

The tortoiseshell she-cat broke off with a startled 
squeal as a huge white bird flew unsteadily over their 
heads. Bramblestar ducked to avoid its erratic 
wingbeats. A moment later it crashed into a holly bush 
and struggled in the branches, trapped. 

Bramblestar raced over to it with Molewhisker 
beside him. Reaching the bush, he stood back to let the 
younger warrior make the easy kill. 

Molewhisker dived into the bush and sank his teeth 
into the bird’s neck. It stopped struggling and went 


limp; Molewhisker backed out of the bush, dragging his 
prey with him. 

“Good job!” Bramblestar praised him. 

Blossomfall let out a snort. “You’ve made a bit of a 
mess of its wings,” she pointed out. “You should be 
more careful.” 

“T only bit its neck!” Molewhisker protested. 

Looking more closely, Bramblestar saw claw 
marks on the wings, and a spattering of blood on the 
white feathers. “This must be the bird we saw the 
WindClan warriors attacking,’ he meowed. “They’ve 
wounded it badly enough to bring it down, but it 
managed to get onto our territory.” He let out a 
satisfied purr. “It'll make a great addition to the fresh- 
kill pile,” he added, “but it’s so heavy we might need 
more warriors to carry it back, so we don’t do any 
more damage.” 

“Hey—what are you doing?” An outraged yowl 
came from the other side of the stream. 

Bramblestar turned to see Nightcloud at the head 
of a WindClan patrol. Her apprentice, Hootpaw, and 
gray-and-white Gorsetail were just behind her. 

“That’s our catch!” the black she-cat growled. 


“We should have it.” 

“It is not your catch,’ Molewhisker defended 
himself. “T killed it, so it’s mine!” 

“It was alive when it entered ThunderClan 
territory,” Bramblestar pointed out, “and that makes it 
ours.” 

All three WindClan cats were bristling with fury. 
“Look at this,” Nightcloud snarled, holding up one paw 
to show scraps of white feathers stuck between her 
claws. “That proves we wounded it. If we hadn’t, you 
would never have caught it.” 

“And we need it more than you,” Hootpaw put in. 
“Rabbits are scarcer than usual, so these white birds 
are all we have.” 

“Be quiet!” Nightcloud hissed, giving her 
apprentice a cuff around the ear. 

Sandstorm spoke softly to Bramblestar. “We have 
plenty of prey. I think Firestar would have let 
WindClan have this bird.” 

“Pm not Firestar,’ Bramblestar retorted. “We 
caught this fairly, so it belongs to us.” 

“Absolutely right, you’re not Firestar,’ Gorsetail 
muttered, overhearing. 


Bramblestar felt a flash of anger. Snatching up the 
white bird, he stalked away with it, even though it was 
almost too heavy for him to carry and the trailing wings 
threatened to trip him. Sandstorm and Molewhisker 
hurried to help him, one on each side, while 
Blossomfall padded ahead to clear any twigs or 
bramble tendrils out of the way. As they headed into 
the trees, Bramblestar could hear the WindClan cats 
hissing behind him, but he paid no attention. 

“You made the right decision,” Sandstorm meowed 
after a moment. “You’re the leader now, and you can’t 
show weakness to another Clan.” 

Bramblestar shrugged. “Whatever,” he mumbled 
around his mouthful of feathers. He was thinking about 
what Hootpaw had said: Rabbits were getting scarce 
in WindClan, and they were relying on birds that didn’t 
usually come to the moor. There's something very 
familiar about the scent of the white bird s wings. . . 


The ThunderClan cats gathered around to stare at 
the white bird when the patrol returned to the hollow. 

“Wow, it’s huge!” Berrynose exclaimed. 

“I never saw a bird like that before,” Ivypool 


meowed. “It’s enough to feed the whole Clan!” 

“I caught it,” Molewhisker announced, giving his 
shoulder a couple of proud licks. 

His sister Cherryfall blinked at him. “Great catch! 
Those wings could really have hurt you.” 

“Oh, it wasn’t that difficult,” Molewhisker mewed. 

No, because the bird was already wounded and 
trapped in a bush, Bramblestar thought, suppressing a 
mrrow of amusement. He said nothing. Let 
Molewhisker have his moment of glory! 

“Squirrelflight!” he called, beckoning to his deputy 
with his tail. He led her up to the white bird and angled 
his ears toward it. “Smell it,” he mewed. “What does it 
remind you of?” 

Squirrelflight took a deep sniff, then looked up, 
puzzled. “Er... dead birds?” she guessed. 

Bramblestar twitched the tip of his tail. “No, think 
of a place,” he urged. 

Squirrelflight sniffed again, and understanding 
began to dawn in her eyes. “Now I remember! 
There's a salt-tasting tang on the feathers, like the 
water in the sun-drown-place. Do you think that’s 
where it came from?” 


Bramblestar remembered that Onestar had 
mentioned at the Gathering that WindClan were 
hunting birds from the sun-drown-water. He hadn’t 
paid much attention at the time, thinking that the 
WindClan leader must be imagining things. Now he 
wasn’t so sure. 

“The wind must be incredibly strong,” he 
commented, “to blow these birds all the way here.” 

He gazed through the trees as though he could see 
all the way to the sun-drown-place. A shiver passed 
through him from ears to tail-tip as he remembered the 
surging mass of blue-green water. 

Squirrelflight waited a few moments more to let all 
the Clan, especially the apprentices, get a good look at 
the white bird. Then she raised her voice to make 
herself heard throughout the clearing. “Come on, all of 
you! There’s enough prey here for every cat!” 


That night Bramblestar found it hard to rest. Wind 
blustering around the Highledge disturbed him, and 
when he did manage to snatch a few moments of sleep 
he was assaulted by strange dreams of salty water and 
falling down holes on top of badgers. 


A paw prodding him in the side woke him. The 
faint light of dawn was trickling into his den, and he 
just managed to make out the features of Jayfeather. 
The medicine cat was wide-eyed and agitated. 

“Wha... ?” Bramblestar muttered. “Did I call out 
in my sleep and wake you?” 

Jayfeather shook his head. “No. I went out before 
dawn, because I was concerned about the new plants 
in the wind. And I found something . . . something 
awful. Come and see, Bramblestar!” 

Shaking off the last remnants of sleep, Bramblestar 
followed Jayfeather out of his den and down the 
tumbled rocks to the floor of the hollow. Jayfeather led 
the way into the forest at a run, sure-pawed as always 
in spite of his blindness, while Bramblestar blundered 
after him in the near darkness. 

The two cats followed the disused Thunderpath 
until they came to the abandoned nest. By now there 
was enough light for Bramblestar to see more clearly. 
He stopped, his fur bushing up in dismay. The plants 
that Leafpool and Jayfeather had tended so carefully 
had been destroyed by a branch from a nearby ash 
tree. Wind had blown it across the patch of earth, 


churning up the ground and flattening the young herbs. 
Torn leaves had blown everywhere. 

“Well, it’s bad, but it should be possible to repair it,” 
Bramblestar meowed. “Some of the roots must have 
survived. I’Il send you a patrol later today, to help clear 
up the mess and look for new plants in the forest.” 

“You don’t understand,” Jayfeather told him, his 
voice somber. “This is an omen. Something terrible is 
going to happen. Darkness and destruction and tragedy 
are Closing in on our Clan once more.” 

Bramblestar felt an icy trickle of fear run down his 
spine. “Not the Dark Forest again?” 

“No,” Jayfeather replied, and his voice sounded far 
away, and somehow older. “Something different from 
the Great Battle. I don’t know what it is, but I can feel 
it coming on the wind.” 





CHAPTER 7 
> 


v 


Dawn had scarcely broken by the time Bramblestar 
and Jayfeather returned to the holow. But their 
Clanmates were already awake and restless, pacing 
around the clearing with their fur blown the wrong way 
and their ears turned inside out. The trees clattered 
overhead as the wind gusted through them. 

“I don’t like this,’ Squirrelflight muttered as she 
joined Bramblestar in the center of the camp. “It 
reminds me too much of the time the tree fel, when 
Longtail died and Briarlight was injured.” 

Bramblestar nodded, knowing that terrible day 
must be in the mind of every cat. A couple of fox- 
lengths away Dovewing was standing with her claws 
dug into the earth as if she were trying to take root. 
Her head was raised, and Bramblestar knew she was 
struggling to listen for falling trees. 

Dovewing’s mother, Whitewing, emerged from the 
warriors’ den and padded up to her daughter. “This 
isn’t doing any good,’ she murmured, giving 
Dovewing’s ear a gentle lick. “Come and share a vole 


with me.” 

Dovewing hesitated, then allowed her mother to 
coax her over to the fresh-kill pile. 

“Pm worried about Dovewing,’ Bramblestar 
confided to Squirrelflight. 

“I know,” Squirrelflight responded. “It was hard for 
all three cats to lose their powers.” 

“But Dovewing seems to be suffering most of all,” 
Bramblestar mewed. 

Lionblaze and Cinderheart pushed their way into 
the camp through the thorn barrier. Lionblaze looked 
ruffled, and was speaking over his shoulder to 
Cinderheart. 

“It’s mouse-brained, trying to hunt in this!” he 
complained. “That branch from the beech tree 
whacked me right on the head!” 

“Honestly, Lionblaze,” Cinderheart purred. “It was 
only a twig! You have to get used to being injured.” 

Bramblestar sent Squirrelflight to round up the 
senior warriors. “We still have to send out patrols,” he 
began when they were gathered around him. He had 
to raise his voice to make himself heard above the 
blustering wind. “I don’t want any cat injured by falling 


trees—” 

“Right,” Lionblaze muttered, rubbing the top of his 
head with one paw. 

“But we need to restock the fresh-kill pile,” 
Bramblestar went on. “And I wouldn’t put it past 
ShadowClan or WindClan to take advantage of all this 
noise and chaos to cross the border. Especially 
WindClan, chasing those storm-blown white birds.” 

Blossomfall nodded. “I’d bet a moon of dawn 
patrols that they’d have crossed our border after the 
bird we caught, if we hadn’t been there.” 

“So who will lead a patrol?” Bramblestar asked. 

“I will,” Squirrelflight offered immediately. 

“And me,” Dustpelt and Ivypool added in chorus. 

“I will, too,” Bumblestripe meowed. “Except... 
Dovewing, will you be okay if I leave you?” 

‘Tl be fine,” Dovewing replied, though she was 
working her claws agitatedly into the ground. 

Bramblestar could see that she was in too much of 
a state to be sent out on patrol. She was still trying to 
use her far-senses, even though she had lost them right 
after the battle. She feels like she’s deaf and blind, 
and she cant bear it! 


“TI keep an eye on her,” Whitewing promised, 
leading her daughter back to the warriors’ den. 

“Four patrols, then,’ Bramblestar ordered. 
“Tvypool, take the WindClan border, and Dustpelt, take 
ShadowClan. Bumblestripe and Squirrelflight, your 
patrols can hunt. I'll go with Bumblestripe.” 

“Which cats should we take with us?” Dustpelt 
asked. 

“Choose your own,” Bramblestar responded. 
“Have one cat in each patrol to watch out for danger 
—wind-blown branches, creaking trees, whatever. 
And if that cat says run, run!” 

As Bumblestripe began to look around for other 
cats, his apprentice, Seedpaw, scampered up. “Can I 
come?” she chirped. 

Bumblestripe shook his head. “It’s too dangerous 
out there for apprentices.” 

“But—” 

“No buts,” Bramblestar interrupted. “You and the 
others can help by clearing up any debris that gets 
blown into the camp. Tell your denmates I said so. You 
are responsible for keeping the camp tidy and safe, 
okay?” 


Seedpaw lifted her head proudly. “We can do that, 
Bramblestar.” She dashed off toward the apprentices’ 
den. 

The leaders of the patrols quickly found other cats 
to go with them and headed into the forest. 
Mousewhisker and Cherryfal had joined 
Bumblestripe’s patrol. Both of them seemed spooked 
by the wind, darting uneasy glances around at every 
paw step, and starting at each unexpected noise. 

Bramblestar took on the duty of keeping watch for 
danger. Though the trees were thrashing in the wind, 
none of them looked ready to fall. But the noise of the 
gusts and creaking branches was so loud that there 
was little chance of picking up tiny prey sounds, while 
the strong gusts scattered scents everywhere. 

“I think we ought to hunt in places where prey 
might go to shelter,’ Bumblestripe suggested. “Like a 
bramble thicket, or maybe the abandoned Twoleg 
nest.” 

“Great idea!” Cherryfall agreed. “Let’s go to the 
nest.” 

Anything to get out of this wind for a bit, 
Bramblestar thought. 


He brought up the rear as Bumblestripe led the 
patrol along the old Thunderpath. Now they were 
battling into the wind, their eyes watering and their 
pelts pressed flat to their sides. Every paw step was a 
massive effort, as if the wind was trying to pluck them 
up and send them crashing into the trees. 

When the Twoleg nest came in sight, Bumblestripe 
and the others halted, staring in dismay at the fallen 
branch and the damaged plants. 

“Leafpool worked so hard over that!” Cherryfall 
gasped. 

“And she and Jayfeather will put it right again as 
soon as this wind drops,” Mousewhisker reassured her. 

Bramblestar couldn’t share Mousewhisker’s 
optimism. His memory of Jayfeather’s ominous omen 
was too strong, and he glanced around with his ears 
pricked. But all the trees within sight had their roots 
firmly fixed in the ground. 

Bramblestar followed Bumblestripe and the others 
into the tumbledown den. Cherryfall puffed out a sigh 
of relief as she stepped inside. “Sheltered from the 
wind at last!” she mewed, smoothing her whiskers 
with one paw. 


“Keep quiet and listen for prey,’ Bumblestripe 
ordered. 

In a brief moment of silence when the wind 
dropped, Bramblestar picked up a strong scent of 
mouse and heard the patter of their tiny feet above his 
head, where strong, straight, Twoleg-crafted branches 
were supporting the roof. 

Bumblestripe had heard it, too. “Up there,” he 
whispered, pointing with his tail. 

“TI go!” Cherryfall lightly climbed the wooden 
slats that were fixed to the far wall. From the top she 
made a graceful leap onto one of the branches. 

“Be careful!” Bramblestar warned. 

The young she-cat stalked along the branch. 
Farther along, in the shadows, Bramblestar could just 
make out a flicker of movement that told him a mouse 
was there. 

But as Cherryfall was readying herself to pounce, 
a powerful gust of wind hit the den. One of the flat 
stones that formed the roof was torn free and clattered 
away. Cherryfall jumped in shock and lost her balance. 
Yowling in terror, she fell, her body twisting in the air. 
She just managed to snag the bulky wood with one 


claw before she plummeted to the ground. 

“Help!” she wailed. 

“Can you climb back up?” Bramblestar yowled. 

Cherryfall stretched up with her other forepaw, but 
she couldn’t grasp the smooth surface. “I’m slipping!” 
she gasped. 

“Mousewhisker, go after her,” Bramblestar 
ordered. “And for StarClan’s sake, watch where 
you’re putting your paws.” 

Mousewhisker bounded up the wooden slats and 
leaped neatly onto the end of the branch. Balancing 
carefully in the center, he headed toward Cherryfall. 

“Come on,” Bramblestar meowed to Bumblestripe. 
“Let's collect dead leaves, debris, anything to break 
her fall if she loses her grip.” 

Together they scraped up the earthy litter that lay 
on the floor of the den, then darted outside to find 
more. Bumblestripe tore up moss from the side of the 
den, while Bramblestar scraped up a clump of yarrow 
that grew near the door. The pile was growing, but 
agonizingly slowly, while Cherryfall dangled above it. 

Mousewhisker had reached the point on the branch 
where his Clanmate was hanging. He stretched down, 


trying to grab her scruff, but it was just out of reach. 
While he strained, he brushed against Cherryfall’s leg, 
dislodging her precarious grip. She uttered a wild 
screech as she fell. 

Bramblestar darted forward just in time to break 
her fall. She slammed into him, knocking him to the 
ground, and his head cracked against the stone floor. 
Darkness sparkled over Bramblestar’s vision. Voices 
echoed around him, seeming to come from a long way 
off. Am I losing a life? he wondered. 

Then the voices sounded more clearly and he 
recognized the tones of Cherryfall and Mousewhisker. 

“Are you okay? I’m sorry I let you fall.” 

“Oof—all the breath’s knocked out of me! But I'm 
fine, I think.” 

Then another voice, more distant, joined them. 
“What’s going on in there?” 

Bramblestar sat up groggily. His vision cleared and 
he saw Ivypool peering through the entrance to the 
den, with her patrol clustered anxiously behind her. 

“Cherryfall fell off the branch up there,” 
Bumblestripe explained. “Bramblestar was great—he 
broke her fall.” 


Ivypool’s eyes stretched wide. “Are you hurt?” 
she mewed. “You should go straight back to camp and 
let Jayfeather check you out.” 

“There’s no need,” Bramblestar protested, rising to 
his paws. The walls of the den whirled around him. 

“And hedgehogs can fly,” Ivypool retorted. “You 
can barely stand. And don’t try to hide your paw from 
me, Cherryfall. I can see the blood on it.” 

“It’s only a ripped claw,” Cherryfall muttered. 

“It needs treating!” Ivypool hissed. 

Bramblestar sighed. “Okay, Ivypool, keep your fur 
on. We’ll go back. But I still want that mouse caught. 
Mousewhisker and Bumblestripe, you can stay here 
and try again.” 

Bumblestripe nodded. “We’ll get it, don’t worry.” 

Bramblestar led the way out of the den with 
Cherryfall limping behind him. Ivypool and her patrol 
flanked them as they returned to the camp. 

“Any sign of WindClan on the border?” 
Bramblestar asked Ivypool. 

“Not a sniff,” the silver-and-white tabby told him. 
“As far as we can scent anything in this wind. We 
didn’t spot any more of those white birds, either.” 


Back in the hollow, Bramblestar sent Cherryfall to 
her nest, then headed for the medicine cats’ den. Both 
Jayfeather and Leafpool were there, sorting piles of 
herbs. 

“How am I supposed to keep my stocks tidy when 
the wind is this bad?” Jayfeather was grumbling as 
Bramblestar brushed past the bramble screen. “I no 
sooner put a stem down, when it’s gone.” 

“We need to do this as fast as we can, and then 
shove everything down to the bottom of the cleft,” 
Leafpool meowed. 

Jayfeather snorted. “And what do you want?” he 
asked, looking up at Bramblestar with his intense blue 
gaze. “Not another skirmish with WindClan?” 

“No,” Bramblestar replied. He explained what had 
happened at the Twoleg nest. “Cherryfall has a ripped 
claw,” he finished. “I sent her to rest in the warriors’ 
den. Leafpool, I thought you could take a look at her 
there.” 

Jayfeather’s eyes narrowed. “Are you the 
ThunderClan medicine cat, Bramblestar, or am I?” He 
sighed. “Okay, Leafpool. Better take some marigold, if 
it hasn’t all blown away.” 


When Leafpool had slipped out carrying the herbs, 
Jayfeather faced Bramblestar again. “Go on, then,” he 
meowed. “What do you want to talk about?” 

“How do you know I—” 

“You sent Leafpool away deliberately, right? Don’t 
waste my time, Bramblestar.” 

“It's about the omen,” Bramblestar began. “Was 
this the disaster we were warned about? I saved 
Cherryfall—does that mean I defeated the omen?” 

Jayfeather looked thoughtful. “I don’t know,” he 
admitted. “With all this wind, it’s impossible to think 
straight.” 

“Then you can’t help?” Bramblestar asked. 

“With the omen? No. But I can still help with your 
injuries. Sit still while I examine you.” 

Bramblestar’s paws were itching to get back to his 
patrol, but he forced himself to wait while Jayfeather 
ran his paws expertly over him. 

“You’ve got a bump on your head,” the medicine 
cat mewed. “And does it hurt when I do this?” He 
gave Bramblestar a sharp prod in the shoulder. 

“Ow! Yes, it does.” 

“Thought so,” Jayfeather grunted. “You'll have 


some pain there for a day or two, but it’s not serious. A 
poppy seed should ease it.” 

“No, thanks,” Bramblestar meowed. “TI put up 
with the pain so I can keep a clear head.” 

Jayfeather shrugged. “Suit yourself. Tell me if you 
change your mind.” 

Bramblestar thanked the medicine cat and padded 
out into the clearing again. Squirrelflight’s hunting 
patrol had just returned, but their jaws were empty. 

“It’s hopeless!” Squirrelflight declared, her fur 
bristling. “I think the wind has blown all the prey out of 
the forest.” 

We’ll go hungry tonight, Bramblestar thought. / 
hope Bumblestripe and Mousewhisker managed to 
catch that mouse. Slipping into the warriors’ den to 
check on Cherryfall, he found the young cat drowsy 
from poppy seed. Leafpool had put a poultice of 
marigold leaves on her injured paw and was stroking 
the warrior’s fur while she went to sleep. 

Bramblestar retreated quietly and crossed the 
clearing to the elders’ den, where Purdy, his tabby pelt 
ruffled by the wind, was busy plugging the drafts with 
long tendrils of bramble. 


“The apprentices should be helping you with that,” 
Bramblestar meowed. 

“I can manage fine,” Purdy puffed. “I don’t need 
no young cats runnin’ around after me. They’ve better 
things to do.” 

But Bramblestar could see that the old tabby was 
looking tired, and the brambles were catching in his 
matted tabby fur. Backing out of the den, he beckoned 
with his tail to Lilypaw and Seedpaw, who were 
collecting sticks and dead leaves from the floor of the 
camp. 

“Go and help Purdy, please,” he meowed when 
they came bounding up. “His den needs wind-proofing, 
and then you could see if there’s any fresh-kill left for 
him.” 

“Sure, Bramblestar,” Lilypaw chirped. 

Bramblestar let out a purr. The two older 
apprentices are shaping up nicely. Catching sight of 
Daisy in the entrance to the nursery, he padded over to 
her. 

“This wind is terrible!” the cream-colored she-cat 
exclaimed as he approached. “It blows dust into my 
eyes and fur, and I can’t hear myself think.” 


“It won’t last long, I hope,” Bramblestar mewed. 
“Daisy, I wonder if you could sleep in Purdy’s den 
tonight? If anything happens, I don’t want him to be 
alone.” 

Daisy twitched her whiskers. She knows what 1 
mean. Another falling tree would tear the heart out 
of this Clan. 

‘TIl go,” Daisy agreed, “but I probably won't get 
any sleep, what with the wind and the stench of mouse 
bile. Honestly, I think every tick in the forest heads 
straight for Purdy!” 

Bramblestar looked around for Squirrelflight, 
wondering if it was too late to send out more patrols. 
Spotting her outside the warriors’ den, he headed 
toward her, only to be intercepted by Millie. 

“Briarlight is very worried about falling trees,” the 
gray she-cat told him. “She won’t be able to run 
away.” 

Looking at Millie’s troubled eyes, and the way she 
was agitatedly working her claws into the ground, 
Bramblestar thought that Millie was more terrified than 
Briarlight for her daughter’s safety. “Okay, I'll talk to 
her,” he meowed. 


Millie led him to the fresh-kill pile, where Briarlight 
was sharing a rather shriveled shrew with 
Molewhisker. 

“Where would you feel most comfortable 
sleeping?” Bramblestar asked her. 

Briarlight shivered. “Somewhere there are no 
trees,” she replied. 

Bramblestar figured that Briarlight might feel 
safest up on the Highledge, where the rock would 
shelter her. “You can sleep in my den,” he told her. 
“Come on, I’ll carry you up there.” 

Briarlight blinked at him in surprise. “Really? 
Wow!” 

“Thank you, Bramblestar,” purred Millie. 

Feeling slightly embarrassed, Bramblestar 
crouched down so that Briarlight could haul herself 
onto his back. Molewhisker gave her a boost, and 
Brackenfur saw what was going on and came to help 
too. With the toms steadying Briarlight on either side, 
Bramblestar struggled up the slope of rocks, wincing 
every time their paws dislodged small stones. Millie 
brought up the rear, and Bramblestar heard her gasp 
with alarm at each stone that pattered down into the 


clearing. 

At last Bramblestar reached his den and settled 
Briarlight into his nest, pulling the moss and bracken 
closely around her to make her cozy. “You’d better 
stay with her, Millie,’ he meowed. “Call me if there 
are any problems. PI be in the warriors’ den.” 

“We’ll be just fine here, Bramblestar,’ Millie 
responded. “Thank you so much.” 

Bramblestar headed down into the clearing and 
found Squirrelflight still sitting outside the warriors’ 
den, her tail wrapped around her paws. 

“Do you think we should take out another hunting 
patrol?” he meowed. 

“In this?” Squirrelflight glanced up at the trees, still 
buffetted by the roaring wind. “No. We’ll just have to 
go hungry tonight, and hope things are better in the 
morning.” 

Bramblestar was glad to agree with her. His head 
and his shoulder were aching, and he wanted nothing 
more than to curl up somewhere and go to sleep. 

“That was very kind, what you did for Briarlight,” 
Squirrelflight murmured as they slipped inside the 
warriors’ den. 


Bramblestar felt embarrassed all over again. “It 
was logical,” he mewed with a shrug. 

As the Clan settled down to sleep, Dustpelt and 
Brackenfur padded around to check each den, making 
sure that the branches were woven as securely as they 
could be, and plugging any new holes with moss and 
bramble. 

“Don’t stay awake too late,” Bramblestar advised 
them. “You need your sleep too.” 

Dustpelt didn’t reply. Bramblestar suppressed a 
sigh. He wondered if the tabby tom was deliberately 
working himself into exhaustion to have a chance of 
sleeping in his empty nest. 

Though his mossy bed was comfortable, 
Bramblestar found it hard to sleep because of the noise 
of the wind. He couldn’t stop listening out for the 
creaking sound that would warn of a tree about to fall. 
But at the same time he enjoyed hearing the breathing 
of his Clanmates and seeing their furry shapes in the 
dim light. He realized for the first time how much he 
missed their company when he was sleeping alone in 
his den on the Highledge. 

If I had a mate, I wouldnt be alone, he thought, 


then gave himself a shake. Theres no point dwelling 
on that. 

Finally Bramblestar gave up his attempt to sleep 
and crept into the clearing. He staggered as the force 
of the wind hit him, with a slap of rain that probed his 
pelt with icy claws. Recovering himself, he began to 
pad around the camp. 

Purdy’s voice came from the elders’ den. “So, I 
says to the dog, ‘Listen, flea-pelt, this is my garden, so 
take your stench-ridden body out of here.’ ” 

“Wow .. .” Daisy’s voice sounded so drowsy that 
Bramblestar thought she was talking in her sleep. 
“How brave of you.” 

Moving on, Bramblestar paused underneath the 
Highledge, but couldn’t hear any sound coming from 
there. J hope that means Briarlight and Millie are 
asleep. He poked his head into the apprentices’ den 
and made out five curled-up balls of fur deeply asleep 
in their thick nests of moss and bracken. All were 
silent except for Snowpaw, who was snoring loudly. As 
Bramblestar watched, Lilypaw shot out one hind leg 
and, without opening her eyes, prodded Snowpaw in 
the belly. Snowpaw grunted and was quiet. 


Bramblestar sighed with relief. The Clan is safe. 

He still felt restless, so he headed out of the camp 
with a nod to Thornclaw, who was on guard duty. Even 
in the shelter of the trees, wind swept cold raindrops 
into his face as he picked his way through the debris 
on the forest floor. Stars and the occasional glimmer of 
moonlight appeared through the racing clouds. 
Uneasiness stirred in Bramblestar’s belly; in the 
flickering half light, something looked different. 

Stumbling over fallen branches, Bramblestar made 
his way closer to the lake. The creaking and clattering 
trees made him jump, his senses stretched to the edge 
of panic. The air smells different, too. What's going 
on? 

He picked up the pace, desperate to find out if 
something was threatening his Clan. A tree stump 
loomed up in front of him; bunching his muscles, he 
leaped over it. A heartbeat later he landed up to his 
belly fur in icy water. 

Bramblestar let out a startled screech. But I’m 
only halfway to the lake! 

For a moment he floundered while the water 
dragged at him, surging around his legs. With a hiss he 


dug his claws into the ground and paw step by paw 
step hauled himself backward up the slope until he was 
clear of the water. Then he whirled around and raced 
for the hollow. 

StarClan help us! The lake has flooded! 





CHAPTER 8 
de 


v 


Bramblestar scrambled through the long grass, 
heavy with rain, back up the slope to the hollow. 
Thornclaw was still crouched by the entrance; he 
leaped to his paws and stared in astonishment when he 
saw Bramblestar, drenched to his skin. 

“What happened?” he demanded. 

“The lake is flooding!” Bramblestar panted. “The 
water is coming up through the forest.” 

“What? It can’t be!” 

“Come and see.” 

Bramblestar whipped around and led Thornclaw at 
a run back down the hillside. This time he knew what 
to expect, and he halted beside the tree stump, right at 
the edge of the floodwater. 

“Wow!” Thornclaw breathed. “Thats some 
flood!” 

In the darkness Bramblestar thought there was 
something sinister about the water, the surface ruffled 
by the wind and glinting in the light from the stars. 
Waves slapped against the tree trunks, sucking and 


gurgling around the roots. 

“What should we do now?” Thornclaw asked. 

‘T’m not sure,” Bramblestar admitted. “Let's get 
back to the camp and see what the others think.” 

The rain began lashing down more heavily, and by 
the time Bramblestar and Thornclaw reached the 
hollow, they were equally soaked through. While 
Thornclaw went back on watch, Bramblestar slipped 
inside the warriors’ den and roused Squirrelflight and 
Brackenfur. 

“What is it?” Squirrelflight muttered, struggling up 
out of her nest. “A fallen tree?” 

“No, thank StarClan.” Bramblestar gestured 
toward the entrance to the den. “Come over here 
where we can talk without waking the others.” 

Brackenfur picked his way among sleeping 
warriors to join them, disturbing Graystripe on the way. 
The gray warrior glanced up, and when Bramblestar 
beckoned to him, he hauled himself out of his nest and 
padded over to the little group by the entrance. 

“What’s the problem?” he asked with a massive 
yawn. 

Bramblestar explained how the lake water had 


risen and flooded the forest. “It’s still some way 
away,” he meowed. “I don’t think it will get this far.” 

“What do you want us to do?” Squirrelflight 
meowed. 

Bramblestar gazed out across the camp. The 
clearing was covered with puddles that were starting 
to run together as the rain hissed down. “We need to 
decide what to do about hunting and border patrols,” 
he mewed. 

A screech from the elders’ den interrupted him and 
Purdy stumbled into the open. “There”s water all down 
my back!” he yowled. 

Daisy emerged after the elder, her shoulders 
hunched against the downpour, and began chivvying 
him across to the nursery. 

At the same moment Bramblestar heard cats 
stirring in the den behind him, and grunts of complaint 
as water seeped through the roof and showered the 
warriors. Cloudtail jumped up and shook himself with a 
disgusted look at the woven brambles above his head. 
Rosepetal tried to burrow deeper into the moss to get 
away from the cold trickles, while Berrynose snarled 
with annoyance as he squashed himself into a tiny, dry 


corner. 

“We’re going to be washed out of here,” 
Bramblestar meowed. “Brackenfur, can you check the 
other dens, and see if anywhere is watertight?” 

“Sure.” Brackenfur slipped out into the storm and 
pelted across to the nursery. 

“Do you think we need to leave the hollow?” 
Squirrelflight suggested. 

Bramblestar glanced at Graystripe, wondering 
what he thought. 

Graystripe shook his head. “It’s just as wet out in 
the forest as it is here,’ he pointed out. “And it’s too 
dark to see where we’re putting our paws.” 

“There’s more danger out there, too,” Bramblestar 
agreed. “The wind is still strong enough to knock over 
trees. No, I think we”ll stay put.” 

“What are you going to tell the others about the 
lake?” Squirrelflight asked. 

Bramblestar hesitated for a moment. “Nothing,” he 
decided. “They”Il find out soon enough, and there's no 
point scaring them in the middle of the night.” 

Squirrelflight didn’t look as if she agreed with him, 
but she just dipped her head and mewed, “Okay.” 


Behind them in the warriors’ den, more cats were 
waking as the rain forced its way through the roof. 
Startled squeals sounded through the darkness. 

“This is no good, Bramblestar,” Cloudtail grumbled, 
squelching his way through the soaked moss and 
picking up each paw to shake it. “It’s like trying to 
sleep under a waterfall!” 

“We’ll all die of greencough at this rate!” Spiderleg 
called out. 

For a moment Bramblestar didn’t know what to tell 
his Clanmates. J can t make it stop raining! 

Just then Brackenfur returned, his pelt drenched 
and his legs splashed with mud. “The nursery is dry,” 
he reported. “And so is the apprentices’ den.” 

“Good.” Bramblestar puffed out a breath of relief. 
“Jayfeather should be able to fit a couple of cats into 
his cave, and my den on the Highledge will be 
sheltered, too.” He turned to face the shivering cats in 
the warriors’ den, raising his voice so they could hear 
him above the clamor of wind and rain. “We have to 
move out of this den. Graystripe, take Blossomfall, 
Dustpelt, and Sandstorm to join Millie and Briarlight in 
my den. Mentors, you can bed down with your 


apprentices in their den. Brightheart and Cloudtail, go 
to Jayfeather. The rest of us will sleep in the nursery.” 

He stood with Squirrelflight at the entrance to the 
den, watching as his Clanmates darted out into the 
storm, hunched and miserable. Sandstorm and Dustpelt 
bounded toward the tumbled rocks, while Berrynose 
touched noses with Poppyfrost before she scurried off 
to join her apprentice. Whitewing seemed reluctant to 
leave Dovewing, who looked spooked by what was 
happening, as if she was straining to listen to all the 
forest at once. 

“TI keep an eye on her,” Lionblaze promised. 

Whitewing flashed him a grateful glance, then 
dashed through the teeming rain after Poppyfrost. 

As the last of the warriors left the soaked den, 
another cat raced up to Bramblestar; peering through 
the darkness he made out Leafpool’s pale tabby pelt. 

“Jayfeather and I have spare dry bedding,” she 
mewed. “Where do you need it?” 

“Take some to the Highledge,” Bramblestar 
ordered. “They’ll be short up there. And check the 
apprentices’ den. The nursery should have enough.” 

“Okay.” Leafpool sped off again. 


“Thanks, Leafpool!” Bramblestar called after her. 

When all the cats had left, he and Squirrelflight 
headed for the nursery, but Bramblestar veered aside 
to check on the apprentices. When he stuck his head 
inside the den, he saw that all of them were awake 
now, squashed up tightly with their mentors. 

“Are you all okay?” he asked. 

“Fine,” Whitewing replied. “We could do with a bit 
more bedding—” 

“And a bit more space,” Spiderleg added. 
“Lilypaw, take your tail out of my eye.” 

“This is exciting!” Amberpaw squeaked, her eyes 
gleaming in the dim light. 

“No, it isn’t!” Ivypool retorted. She was licking 
herself to dry off her pelt. “We’re cold and wet, and 
StarClan knows what the camp will look like in the 
morning.” 

“Apprentices think everything is exciting,” 
Bumblestripe pointed out as he burrowed into the dry 
moss. 

“Except finding Purdy’s ticks.” Seedpaw yawned. 

“I just thought of something!” Dewpaw exclaimed. 
“We must be warriors now, because we’ve got 


warriors sleeping here, so this is the warriors’ den.” 

“Yay! No more ticks!” Snowpaw yowled. 

“In your dreams!” Spiderleg meowed. 

Poppyfrost rolled her eyes. “Very funny. Now be 
quiet and go to sleep.” 

Obediently the apprentices curled up, but 
Bramblestar could hear stifled snuffles of amusement, 
and see the glimmer of mischievous eyes peeping out 
over the tails that wrapped their noses. He drew back 
and spotted Leafpool scurrying across the clearing 
with a load of bedding. Jayfeather loomed up beside 
Bramblestar at the entrance to the apprentices’ den, a 
bundle of moss wedged between his chin and his chest, 
with another bundle in his jaws. 

When he shoved his burden through the ferns that 
sheltered the den, Bumblestripe’s voice called out, 
“Thanks!” and there was an outraged squeak from 
Lilypaw. 

“Hey! You buried me!” 

As Jayfeather turned away again, Bramblestar 
halted him with a touch of his tail, then drew him out of 
earshot of the apprentices’ den. “Any more omens?” 
he meowed. 


Jayfeather gestured with his tail to take in the 
whole camp. “Let's see . . . wind, rain, leaking dens . . 
. What exactly are you looking for, Bramblestar? You 
should thank StarClan that no cats have been injured.” 

Bramblestar twitched. Unpleasant as the storm 
was, he didn’t feel it was bad enough to be the terrible 
doom that Jayfeather had prophesied. Unless there's 
worse to come. Maybe the lake... 

“Is there something you're not telling me?” 
Jayfeather asked sharply. 

“No,” Bramblestar replied, still unwilling to reveal 
the encroaching lake. “We just need to make sure our 
Clanmates are okay. You’d better get back to your 
den.” 

When Jayfeather had gone, Bramblestar ran to the 
nursery and pushed his way in, thankful to be sheltered 
at last. The air inside felt still and welcoming after the 
chaos outside, in spite of the tang of wet fur. It was 
almost completely dark, but he could just make out the 
shapes of his Clanmates, and spotted Squirrelflight 
waving her tail at him. 

“Over here, Bramblestar. I’ve kept a space for 


33 


you. 


Bramblestar headed toward her, weaving his way 
with difficulty between his Clanmates, who were 
packed in tightly from one end of the nursery to the 
other. 

“Hey!” Molewhisker yelped. “That's my tail 
you're treading on.” 

“Sorry,” Bramblestar muttered. 

Cherryfall swiped her brother across the ear. 
“Careful, Molewhisker. You don't talk to our Clan 
leader like that!” 

“It's okay,” Bramblestar meowed. “It’s tough for 
all of us, squashed together like this.” He squeezed into 
the gap between Squirrelflight and Birchfall and 
wriggled into the moss, trying to get comfortable. But 
his pelt was still wet, and it took a while for the 
warmth of the nursery to penetrate through it. 

Some of his Clanmates were already snoring, 
though the younger warriors were whispering to one 
another with occasional mrrows of laughter. 

Its an adventure for them, Bramblestar thought 
wearily. / hope it turns out to be no worse. 

From somewhere at the back of the nursery he 
heard Purdy’s voice. “This is nothin’ compared to the 


storms I remember when I was a kit... .” 

There was something soothing about the elder’s 
words. Nothing will stop Purdy telling his stories! 
The tale rumbled on as Bramblestar closed his eyes, 
but sleep was a long time coming. At last he fell into a 
doze, haunted by dreams of rising water and drowning 
cats, their paws stretched out helplessly as the waves 
swept them away. 

“Bramblestar!” The voice jerked him awake, along 
with icy drops spattering onto his pelt. 

Bramblestar opened his eyes to see Thornclaw 
standing over him. The warrior’s golden-brown pelt 
was dripping, plastered to his sides, and he was 
shivering violently. The first gray light of a new day 
was seeping into the den, but the storm hadn’t let up. 
Rain thundered down onto the roof of the den, and the 
wind still blustered through the camp. 

“Bramblestar, there’s something you need to see,” 
Thornclaw mewed through chattering teeth. 

Careful not to disturb his sleeping Clanmates, 
Bramblestar followed Thornclaw into the clearing, 
flinching as icy rain poured down on him. The floor of 
the hollow was awash with leaves and twigs floating 


on the water, while here and there a bigger branch 
rocked in the current with one end wedged in the mud. 
Up above, gaps had opened up in the line of trees, 
telling Bramblestar that some of them had fallen. Part 
of the thorn barrier had been torn away, leaving a 
ragged gap where the entrance had been. 

“It’s going to take a lot of work to put this right,” 
Bramblestar meowed with a flick of his tail. 

“Tt gets worse,” Thornclaw warned. 

He led the way right up to the thorns. Staring 
through the gap, Bramblestar saw water surging up the 
slope toward them, gray and menacing. The line of 
waves broke and swirled as they met swift-flowing 
streams that had burst their banks and now 
crisscrossed the forest, flattening the undergrowth. 

“Great StarClan!” Bramblestar gasped. “The lake 
has reached the camp!” 

There was a tang in the air that reminded him of 
the sun-drown-water; the eerie sounds of lapping 
waves and trees groaning sent a shiver through him 
from ears to tailtip. 

“We need to leave,” Thornclaw meowed urgently. 

Bramblestar spun around and raced back to the 


center of the hollow. “Cats of ThunderClan!” he 
yowled. “Come out now!” 

For a heartbeat no cat appeared, though he could 
hear startled murmurs from the dens. Then 
Squirrelflight rushed out of the nursery. “What’s going 
on?” 

“Go and look beyond the thorn barrier,” 
Bramblestar told her. 

Squirrelflight sped up to the camp entrance, then 
halted abruptly as she saw what was outside. When 
she returned her face was frozen in fear, her eyes 
stretched wide. But her voice was steady as she 
asked, “What are we going to do?” 

By now, cats were spilling dazedly from their 
makeshift nests, staring around with a mixture of fright 
and anger. Bramblestar splashed his way across the 
hollow and climbed the rocks to the Highledge. He 
hoped that from up there he could make himself heard 
above the noise of the storm. Millie and Briarlight and 
the other cats who had been sheltering in his den were 
huddled at the top of the slope, and Bramblestar had to 
push his way through them. 

“The lake has flooded the forest!” he yowled. “We 


need to leave the hollow right now!” 

Screeches of disbelief came from his Clanmates. 
“It couldn’t have!” Rosepetal gasped. “The lake is at 
the bottom of the hill!” 

“Not anymore,” Bramblestar meowed. 

As he spoke, water began trickling through the gap 
in the thorns, mingling with the rainwater already there. 
At first it looked like nothing more than a shallow 
ripple, easy enough to wade through. Then there was a 
surge of gray-brown waves crested with yellowish 
foam, sloshing through the thorns. When the waves 
retreated, they swept most of the barrier away, leaving 
room for more water to rush in, deeper and swirling. 

For a moment all the cats stared at it in horrified 
silence, broken by yelps of panic as they realized that 
the unthinkable was happening. 

“Lilypaw! Seedpaw! Over here!” their father, 
Brackenfur, called, while Cloudtail and Brightheart 
rounded up the younger apprentices. 

“Bramblestar!” Millie was staring at him, her eyes 
wide with terror and her claws raking frenziedly at the 
wet stone of the Highledge. “What about Briarlight? 
She won’t be able to swim if the hollow floods!” 


“No cat will have to swim,” Bramblestar reassured 
her. “There are other ways out of the hollow.” 

Leafpool, who was standing outside the medicine 
cats’ den, waved her tail to attract every cat’s 
attention. “Follow me!” she ordered. 

Bramblestar silently thanked StarClan for the 
steep, twisting path that led up the cliff from the 
bushes near the entrance to the medicine cats’ den. It 
would be a hard climb, he knew, but it was their only 
escape route from the rising water. He turned to face 
the cats clustered on the ledge behind him. 
“Graystripe,” he ordered, “get the others to help you 
bring Briarlight down. I’ll see you at the bottom of the 
path.” 

Graystripe crouched down while Dustpelt and 
Sandstorm began lifting Briarlight onto his back. 
Bramblestar left them to it and ran down the tumbled 
rocks to join Leafpool. 

By now most of the Clan was clustered around the 
medicine cats’ den, while Leafpool and Squirrelflight 
forced a way through the bushes, revealing the first 
few tail-lengths of the path. The cats crowded into the 
space behind the thorns, which was slightly sheltered 


from the force of the storm. 

“Wow!” Snowpaw squeaked, tipping back her 
head to follow the path up the cliff. “How did Leafpool 
know about this?” 

Brightheart gave her daughter a flick around the 
ear. “Medicine cats know a lot of things,” she mewed. 

Bramblestar swallowed hard as he gazed up at the 
path. It was a tricky scramble at the best of times, but 
it was going to be treacherous in this pouring rain and 
fierce wind. What if a cat falls? They could break 
their neck, and it would be my fault. He shook 
himself to clear his head. I’m the leader of this Clan. 
Its my responsibility to protect these cats, and 
there's no other way to leave the hollow. 

“Brackenfur, Spiderleg,” he meowed briskly. “You 
go up first. Make sure we can still get out that way. 
And for StarClan’s sake, be careful.” 

With a grim nod, Brackenfur sprang up the path 
with Spiderleg hard on his paws. Bramblestar 
narrowed his eyes against the driving rain, trying to 
watch their progress. From time to time he lost sight of 
them as they vanished behind bushes or jutting rocks, 
but at last he made out Brackenfur’s light brown pelt 


at the edge of the cliff top. 

“Its okay!” Brackenfur yowled. “But the path is 
very slippery. . . . Don’t try to rush it.” 

“Right, let’s get moving,’ Bramblestar ordered. 
“Daisy, you next.” He beckoned with his tail to the 
shivering she-cat, whose long, cream-colored pelt hung 
like rats’ tails around her. “Lionblaze, follow her up and 
make sure she’s okay.” 

‘TIl be fine,” Daisy mewed. “I’ve done it before.” 

Bramblestar remembered how  Squirrelflight, 
Brightheart, and Cloudtail had climbed the path with 
Daisy and her kits to rescue them from the badger 
attack, so many moons ago. Now—in spite of how he 
had longed for a nursery full of kits—he was thankful 
that there were no tiny cats who had to be carried out 
of the hollow. Moving Briarlight will be hard 
enough.... 

Once Lionblaze and Daisy were halfway up, 
Bramblestar sent the apprentices, each with their 
mentor to keep an eye on them. He sent Cloudtail with 
Amberpaw, since Spiderleg had already made the 
climb. The young cats showed no fear at all, sure- 
pawed and nimble as they followed the narrow path 


back and forth across the cliff face. 

“Dovewing next!” Bramblestar called. 

The pale gray she-cat splashed forward through 
the puddles, her ears twitching. “I’m not sure I can do 
this,” she muttered. “I keep looking for stuff that isn’t 
here, and I can’t see what’s right under my nose.” 

“Of course you can do it.” Her father, Birchfall, 
padded up to her. “T’Il be right behind you. I won't let 
you fall.” 

Taking a deep breath, Dovewing began to climb. 
At first she was slow and nervous, but gradually she 
seemed more sure of herself and her pace quickened. 

“Take your time,” Birchfall urged. “This isn’t a 
race!” 

“Now you, Thornclaw,” Bramblestar meowed. 
“Once you get to the top, find a bush or something to 
take shelter. You’ve had a terrible night.” 

Thornclaw gave his Clan leader a brief nod. “I’ve 
had better.” 

By now the daylight had strengthened a little, but 
the sky was covered with heaving gray clouds. There 
would be no sunrise. The rain still pelted down, 
sweeping in waves across the hollow as it was 


buffeted by the wind. 

Peering upward, Bramblestar could see a growing 
crowd of cats at the top of the cliff. None of them had 
lost their footing so far. Maybe we'll all make it. 
“Molewhisker and Cherryfall, off you go,” he ordered. 

Cherryfall set off first, serambling confidently from 
one paw hold to the next, disappearmg into the driving 
rain, but when Molewhisker tried to follow he halted a 
few tail-lengths above the ground, his ears flat and his 
eyes staring in terror. 

“T can’t do it!” he wailed. “I’m going to fall!” 

Bramblestar’s heart began to thud. “You'll be 
fine!” he called up to the panicking young tom. “All the 
other cats have done it.” 

“T’m slipping! Help!” 

“Mouse dung!” Bramblestar muttered. 

He was about to start climbing to give 
Molewhisker a boost from below, when he spotted 
Lionblaze making his way carefully down from the top 
of the cliff. 

“Hang on, Molewhisker!” the warrior yowled. 
“I'm coming! You see that rock just there . . . the flat 
one?” Lionblaze slithered to a halt, leaning into the cliff 


face with his hind paws gripping the loose stones. “Put 
your forepaw there. Now bring your hind paws up to 
that crack. That's right... .” 

Very slowly Molewhisker started to move. The 
two cats climbed together until Bramblestar lost sight 
of them, and Lionblaze’s reassuring tones were lost in 
the howl of the wind. 

Brightheart and Cinderheart shuffled up to the end 
of the path. “We’re ready, Bramblestar,” Brightheart 
mewed. 

“Wait a moment,” Bramblestar warned. “I want to 
be sure Molewhisker gets up safely. If he falls, he 
could knock any cat below him off the path.” 

As he finished speaking, he heard Lionblaze again, 
yowling from the cliff top. “We made it!” 

Thank StarClan, Bramblestar thought. And thank 
Lionblaze! “Okay, off you go,” he told the two she- 
cats. 

They set off well, taking small, cautious steps and 
keeping their bodies low and close to the rock. Then a 
gust of wind caught Brightheart, who was climbing a 
fox-length behind Cinderheart. She slipped and hung 
off the edge of the path, her paws scrabbling wildly, 


letting out a screech of terror. “Help!” 

Bramblestar bunched his muscles to leap up to her, 
but before he could move Cinderheart had turned back, 
her claws clinging to the rock. She fastened her teeth 
in Brightheart’s scruff and hauled her back onto the 
path. 

Brightheart crouched, trembling. “Thanks, 
Cinderheart,” she gasped. 

“Are you okay?” Cinderheart mewed. “Can you 
keep going?” 

Brightheart nodded. “Let’s go.” 

As Bramblestar watched them struggling slowly up 
the cliff face, he felt water washing against his belly 
fur and he realized that the flood in the hollow was 
getting deeper. Time is running out! Glancing around 
at the cats who were left, he saw that Graystripe had 
arrived with Briarlight and the other cats who had 
spent the night in the den on the Highledge. Purdy had 
joined them. The two medicine cats were standing 
near their den, while Berrynose and Mousewhisker 
were closer to the bottom of the path, their claws 
working impatiently as they waited for their turn. 
Rosepetal was hanging farther back with Squirrelflight. 


Bramblestar gave a nod to the two toms, who set 
off with quick, steady paw steps. For the first few tail- 
lengths he kept an eye on Berrynose, knowing that the 
cream-colored warrior tended to be overconfident, but 
both he and his brother vanished up the path with no 
trouble. 

Squirrelflight stepped up to him. “Rosepetal’s 
nervous,” she murmured in Bramblestar’s ear. “PI go 
up with her, if that’s okay.” 

Bramblestar gave his deputy a grateful nod. 
“Please. I know she’ll be safe with you.” 

“Come on,’ Squirrelflight meowed, giving 
Rosepetal a friendly shove. “You chase squirrels up 
trees all the time. This is no different.” 

Rosepetal nodded, but she clearly wasn’t 
convinced. ‘TI try,” she whispered. 

‘TPI be right behind you,” Squirrelflight promised. 
“I won't let you fall.” 

Just do it now, not tomorrow, Bramblestar 
thought, conscious of the rising water. 

Squirrelflight nudged Rosepetal over to the path 
and they began to climb. To Bramblestar they seemed 
to be going agonizingly slow, but the she-cats steadily 


gained height, and to his relief Rosepetal didn’t freeze 
with terror like Molewhisker. Bramblestar noticed that 
Lionblaze and Cinderheart were standing at the top of 
the path, helping their Clanmates up the last few paw 
steps. Thank StarClan for them, he thought. And for 
all the cats who’re helping. Where would we be 
without them? 

His gaze fixed on the cliff, he didn’t see Millie until 
he felt her tail touch his shoulder, and turned to see her 
beside him, her whole body tense with worry. 

“What about Briarlight?” she whimpered. “She’Il 
never climb up there!” 

Bramblestar felt a heavy weight in his belly. He 
had imagined that some cat would carry Briarlight up 
the path, but now that he had watched his Clanmates 
make the climb, he knew that would be impossible. 
Glancing past Millie, he saw Briarlight waiting quietly 
beside Sandstorm and Dustpelt. She trusts me! Great 
StarClan, what am I going to do? 

“We? ll get her out,” he promised. “Let's send up as 
many of the others as we can first. Graystripe, 
Blossomfall, you go next. Sandstorm, as soon as 
they’re out of the way, can you help Purdy?” 


“Sure, Bramblestar,” Sandstorm responded. 

Purdy frowned at the narrow, twisty path. “I’m not 
sure my old legs will get me up there,” he grunted. 

“Of course they will”? Sandstorm reassured him. 
“And think what a great story you'll have to tell 
afterward!” 

With a muffled curse, the old cat began to climb 
the cliff. Sandstorm followed, encouraging him every 
step, but his progress became slower and slower as he 
climbed higher. Purdy was less than halfway up when 
part of the cliff face flaked off beneath his paws and 
he plunged backward in a shower of stones. 
Sandstorm dived forward to grab him, but she was too 
late. 

“Purdy!” she screeched. 

As he fell, Purdy grabbed for a scrawny bush that 
was growing in a crack in the rock. His front claws 
sank into it, while his hind paws scrabbled against the 
cliff face. 

“T’m stuck!” he yowled. 

Sandstorm leaned over, gripped Purdy’s shoulder 
fur in her teeth, and heaved, but she couldn’t pull him 


up. 


Bramblestar gave the waiting cats a swift glance. 
“TIl be back,” he meowed, then began to climb. 

When he reached Purdy, who still clung grimly to 
the bush, he realized the problem was worse than he 
thought. Just above them, the cliff face was starting to 
crumble away, probably eroded by the rain, and the 
weight of several cats was breaking it up even more. 

“Sorry, Bramblestar!” Purdy gasped. “I’m too old 
and stiff for this. I can’t get up or down, so I’d better 
live here, okay?” 

Bramblestar could see that the elder was trying to 
be brave, but he was clearly scared and humiliated by 
his failure. “No, this is no good as a den,” he 
responded, thinking quickly. “Sandstorm, go to the top 
and find a good, strong ivy stem, long enough to stretch 
down here. Get Lionblaze to help you.” 

“We’ll never haul Purdy up on an ivy stem,” 
Sandstorm objected. “He’s too heavy.” 

“Too many voles,” Purdy attempted to joke. “Not 
enough exercise.” 

“We might not be able to get him up,” Bramblestar 
replied to Sandstorm. “But we can lower him down. 
Once his paws are on firm ground, we can think 


again.” 

“Firm ground?” Purdy scoffed. “It’s a lake down 
there!” 

Sandstorm gave her Clan leader a brisk nod, and 
headed up the path. Bramblestar thought she was 
moving too fast for safety, but he didn’t call out to her, 
just appreciating her care for her Clanmate. 

Bramblestar stayed with Purdy until a long tendril 
of ivy came snaking down from the cliff top. Several 
stems had been twined together, making it strong. 

“We’re ready!” Sandstorm called down. 

“Okay, Purdy, grab the stem in your teeth,” 
Bramblestar instructed, guiding it into the old cat’s 
reach. 

Once Purdy was biting down on the tendril, 
Bramblestar climbed down to the next curve of the 
path, so that he was directly underneath the old cat. 
“Let go of the bush!” he yowled. 

Purdy hesitated, then pulled his claws out of the 
branch and clutched the ivy instead. He lurched down 
the cliff face, crashing and swinging from the tendril. 
Bramblestar fixed his hind claws into the gritty path 
and reached out with his front paws to take Purdy’s 


weight, guiding him to where he could stand. Purdy 
was stiff with fear, his eyes staring, but he let out a 
little snort of satisfaction when he felt his paws touch 
the rock. 

Bramblestar thought it was too risky to expect him 
to climb down the path on his own. Instead he made 
Purdy keep hold of the ivy tendril and yowled 
instructions up to Lionblaze and Sandstorm, who 
lowered the old cat stage by stage until he reached the 
bottom of the cliff. 

“We’re down!” Bramblestar called out to the cats 
at the top. But what do we do now? 

“TIl be fine,” Purdy meowed, shaking himself free 
from the ivy. “The hollow won't fill right up. PI wait 
out the storm on the Highledge.” 

‘TIl wait with him,” Briarlight meowed. 

Millie moved closer to her daughter. “In that case, 
I’m staying too.” 

Bramblestar looked at the water flowing into the 
camp through the thorn barrier. Already it was high 
enough to reach his flanks, and Briarlight was having 
to strain to keep her head above the surface. “No cat 
will be left behind,” he growled. 


“Then what are we going to do?” Millie hissed, her 
eyes wild with fear. 

Bramblestar spotted a branch bobbing past in the 
floodwater, and a plan began to form in his mind. “To 
start with,” he told Millie, “I want you and Leafpool to 
climb the cliff. Then Pll know you’re safe.” 

Millie stared at him in disbelief. “Have you got 
bees in your brain? I’m not leaving Briarlight!” 

Bramblestar clenched his teeth on a sharp reply. 
He understood Millie’s anxiety for her daughter, but 
she wasn’t helping. To his relief, Leafpool stepped 
forward and curled her tail around Millie’s shoulder. 
“Come on,” she urged kindly. “Briarlight will be fine. 
You can trust Bramblestar.” 

I hope she 5 right, Bramblestar thought. 

“It’s okay,” Briarlight mewed. “Go with Leafpool. 
PI see you at the top of the cliff.” 

Millie narrowed her eyes at Bramblestar. “If she 
dies, "Il never forgive you.” 

Bramblestar dipped his head to her. “Millie, I 
promise you that I’ Il get Briarlight out, or die trying.” 

Millie held his gaze for a moment longer, then 
turned away with Leafpool. The two she-cats vanished 


up the path. 

“I can climb the cliff too,” Jayfeather announced. 

“No, I need you to help with Briarlight,” 
Bramblestar replied. “No cat knows as much about her 
condition as you.” And I dont want a blind cat 
dangling off the cliff face. “Dustpelt, Pll need your 
help too,” he continued. “And it would be good to have 
Brackenfur.” 

He yowled the order to the top of the cliff, and a 
few moments later the golden-brown warrior 
appeared, treading sure-footedly along the path. 

Squirrelflight scrambled down after him. “What's 
going on?” she called. 

“We need to find a different way out of the 
hollow,” Bramblestar explained. “I thought we might 
use some kind of branch to float Briarlight and Purdy 
and Jayfeather out on the floodwater.” 

“Great StarClan, that's risky!” Brackenfur 
exclaimed. “Do you want us to find a branch?” 

“I have one in mind,” Bramblestar told him. “The 
memorial branch with the claw marks for the cats who 
fell in the Great Battle.” 

Jayfeather let out an outraged yelp. “Can't you use 


a different one?” 

“It’s by far the longest and strongest piece of wood 
in the camp,” Bramblestar pointed out. “Besides, if we 
use it, perhaps our fallen Clanmates will be able to help 
us. If ever we needed StarClan, it’s now.” 

Dustpelt and Brackenfur exchanged a glance, as if 
they were wondering whether their mates were 
watching over them. 

“We’ll get it,” Dustpelt meowed. 

The memorial branch had fallen on its side, but it 
was still visible, poking up out of the water below the 
Highledge. Brackenfur and Dustpelt waded over to it 
and dragged it back to the bushes where the other cats 
waited. 

“It’s not floating very well,’ Brackenfur remarked 
dubiously. 

“That’s because the water’s too shallow here,” 
Bramblestar meowed. “We need to push it farther 
out.” 

Dustpelt and Brackenfur maneuvered the branch 
away from the cliff face, until they stood in water that 
lapped against their shoulders. “It’s fine here!” 
Brackenfur called. 


“Come on, then, this way,” Squirrelflight urged the 
other cats. 

“You don’t have to do this,’ Bramblestar 
murmured to her as they guided Purdy, Jayfeather, and 
Briarlight toward the branch. “You should go back up 
the cliff to the others.” 

Squirrelflight turned a green glare on him. “You 
annoying furball, if you think you can send me—” 

Bramblestar interrupted her by resting his tail on 
her shoulder. A spark of warmth woke inside him at his 
deputy’s courage and bold spirit. “That's no way to talk 
to your Clan leader,” he purred. “Come on, I won’t 
argue.” 

Squirrelflight snorted. As they headed into deeper 
water, Briarlight was hardly able to keep her head 
above the surface. With her hind legs dragging behind 
her, she could only raise herself on her forelegs, and 
the floodwater washed around her muzzle. 

Bramblestar pushed through the swirling water 
until he was alongside her. “Here, hang on to me.” He 
tried to hide his wince of pain as Briarlight dug her 
claws into his shoulder. She managed to raise her head 
a mouse-length, but with her added weight 


Bramblestar could hardly make any headway through 
the water. His paws sank into mud, and the young she- 
cat’s body dragged at him. 

“Wait,” Squirrelflight mewed. “I’ve got an idea.” 

She splashed over to the side of the hollow where 
Brackenfur and Dustpelt kept their den-building 
supplies, and came back with a bundle of twigs 
clamped in her jaws. “Here, Briarlight, shove these 
under your belly. They should hold you up a bit.” 

Briarlight let go of Bramblestar while Squirrelflight 
thrust the twigs into place. To Bramblestar’s relief they 
boosted her a little way out of the water, enough for 
her to keep her muzzle clear and drag herself forward. 

The other cats were waiting for them beside the 
memorial branch. Pushing it ahead of them, they 
waded toward the camp entrance. Water was gushing 
in from the flooded lake, the strong current threatening 
to sweep them off their paws. For a moment 
Bramblestar wondered if they had enough strength to 
push their way against it, and he kept an especially 
close eye on Briarlight. 

There was a squawk from Jayfeather as he lost his 
balance, the cry cut off abruptly as his head went 


under. Bramblestar plunged toward him and dived 
below the surface, wondering if he would be able to 
find him in this chaos of water. Then a thrashing tail hit 
him in the ear. Bramblestar lashed out a paw and sank 
his claws into sodden fur. He dragged Jayfeather 
upward; the medicine cat’s head broke the surface and 
he began coughing up mouthfuls of water. 

“Thanks,” he spluttered, managing to stand again. 
“I really hate water!” 

The current swirled and bubbled around them as 
they forced their way through the gap. Outside the 
camp the flood stretched in all directions. All 
Bramblestar could see was tossing water with debris 
floating in it and trees looming out of it, their roots, 
trunks, and even some of the lower branches 
swallowed up by the rising lake. 

“Okay,” he meowed. “This is where you climb 
onto the branch.” 

“I don’t think this is goin’ to work,” Purdy 
muttered, eyeing the branch. 

“Come on,” Squirrelflight encouraged him. 
“Twolegs do this all the time. We’ve seen them floating 
on the lake in those flat things with pelts sticking up to 


catch the wind. If they can do it, so can you! You’re 
not telling me you're more stupid than a Twoleg, are 
you?” 

Purdy grunted and began hauling himself onto the 
branch while Brackenfur and Dustpelt steadied it. To 
Bramblestar’s surprise, once Purdy was crouching on 
top of the stick, he balanced quite easily, and turned his 
head to give Squirrelflight a smug look. 

“Reckon I could teach Upwalkers a thing or two,” 
he purred. 

Jayfeather climbed quickly onto the branch once 
Bramblestar showed him where to put his paws, his 
light weight making it easier for him. But it was a 
struggle for Briarlight to haul herself up. She couldn’t 
move her hind legs; when Bramblestar shoved them 
onto the branch they fell off again. The water tugged 
at them, threatening to sweep Briarlight away. 

“What should I do?” she wailed. 

For a horrible moment Bramblestar didn’t have an 
answer. 

Then Squirrelflight exclaimed, “Wait!” 

To Bramblestar’s alarm she turned around and 
headed back into the camp, half wading and half 


swimming as the current swept her along. 

“You can’t go back in there!” Bramblestar yowled 
after her. 

Squirrelflight’s voice came faintly back through the 
wind and the rain. ‘TIl be fine!” 

Bramblestar’s heart thumped painfully as he 
waited for her return. He sagged with relief when he 
saw her battling her way back through the water. She 
was dragging something with her; as she drew closer 
he saw that it was the ivy tendril they had used to 
lower Purdy down the cliff. 

“We can use this to tie Briarlight to the branch,” 
Squirrelflight panted as she came up to the others. 
“Quick, lift up her hind legs.” 

Once Bramblestar was holding Briarlight’s legs in 
position, Squirrelflight took the twisted ivy stems in her 
jaws and dived underneath the branch, coming up on 
the other side. Brackenfur grabbed the tendril and 
wrapped it around Briarlight, ready for Squirrelflight to 
carry it under the branch again. 

“That feels secure,” Briarlight meowed when they 
had repeated the move a few times. She looked tiny 
and fragile, her pelt slicked flat with water and her blue 


eyes huge as moons. Her front paws were wrapped 
around the branch, claws dug into the pale wood. 

Squirrelflight resurfaced for the last time, water 
streaming from her dark ginger pelt, and tucked the 
end of the tendril underneath Briarlight’s chest. “Tell 
me if you think it’s coming loose.” 

With all three cats balanced on the branch, 
Squirrelflight and Dustpelt began to guide it through the 
water from the front while Bramblestar and 
Brackenfur pushed from behind. As soon as they 
began to move the branch wobbled violently. 
Jayfeather let out an apprehensive hiss, but all three 
dug their claws in hard and managed to cling on. 

As soon as they were outside the hollow, the water 
grew deeper, so that Bramblestar and his Clanmates 
had to swim. Bramblestar fought his way through 
churning water, hissing when his legs kept getting 
caught on branches and foliage below the surface. 
Once his paw was trapped in what felt like brambles; 
he had to wrench it hard to free himself and keep 
swimming. Wind ruffled the water and dashed rain into 
his face, but all he could do was go on battling his way 
forward toward higher ground. 


StarClan, save us! he prayed silently as his 
drenched pelt dragged at him. We cant do this alone! 

The only way he could keep going was to grip the 
branch in his teeth while paddling furiously with all four 
legs. Water gushed into his mouth; he had to keep 
swallowing, making it almost impossible to breathe. / 
won t let go! Beside him, Brackenfur was having the 
same difficulties, and his breath rasped noisily over the 
sound of the wind. Bramblestar only caught glimpses 
of Squirrelflight and Dustpelt at the front of the branch, 
Just enough to know that they were still afloat, still 
swimming. 

Slowly the four cats maneuvered the branch 
around the side of the hollow toward the closest spot 
where the sloping ground emerged from the 
floodwater. Bramblestar gasped with relief when his 
paws thrashed against solid earth and he could walk 
under the water, pushing the branch forward with his 
chest and paws until it grounded. Purdy heaved himself 
up and stepped off, splashing through the last tail- 
length of floodwater until he was standing on the rain- 
soaked grass of the slope that led up to the cliff top. 
Jayfeather scrambled after him. 


Squirrelflight waded to Briarlight’s side and began 
tearing at the ivy tendril, but before she could free her 
Clanmate a huge brown wave swelled up and crashed 
against the branch. It knocked Squirrelflight off her 
paws and she vanished into the water. The branch 
flipped over, trapping Briarlight beneath the surface. 
Bramblestar plunged down, finding Squirrelflight almost 
at once and shoving her up into the air. Then he groped 
toward the branch and tore the ivy away with his teeth 
and claws. He knew Briarlight was free, but he could 
feel her body sinking helplessly down into the flood. 

The water swirled again and Bramblestar spotted 
Dustpelt diving down beside him. Together they 
grabbed Briarlight’s body and hauled her upward, 
thrusting her toward the slope where Brackenfur 
dragged her clear of the water. Gasping for breath, 
Bramblestar looked down at the she-cat. Briarlight lay 
unmoving, a trickle of water escaping from her mouth. 

“She can’t be dead!” Squirrelflight wailed. 

I promised Millie, Bramblestar thought. I said 1 
would save her or die trying. 

“Get out of the way!” Jayfeather thrust 
Bramblestar aside and pounced on Briarlight, working 


feverishly as he pressed her chest down again and 
again. “I won’t let her drown!” 

There was agony in the medicine cat’s voice. 
Bramblestar remembered how Jayfeather had 
struggled in the lake to rescue Flametail, how he had 
nearly drowned trying to bring the ShadowClan 
medicine cat back to the surface. He failed then; 
StarClan, please don t let him fail now! 

Suddenly Briarlight’s body jerked and she coughed 
up a mouthful of dirty water. Bramblestar saw her 
chest rise and fall as she took a breath. A moment 
later she raised her head. “Did we make it?” she 
asked feebly. 

“We did,” Bramblestar meowed. He felt dizzy with 
relief. 

Squirrelflight gave Briarlight’s ear a lick. “Come 
on, let’s get you to the top of the cliff. Millie and 
Graystripe will be worried about you.” 

Bramblestar could see that Briarlight was too 
weak to walk. “PI carry you,” he told her, and added 
to the others, “Lift her onto my back.” 

He was about to begin the weary trudge up the hill 
when he noticed Jayfeather pacing beside the water. 


“What's the matter?” he asked. 

“I can’t find the memorial branch,” the medicine 
cat replied. 

Scanning the edge of the flood, Bramblestar 
guessed that the branch had been swept away by the 
wave that had knocked Squirrelflight and Briarlight 
underwater. He thought he could spot it floating 
several fox-lengths away, but there were so many 
pieces of debris tossing on the flood that he couldn't be 
certain it was the right one. “It’s gone,” he meowed. 
“Washed away.” 

“But it held the memory of our dead Clanmates!” 
Jayfeather wailed. 

“No, our hearts and minds hold those memories,” 
Bramblestar reminded him. “And the branch saved the 
cats who needed its help. Now we hold that memory 
as well” When Jayfeather did not reply, he added, 
“When all this is over, you can make another.” 

Jayfeather mumbled agreement and turned away. 

Brackenfur took the lead as the little group of 
drenched cats plodded up the hill under the trees. His 
shoulders ached under Briarlight’s weight, and his 
paws kept slipping on the muddy ground. Branches 


lashed at them, the trees almost bent double in the 
wind. Closer to the cliffs the ground was more open, 
and the going would be easier, but Bramblestar didn’t 
dare go closer to the edge. We could all be blown 
over, back into the hollow. 

“I'm going to fetch some of the others to help,” 
Squirrelflight announced, breaking into a run. 

Where does she get her energy? Bramblestar 
wondered, feeling as weary and battered as the oldest 
elder. He carried on toiling up the slope until he saw 
Squirrelflight coming back with a group of his 
Clanmates. Millie was racing ahead, stumbling and 
skidding in her haste to get to her daughter. Graystripe 
was Close behind, with Lionblaze and Cinderheart. 

“Briarlight!” Millie screeched as she reached 
Bramblestar and the others. “Are you okay?” She 
covered her daughter with frantic licks. 

“Pm fine,’ Briarlight replied hoarsely. “My 
Clanmates looked after me.” 

Millie turned toward Bramblestar, blinking in 
gratitude. “Thank you,” she meowed. “Thank you from 
the bottom of my heart.” 

Bramblestar felt hot with embarrassment. “Every 


cat helped,” he mumbled. 

Lionblaze stepped forward. “Here, let me carry 
her. You must be exhausted.” 

Bramblestar was only too willing to let the other 
cats transfer Briarlight from his back to Lionblaze’s. 
As they set off up the slope again, Graystripe gave 
Bramblestar a boost under his shoulder, while 
Squirrelflight and Cinderheart helped Purdy. At the top 
of the slope Bramblestar saw that Sandstorm had 
gathered the rest of the cats under a beech tree. It 
didn’t give much shelter, but although the branches 
lashed and groaned in the wind, they were sturdy 
enough not to snap. Soaked and scared, the cats 
huddled together in a mass of drenched fur. 

Several pairs of eyes stared anxiously at 
Bramblestar as he reached them. “We’ll stay here until 
the storm passes,” he decided. “Try to get some rest if 
you can.” He sank to the ground where he was, dazed 
with tiredness and only half-aware of Squirrelflight 
coming to lie next to him, warming him with her fur. 


Bramblestar woke to a strange calm, and for a 
moment he wondered where he was. He should have 


been asleep in his den on the Highledge, not dozing 
uncomfortably on a thin layer of fallen leaves. Then he 
saw branches densely blocking out the sky above him, 
and heard his Clanmates stirring, and he remembered 
the desperate escape from the hollow in the middle of 
the night. The rain had stopped and the wind died 
down to a faint, whispering breeze. The sky was still 
covered with cloud, but it was much thinner, and a 
silver glow suggested that the sun had climbed almost 
to sunhigh. Bramblestar hauled himself stiffly to his 
paws and padded out of the shelter of the beech tree. 

From up here, he could look out at the whole lake 
and the land beyond. For a moment he swayed on his 
paws. The forest was a wreck of swirling water and 
floating debris. Water reflecting the pale gray sky had 
risen up the sides of the hill and spilled over the far 
shore, swallowing up the fields as far as Bramblestar 
could see. 

RiverClan has been completely flooded! he 
thought, every hair on his pelt rising in horror. 
WindClan should be okay, he added to himself as his 
gaze swept around to take in the moor. Their camp is 
pretty high up. His belly lurched when he turned to 


look out across ShadowClan territory. The flat area of 
pines was waterlogged, with only the top halves of the 
trees sticking up above the flood. 

“This is terrible!” Birchfall gasped, padding up 
behind Bramblestar. “What has happened to the other 
Clans?” 

“We need to worry about our own Clan first,” 
Bramblestar replied. We’re in no state to help any 
other cats. 

More warriors emerged from the shelter of the 
tree and studied the devastation with looks of stunned 
disbelief. Bramblestar beckoned to some of them with 
his tail. “I want a patrol to come down with me and 
check out the hollow,’ he meowed. “Cloudtail, 
Brightheart, Cherryfall—and you too, Birchfall.” 

With the cats he had named squelching after him 
through the muddy grass, Bramblestar led the way 
down the slope to a point on the cliff top where they 
could get a good view of the whole camp. His heart 
lurched when he looked over the edge. All that was 
left of the ThunderClan camp was a pool of gray 
water that stretched halfway up the cliff. There was 
no sign of the clearing, or the dens, or even the 


Highledge. Our home is gone! 
“Great StarClan!” Cloudtail whispered beside him. 
“What are we going to do now?” 





CHAPTER 9 
> 


v 


“We cant shelter under this tree forever,’ 
Bramblestar announced. “We need to find somewhere 
to make a temporary camp.” 

When the patrol had returned from the flooded 
hollow, Bramblestar had called a Clan meeting. To his 
surprise, his Clan seemed undaunted by the chalenge 
of finding a new home. 

“What about the old Twoleg nest?” Blossomfall 
suggested. 

Bramblestar shook his head. “It’s lower than the 
hollow,” he replied. “Tt’Il be flooded.” 

“Why don’t we use the tunnels?” Ivypool meowed. 

Bramblestar heard a sharp intake of breath from 
Lionblaze, and remembered how the golden tabby 
warrior had once been trapped when the tunnels 
flooded. Other cats were exchanging nervous glances. 
But remembering his own vague knowledge of the 
tunnels from Hollyleaf’s training and the battle with 
WindClan, Bramblestar thought the idea had 
possibilities. [t's probably the best we can do. 


“Good thinking, Ivypool,” he meowed. “And no cat 
needs to worry about getting lost or trapped by rising 
water. We’ll stay well away from the cavern where 
the underground river flows.” 

His Clanmates started talking to one another, 
raising their voices to be heard above the clashing of 
the branches overhead. To Bramblestar’s dismay, the 
lull in the storm was over. The rain had started again 
and the wind was growing stronger. Heavy drops of 
rain penetrated the branches of the beech tree, soaking 
fur that had begun to dry out. 

“I don’t care where we go,” Berrynose declared. 
“T just want somewhere out of the wet!” 

Bramblestar ordered Lionblaze and Cinderheart to 
take the Clan to the tunnel entrance on the hillside 
above the cliffs. 

Squirrelflight gathered the apprentices together and 
spoke in a low voice. “I want you all to look after 
Purdy,” she told them. “He’s had a tough time and he 
must be feeling sore and tired. But for StarClan’s sake, 
don’t let him know that you’re helping him.” 

Lilypaw nodded, looking thoughtful. “I know! We’ ll 
ask him to help us.” She pattered over to Purdy. 


“We’re scared about going into the tunnels,” she 
mewed to the old cat. “Will you stay with us?” 

“Sure, young ’un.” Purdy heaved himself to his 
paws. “Nothin’ to be scared of when you’re with me.” 

He stumbled off after Lionblaze and Cinderheart 
with all the apprentices clustered around him. 

Squirrelflight glanced at Bramblestar with a smug 
flick of her whiskers. “Easy . . .” she murmured. 

Bramblestar blinked gratefully at her, then turned 
to Dovewing. “Can you guide Jayfeather?” he asked 
her. 

“Sure.” 

“I can guide myself, thanks,” Jayfeather cut in with 
a snort. 

“No, you cant.” Bramblestar stood over the 
scrawny medicine cat. “Jayfeather, there may be a 
time when it helps for you to be an uncooperative 
furball, but this isn’t it. The whole forest has changed 
because of the wind. There are fallen trees, branches 
scattered everywhere . . . Just let Dovewing help you, 
and put up with it.” 

Jayfeather sighed. “Yes, O great Clan leader.” 

Leaving Dovewing to cope with him, Bramblestar 


went to look for Briarlight. He found her near the trunk 
of the beech tree with Millie and Graystripe. “Up you 
come,” he meowed, crouching down so that she could 
climb onto his back. “We’ll soon have you somewhere 

“Pm giving you so much trouble,” Briarlight 
murmured as Graystripe helped her onto Bramblestar’s 
shoulders. 

“No, you’re not,” Millie purred, though her eyes 
were worried. Bramblestar guessed that she was 
bothered by her daughter’s depressed mood. 

“You're doing me a favor, actually,’ he told 
Briarlight. “You'll keep the rain off my back while 
you’re up there. And you’re no heavier than a good- 
sized squirrel!” 

That wasn’t entirely true, he thought as he plodded 
up the hillside. Briarlight’s weight pressed down on his 
shoulders, making it hard to force a way through the 
tangled undergrowth. The rest of the cats followed in a 
miserable line, their heads down and their tails trailing 
in the mud while the howling wind swept their fur 
backward. 

When they reached the entrance to the tunnels, 


half-hidden behind an outcrop of rocks, the cats 
clustered around, waiting for their turn to squeeze 
inside. Though the dark hole looked forbidding, they 
were all eager to get out of the storm. 

“Wow, this is so weird!” Amberpaw exclaimed as 
she padded a couple of tail-lengths down the tunnel. 
“You said Hollyleaf lived down here? Did she really?” 
she asked Spiderleg. 

Her mentor nodded. “She did, for several moons. 
None of us knew she was here.” 

“And you fought WindClan here?” Dewpaw 
added. “How did you see anything?” 

“What happened if you got lost?” Snowpaw 
shuddered, though Bramblestar thought he was 
enjoying the adventure. “What if you never found your 
way out?” 

“That’s enough,” Whitewing meowed. “You can’t 
stand here chattering all day.” 

“Yes, you’re blocking the tunnel,” Ivypool hissed. 
“Cats are waiting out in the rain.” 

“Sorry,” Seedpaw mewed, nudging the younger 
apprentices ahead of her. “They’re still kits, really,” 
she added to Ivypool. 


“Kit yourself!” Amberpaw retorted. 

“Let’s explore,’ Dewpaw urged. “I want to see 
everything. Come on, Purdy.” 

“Don't go far!” Ivypool called after them. 

Hoping that Purdy would stop the apprentices from 
doing anything too stupid, Bramblestar followed them 
down the tunnel. When he reached a place where it 
grew a little wider, just before the light from the 
entrance faded entirely, he let Briarlight slide from his 
shoulders. Millie rushed up to her daughter and began 
to groom her fur, licking it the wrong way to dry it and 
warm her up. 

As the rest of the cats settled around them in pulpy 
mounds of wet fur, Bramblestar wondered what kind 
of life Hollyleaf had led in the darkness of the tunnels. 
He had a vivid memory of the starlit cat who had stood 
over Hollyleaf as she died in the Great Battle. What 
was his name? Fallen Leaves. He wasnt a Clan 
cat, but he seemed to know Hollyleaf very well. 1 
wonder if they met down here. 

“Bramblestar.” Cinderheart’s voice roused him 
from his thoughts. 

Bramblestar twitched his ears. “Yes, what is it?” 


“Do you think we should explore a bit farther?” the 
gray she-cat asked. “Should we check if there’s any 
flooding belowground? With all this rain. . .” 

“Good thinking,’ Bramblestar responded, though 
inwardly he winced at the thought of having to get up 
and move again. “Find some other cats to go with us.” 

Cinderheart nodded and padded away, returning a 
moment later with Lionblaze and Ivypool. Bramblestar 
rose to his paws and led them down the tunnel. They 
had to pick ther way through the rest of the 
ThunderClan cats, who bunched anxiously together, 
unhappy in the cold shadows. Purdy was farthest 
down the tunnel, with all five apprentices clustered 
around him. 

“So we all climbed onto the branch,” he was 
meowing. “Squirrelflight had to tie Briarlight on with a 
bit of ivy...” 

The apprentices had their jaws open with 
excitement. Even in his weary state, Bramblestar had 
to stifle a mrrow of amusement to think that their 
desperate struggle for safety had already become a 
thrilling story for Purdy to tell. Satisfied that his Clan 
was safe for the time being, he headed into the 


darkness. The damp underpaw owed nothing to the 
recent rain and everything to the absence of sunlight 
and fresh air down here. Bramblestar had always been 
uneasy in the tunnels, but this time something was 
different. Before he had always felt as if he was being 
watched, as if there was something just out of hearing 
or sight in the shadows. But now the passages felt 
silent and empty. Somehow this made them even 
bleaker and more unwelcoming, especially as the light 
faded behind the warriors until they walked in 
complete darkness. 

Bramblestar could tell that Ivypool and Lionblaze 
felt the difference too: There was a wariness about 
them, a subtle change in their scent, as if they were 
expecting something to happen. 

The tunnel led downward in a straight line, so 
narrow that Bramblestar could feel his pelt brushing 
the walls on both sides. 

“We should come to a side tunnel soon,” Lionblaze 
meowed after a while. “We ought to take it, and check 
out the main cave.” 

Before he had taken many more paw steps, 
Bramblestar felt a colder flow of air from one side, and 


turned into the new tunnel. This passage was narrower 
stil, and twisted around sharp comers so that 
Bramblestar had to swallow down a fear of getting his 
shoulders wedged. A dull roar came up the tunnel to 
greet them, growing louder as they headed farther 
down. Gradually Bramblestar realized that he could 
see the walls ahead of him in a dim light. 

“We’re getting close to the cave,” he reported. 

A heartbeat later he halted with icy black water 
lapping against his paws. The cave was filled with a 
dark torrent, waves glinting in the light that came from 
the crack in the roof. 

“Get back!” Bramblestar warned. 

When he and his Clanmates had retreated several 
paw steps from the water’s edge, Bramblestar stopped 
again, looking back. “We ought to make sure that the 
water isn’t rising,” he mewed. 

Cautiously he crept back along the passage and 
scored his claws down the wall to mark the highest 
point of the water. Moments dragged by as he 
crouched there watching. After a while he realized 
that Lionblaze was peering over his shoulder. 

“Its not getting any worse,” the golden tabby 


warrior murmured. 

Bramblestar nodded. “I think we can go back,” he 
decided. “This is the lowest part of the caves, so we 
should be safe where we are.” 

He let Lionblaze take the lead back to where their 
Clanmates were waiting. 

“It looks like we’ll be okay here,” Bramblestar 
announced. “But the big cave is flooded, so no cat is to 
go farther down.” He turned around to give the 
apprentices a hard look. “Understood?” 

The young cats nodded seriously, and Bramblestar 
hoped that their adventures so far had taught them 
how dangerous water could be. 

Glancing around his Clan, Bramblestar was 
pleased to see that they seemed more relaxed than 
when he had left them to explore the tunnels. They had 
dried off and groomed themselves. One or two were 
sleeping, but most of them were watching him with 
bright, expectant eyes. 

“So this is our new camp,” he began. “We have to 
assume that we’ll be here for several days.” 

“Then we’ll need clean, fresh bedding,’ Daisy 
meowed. “T'Il take charge of that, if you want, 


Bramblestar.” 

“That would be great, Daisy,’ Bramblestar replied. 
“Pick a few cats to go with you, and see if you can 
salvage any dry moss and leaves.” 

“We might find some inside hollow trees.” Daisy 
rose to her paws and glanced around. “Rosepetal, 
Mousewhisker, will you come with me?” 

The three cats slipped out together into the rain- 
drenched forest. Bramblestar realized with relief that 
while he had been down in the tunnels the storm had 
blown itself out again; only a light drizzle was falling. 
He noticed that Leafpool was leaving the tunnel too, 
hard on the paws of the other cats, without telling him 
where she was going. He felt a stab of annoyance, 
then reminded himself that medicine cats didn’t have to 
answer to their Clan leader. 

“What about prey?” Cloudtail called. “My belly 
thinks my throat’s clawed out! PI lead a hunting patrol 
if you like.” 

“So will I,” Bumblestripe added. 

“And me,” Graystripe meowed. “Though what 
we’ ll find out there, I don’t know.” 

Several cats jomed in, offering to join the patrols. 


Cloudtail raised his voice above the clamor. “What 
about the fresh-kill pile, Bramblestar? Where do you 
want it?” 

“Tt’ ll have to be in here,” Bramblestar meowed. 

“What?” Berrynose gave a snort of disgust. 
“Sleeping next to fresh-kill? Yuck!” 

Bramblestar suppressed an irritated hiss. “If you 
have a better idea, share it with the rest of us,” he 
mewed. “If we leave prey outside, it will get wet, or 
foxes will steal it.” 

As the warriors divided themselves into groups, 
Bramblestar began padding up the tunnel to join 
Cloudtail’s patrol. He was stopped by Sandstorm, who 
blocked his path with her ginger tail. 

“I think you should stay here, where your Clan can 
see you,” she advised him in a quiet voice. “They need 
to know that you’re safe and in control.” 

Bramblestar knew she was right, though his tail-tip 
twitched in frustration to see the hunting patrols going 
off without him. He was distracted by Leafpool, who 
reappeared just as the hunters were leaving. 

“Where have you been?” Bramblestar asked her 
sharply. Medicine cat or not, she shouldnt be 


wandering about on her own in the flooded forest. 

“Only down to the top of the hollow,’ Leafpool 
mewed. “When I looked down into the camp, I thought 
I could see some bundles of herbs floating in the water. 
Can I go fetch them?” 

Bramblestar’s first instinct was to refuse. “It’s too 
risky,” he began. 

“No, P'Il be fine, really,” Leafpool assured him. 

“Some cat needs to go,” Jayfeather broke in from 
where he sat nearby. “We’ve lost so many herbs to 
this flood; we need to salvage as many as we can.” 

Bramblestar could see that the medicine cats had a 
point. Any one of us could go down with 
greencough, or get injured on all the branches 
lying about the forest. “Okay,” he meowed to 
Leafpool. “But take a warrior with you. One who 
doesn’t mind getting wet!” 

“Thanks, Bramblestar.” Leafpool went out, 
beckoning Cherryfall to follow her. 

“TI go into the forest and see if I can find any 
herbs that haven’t been washed away,” Jayfeather 
mewed, hauling himself to his paws. 

“Not alone,” Bramblestar ordered. 


Jayfeather heaved a long sigh. “Okay, not alone. 
Brightheart, will you come with me?” 

When they had gone, Bramblestar looked around. 
Most of the cats were out on patrol now, except for 
Millie and Briarlight, Purdy and the apprentices, and 
Thornclaw, who was deep in sleep, worn out after his 
tough night on watch. It had to be a good idea to keep 
to the Clan’s daily routine as much as possible, if only 
to stop them from worrying. 

In spite of Sandstorm’s advice, Bramblestar was 
too restless to stay in the tunnel for long. He padded 
out and headed for the cliffs, his pelt soaked and 
muddy again as he tried to find a clear route through 
the undergrowth. By the time he reached the top of the 
hollow he saw that Leafpool and Cherryfall had made 
their way down the steep path and were swimming 
around in the flood, grasping at scraps of floating 
greenery. Their voices drifted up to him. 

“Leafpool, is this anything useful?” 

“No, it’s just an oak twig. I found some tansy, 
though.” 

“Yuck! That’s just slimy tree bark!” 

Bramblestar turned at the sound of paw steps and 


saw Sandstorm padding up to him. He tensed, 
expecting a scolding for leaving the tunnel, but 
understanding shone in the she-cat’s green eyes. 

“Firestar always found it hardest when he had to 
let his Clanmates do something dangerous,” she 
mewed. “He felt that because he had nine lives, he 
could spare a few!” 

“He was right.” Bramblestar felt a wave of guilt 
sweep over him. “T should be the one to hunt in the 
flooded forest, or go swimming in the hollow after 
herbs.” 

Sandstorm touched his ear with her nose. “You 
can’t do everything,’ she murmured. “You have to 
trust your Clanmates.” 

“I know,” Bramblestar sighed, but he felt a sharp 
pang of envy for his warriors, who were able to act on 
his orders. 

He returned to the tunnel with Sandstorm to check 
on the cats who remained there. Briarlight was 
sleeping at last, with Millie drowsily licking her pelt. 
Purdy was asleep, too, while Dustpelt had lined up the 
apprentices and was testing them on their knowledge 
of the warrior code. Bramblestar was pleased to see 


him keeping the young cats occupied and out of 
trouble. 

Not long after, Cloudtail returned with his hunting 
party, dragging three rabbits with them. 

“Good job!” Bramblestar exclaimed. “I didn't 
expect you to bring back as much as that.” 

“We didn’t exactly catch it,’ Cloudtail admitted, 
dropping his rabbit near the entrance to start a new 
fresh-kill pile. “These rabbits drowned. The floodwater 
must have washed them out of their burrow.” 

“That's crow-food!” Snowpaw spat, his lips curling 
back and his white pelt beginning to fluff up. “I’m not 
eating that.” 

“Then you can go hungry,” Dustpelt snapped, 
swiping the apprentice over the ear with his tail. 

“IPI be okay,’ Bramblestar meowed. “Those 
rabbits can’t have been dead long. We’re all hungry 
and we need to eat. We’ll find live prey soon.” 

But when the other hunting patrols returned, 
Graystripe was empty-pawed, while Bumblestripe’s 
cats had only managed to kill one thrush. 

The rabbits are starting to look a lot more 
appetizing, Bramblestar thought. 


Sandstorm and Blossomfall began to dole out the 
prey, while Leafpool and Cherryfall returned with the 
few herbs they had managed to salvage. Leafpool 
found a hole in the tunnel wall to act as a store. 
Jayfeather and Brightheart weren’t far behind, 
carrying yarrow and marigold. 

“It’s a start,” Jayfeather commented as he placed 
his herbs in the hole beside Leafpool’s. “But we’ve got 
no cobweb at all. I just hope no cats cut themselves.” 

“Bramblestar?” Cloudtail beckoned him aside with 
a wave of his tail. “I need to tell you something.” 

“Not more trouble?” Bramblestar asked, his belly 
starting to churn unpleasantly. 

“Im not sure. When I was leading the patrol along 
the floodwater, I drank some. The water tasted very 
odd. Do you think it could be poisoned?” 

“Great StarClan, I hope not,’ Bramblestar 
meowed. Had something bad been washed into the 
flood? “Show me where you went. I’d like to taste it 
for myself.” 

He followed Cloudtail as the white warrior 
retraced his steps to the flood. It still felt very strange 
to see a huge lake lapping halfway up the hillside. How 


are we going to survive in the middle of all this 
water? 

Cloudtail halted at the water’s edge. “Just here,” 
he meowed. 

Reminding himself that a taste of the water hadn’t 
killed Cloudtail, Bramblestar crouched down and 
lapped. Cloudtail was right: The water did taste 
different. But Bramblestar had encountered the sharp 
tang before. 

“It’s salty, like the water from the sun-drown- 
place,” he told Cloudtail, straightening up again and 
flicking drops from his whiskers. 

“How has that water reached all the way here?” 
Cloudtail asked, amazed. “Is the lake going to turn into 
a sun-drown-place?” 

“T don’t know,” Bramblestar admitted. “But I can 
tell you one thing. It isn’t poison. I swallowed enough 
of it when we traveled there and I fell in. But we still 
can’t drink it. The few drops I tasted have just made 
me more thirsty.” 

“So what are we going to drink?” Cloudtail lashed 
his tail. “There are no streams up here. The closest is 
on the WindClan border.” 


Bramblestar lapped up a few mouthfuls of 
rainwater from a puddle in the grass, to get the acrid 
tang off his tongue. Going thirsty won t be a problem 
for us while its still raining, he thought. But how 
long will we have to rely on that? It could take a 
while for the lake to shrink again. 

Returning to the tunnel, he called to Berrynose and 
Poppyfrost, who were sharing part of a rabbit at the 
entrance. “I want to take a patrol to the WindClan 
border,” he meowed. “We need to find out how easy it 
is to get to the stream there, and whether the flood has 
affected it.” 

The two cats hurriedly swallowed their last 
mouthfuls and came to join him. Glancing at 
Sandstorm, Bramblestar added, “Is it okay for me to 
leave? Again?” 

Amusement glimmered in Sandstorm’s green eyes. 
“Oh, yes,” she assured him. “No cat wants an idle 
leader!” 

Bramblestar took the lead as the three cats trekked 
through the soaked forest. The rain had stopped and 
the wind died down, but the trees were still dripping, 
and the banks of fern and long grasses spilled their 


loads of water on the cats as they brushed past. 

As they crossed the territory, Bramblestar felt his 
tension rising. All the sights and scents of the forest 
had changed. His pads prickled with the knowledge 
that the edge of the lake was only a few fox-lengths 
below them. Apart from the sound of water lapping 
and drops falling from trees, the woods were silent. 
There were no faint scufflings to betray the presence 
of prey, no birdsong in the branches. Where have they 
all gone? Bramblestar wondered. How long will it be 
before they come back? 

It took a long time to make their way around the 
flooded parts of the territory. At last they emerged into 
the stretch of sparse young trees that led up to the 
WindClan border. The sound of the stream, rushing and 
gurgling, reached their ears as they bounded through 
the thin woodland to the border. Just here the water 
usually flowed deep beneath overhanging banks. Now 
it was level with the top of the gully, a brown flood 
sweeping twigs and leaves in the fast current. 

“Keep back, both of you,” Bramblestar warned. 

He crouched down at the edge of the water, 
stretching out his neck so that he could lap. He dug his 


claws hard into the ground, fighting the fear of being 
swept away like a loose twig. But the water he drank 
had a cold, clear taste that reminded him of the 
mountains. 

“Thank StarClan, it’s fine!” he meowed, rising and 
backing away. 

As he spoke the patter of rapid paw steps came 
from farther upstream, along with angry yowls and 
hisses. To Bramblestar’s astonishment a WindClan 
patrol raced into sight on the ThunderClan side of the 
stream. 

Weaselfur, who was in the lead, let out a furious 
screech. “Get away from there!” 

Bramblestar faced him, his fur bristling. “What do 
you mean?” he demanded. “You’re on our territory!” 

Behind him, he was aware of Berrynose and 
Poppyfrost sliding out their claws. The two other 
WindClan cats, Leaftail and Furzepelt, hurtled toward 
them as if they were about to leap into battle. 

But Weaselfur halted when he reached the 
ThunderClan cats, signaling to his patrol to do the 
same. “This is the only clean water we have,” he 
mewed, glaring at Bramblestar. “We have reset the 


border markers to this side of the stream. It belongs to 
WindClan now.” 

“Don't be mouse-brained!” Bramblestar snapped. 
“Look at all that water! There’s enough for every cat.” 

But the WindClan warriors were too wound up to 
listen. “Stay away from that water!” Furzepelt snarled. 

Poppyfrost took a step forward. “Do you really 
want to fight for it?” she growled. 

At once Leaftail hurled himself at her, knocking 
her over and clawing at her ears. Berrynose started 
forward to help her, but Bramblestar flung himself 
between them, pushing the cream-colored warrior 
back with a paw on his shoulder. 

“Stop!” he growled. “Poppyfrost can cope. I don’t 
want an all-out battle.” 

As the two cats rolled screeching on the ground, 
Bramblestar turned to Weaselfur. “This is madness,” 
he meowed. “You can’t shift an entire border because 
the lake has risen.” 

“Yes, we can,” Weaselfur retorted, “and we have. 
If you have a problem, you’ ll have to speak to Onestar. 
But know that ThunderClan cats will not be welcome 
in our territory.” 


For a moment all Bramblestar’s instincts were to 
leap on the WindClan warrior and claw the stubborn 
look off his face. We can beat these scrawny rabbit- 
chasers easily! But fighting here wouldn’t solve 
anything. Instead he stalked across to the two battling 
cats and hauled Poppyfrost away from Leaftail. 

“That’s enough,” he ordered. “We’re leaving.” 

Poppyfrost stood up, panting. There was a trickle 
of blood coming from one of her ears, and she was 
missing a few tufts of fur, but the scratches down 
Leaftail’s side showed that it had been an equal fight. 

“Is that it?” Berrynose hissed, coming to stand 
beside his mate. “You’re going to let them get away 
with this?” 

“No,” Bramblestar replied. “But I’m going to think 
before I do anything.” 

“Think!” Berrynose echoed, turning to Poppyfrost 
and giving her injured ear a lick. 

Bramblestar ignored the hostile glares from the 
WindClan cats as he led his patrol away from the 
stream. His mind was whirling. 

ThunderClan can survive without this stream 
while the forest is full of rainwater. But what does 


the flooded lake mean for the rest of the Clans? If 
ThunderClan and WindClan are so badly affected, 
have ShadowClan and RiverClan survived at all? 





CHAPTER 10 
de 


S 


Bramblestar returned to the tunnel to find the cats 
spreading out bedding for nests. He could tell at once 
that their optimistic mood had changed to irritation as 
the reality of their homelessness set in. 

“That’s not nearly enough bedding for Briarlight’s 
nest,” Millie complained. 

“Im sorry, but she’ll have to make do for now,” 
Daisy meowed, looking flustered. “We can get more 
later.” 

Millie huffed with annoyance as she took away the 
bundle of moss and leaves. 

Daisy whirled around when she spotted Snowpaw 
and Dewpaw play fighting on top of the pile she was 
trying to distribute, scattering moss everywhere. “What 
do you think you’re doing?” she snapped. “If that’s 
how you treat the bedding, you don’t deserve to have 
any.” 

“Its all wet and yucky anyway,’ Snowpaw 
whined. 

Daisy took a deep breath, as if she was trying to 


hold on to her temper, then decided not to bother. “You 
ungrateful little furball!” she hissed. “If you're so 
miserable here, feel free to go back and sleep in your 
den!” 

Snowpaw blinked up at her. He wasn’t used to 
hearing that tone from Daisy. “Sorry,” he muttered. 

Purdy loomed out of the shadows with the other 
apprentices behind him. “Come on, young ’uns,” he 
rumbled. “Let’s get some moss, an’ you can show me 
how to make a nest. Then we’ll all bed down 
together.” 

“Will you tell us again how you escaped from the 
hollow?” Lilypaw begged. 

“T sure will!” 

“Thank StarClan for Purdy,” Daisy sighed as the 
elder and the apprentices disappeared down the tunnel 
with their share of the bedding. “He’s so good with 
those young cats.” 

“But he wouldn't take any fresh-kill” Blossomfall 
told Bramblestar, coming up to him with a worried 
look. “I did everything I could, short of shoving the 
rabbit down his throat, but it was no use. He told me to 
give it to the warriors instead.” 


“We can’t have that,’ Bramblestar meowed. 
“Thanks for telling me, Blossomfall.” 

There were still some scraps of rabbit on the new 
fresh-kill pile. Picking up the biggest piece, 
Bramblestar padded down the tunnel until he found 
Purdy supervising the apprentices as they made their 
nests. Bramblestar dropped the rabbit at the elder’s 
paws. “Eat.” 

Purdy refused to meet his gaze. “I’m not hungry.” 

“Purdy, I won't stand for any heroics,” 
Bramblestar insisted. “We all need to keep our strength 


33 


up. 

The old cat turned away, gazing down into the 
darkness. “I’m not worth the effort of hunting,” he 
muttered. 

“Never say that!” Bramblestar protested. “The 
warrior code is built on caring for our elders and kits.” 

Purdy turned back to him and met Bramblestar’s 
gaze. His eyes were wide and distressed. “But I never 
served this Clan as a young cat,” he rasped. “And 
now, with Mousefur gone, things aren’t the same.” 

Bramblestar took a deep breath and looked at 
Purdy with his head on one side. “Purdy, you’re being 


unfair. If you hadn’t saved us from the dog the first 
time we met, we might not have reached the sun- 
drown-place, and the Clans might never have made the 
Great Journey. And what do you think would have 
happened in the Great Battle, if you hadn’t saved 
Lionblaze when he was trapped with the dogs? 
ThunderClan owes you more than we can ever repay.” 

Purdy shrugged. “Maybe,” he meowed with a 
flash of his old stubbornness, “but I still think you need 
to worry about the cats who need worrying about.” 
But he did sit down, tucked in his paws, and began to 
eat the rabbit. 

As Bramblestar returned up the tunnel, 
Squirrelflight stepped up to his side. “What's the 
matter? You look as if you bit into a vole and found it 
was crow-food.” 

She listened while Bramblestar told her about his 
conversation with Purdy. “Hmm. . .” she murmured 
when he had finished. “I think I know what the 
problem is. Sandstorm!” She beckoned to her mother, 
who was arranging her nest a tail-length away. 

“What is it?” Sandstorm asked. 

“Purdy needs company,” Squirrelflight mewed. 


“And I don’t just mean those pesky apprentices. I 
know you could run the Clan without us—and so could 
Purdy, for that matter—but could you at least pretend 
that you want to spend more time with him? Don’t 
worry, we”ll still find things for you to do.” 

Sandstorm’s green eyes glimmered. “I'll do what I 
can,” she promised. “But perhaps the answer isn’t 
banishing more cats to the elders’ den, but getting 
Purdy more involved in Clan life. Why not put him in 
charge of bedding distribution along with Daisy?” 

“That’s a great idea!” Bramblestar meowed. He 
headed farther up the tunnel to where Daisy was still 
struggling to share out the bedding she had collected. 
“You look as if you could do with another set of paws,” 
he told her. “Why not get Purdy to help?” 

Daisy’s harassed expression brightened 
immediately. “Oh, I wonder if he would? PI go ask 
him right away.” 

She headed down the tunnel and Bramblestar 
followed a few paces behind. Purdy looked taken 
aback when Daisy made her request. “Well. . . I’ve 
got my paws full keepin’ an eye on these young ’uns,” 
he meowed. “But I reckon if you really need me. . .” 


“T do, Purdy!” Daisy assured him. “I’m so busy I 
don’t know where to start.” 

“Well, then . . . you’d better show me what to do. 
You young cats behave now,” he added to the 
apprentices, “an” I'll tell you the story when I come 
back.” 

Daisy padded back up the tunnel with Purdy at her 
flank, passing Bramblestar on their way to the heap of 
bedding. There was a proud gleam in Purdy’s eyes, 
and Bramblestar guessed there wouldn’t be any more 
fuss about taking his fair share of fresh-kill. 
Sandstorm, you know Purdy so well! 

Hoping for a few moments alone, Bramblestar 
headed out of the tunnel and sharpened his claws on a 
nearby ash tree. They felt all clogged up with dirt and 
leaves, and he experienced a fierce satisfaction in 
seeing them gleaming again. J wish every problem 
could be solved by good fighting skills and a dose 
of courage, he thought, remembering how much 
simpler it had been to rip his claws through the pelt of 
a Dark Forest warrior. Coping with all these 
different cats is more exhausting than going into 
battle! 


Night was beginning to fall by the time 
Bramblestar returned to the tunnel. His Clanmates 
were settling down among the sparse bedding, huddling 
together to share the precious moss. Before he went to 
his own nest, which Squirrelflight had prepared for him, 
Bramblestar set Cloudtail on watch at the entrance and 
Lionblaze farther down the tunnel beyond the last cats. 

Now enemies cant sneak up on us, and neither 
can the flood! 

But the makeshift nests weren’t comfortable; the 
moss and leaves were damp in spite of Daisy’s efforts, 
and there wasn’t enough to go around. Even worse, a 
chilly draft whistled down the tunnel, lifting the cats’ 
fur. 

“Can’t we go deeper into the tunnels?” Spiderleg 
asked Bramblestar. “That wind is freezing my ears 
off.” 

“No, we can’t,’ Bramblestar told him. “We can’t 
risk the river in the cave rising any higher.” 

Spiderleg twitched his tail-tip. He didn’t argue, but 
Bramblestar heard him grumbling to himself as he 
curled up in his nest. 

Eventually Bramblestar fell into an uneasy doze, 


and woke to see gray light flooding through the 
entrance. The Clan was rousing around him, looking 
tired and rumpled. But at least they’re all alive. 

Bramblestar stood up and arched his back in a long 
stretch, trying not to wince as his muscles protested. 
At the entrance he spotted Squirrelflight with a number 
of cats clustered around her. 

“We need hunting patrols,’ she was meowing. 
“Sandstorm, will you lead one? And you, 
Mousewhisker . . . and Brightheart.” 

Bramblestar relaxed from his stretch and stepped 
through the scattered bedding to join her. “We only 
need one border patrol,” he meowed. “Pll lead it.” 

Squirrelflight dipped her head. “Sure, Bramblestar. 
Which cats do you want?” 

Bramblestar thought quickly. “Dovewing, 
Graystripe, and Thornclaw,’ he decided. All 
levelheaded cats who can cope with whatever we 
find. 

Venturing out at the head of his patrol, Bramblestar 
discovered that a light rain was falling, and a stiff 
breeze blew clouds across the sky, carrying the scent 
of the sun-drown-place from the lake. But the worst of 


the storm was over, and above his head he spotted an 
occasional glimpse of blue. 

“We’ll avoid the WindClan border for today,” he 
meowed. “I need to think before we tackle that 
problem. Let’s go the other way and see what we can 
find out about ShadowClan.” 

The patrol scrambled through the drenched forest 
toward the ShadowClan border. The water had risen to 
cover the old Thunderpath that led past the Twoleg 
den, leaving only a short stretch of the ShadowClan 
border still visible. Bramblestar ordered Thornclaw to 
renew the ThunderClan scent markers, but he couldn’t 
detect any fresh ShadowClan scent. 

“They haven’t sent a patrol this way,” he 
remarked. “We’d better cross the border and find out 
what’s going on.” 

“T hope they’re okay,” Dovewing murmured. 

Briefly Bramblestar wondered why the young she- 
cat should be so anxious about their neighbors, then 
dismissed the thought. Im anxious about them 
myself. 

“It all looks so different,’ Dovewing mewed as 
they took their first paw steps into ShadowClan 


territory. “I have no idea which way we should go.” 

“We can’t get lost if we keep to the edge of the 
water,” Graystripe pointed out. “And it’s no use 
thinking we can keep to the safe ground three tail- 
lengths from the lakeshore.” His mouth twisted in wry 
amusement. “The safe ground is right in the middle of 
ShadowClan territory now.” 

Looking around as he led the way along the 
waterline, Bramblestar tried to figure out where they 
were. On one side pine-covered slopes stretched 
upward. He could just make out the walls of the 
Twoleg den among the trees, and he wondered if the 
flood had reached the two hostile kittypets that gave 
ShadowClan so much trouble. On the other side 
stretched the floodwater, the gray surface interrupted 
by the dark pointed tops of pine trees. There was 
something familiar about the way the ground dipped 
toward the flood, and the shape of the bramble thicket 
ahead of them. 

Bramblestar’s belly lurched. We’re above the 
ShadowClan camp! The whole of their hollow is 
filled with water! 

The rest of his patrol had realized it too. 


“So where are the cats?” Dovewing asked, 
working her claws in the soggy ground. “Something 
awful must have happened to them!” 

As if they had heard her speaking, a ShadowClan 
patrol sprang out from behind a cluster of fir trees. 
Scorchfur was in the lead, with Pinenose and 
Ferretclaw just behind him. Ferretclaw’s apprentice, 
Spikepaw, brought up the rear. 

“What are you doing here?” Scorchfur demanded, 
racing up to the ThunderClan patrol. “Get out!” 

Bramblestar dipped his head, keen to avoid a 
hostile confrontation like the one with WindClan the 
day before. “We’re just making sure you survived the 
flood,” he replied. “We got worried when there were 
no fresh scent marks along your border.” 

“ShadowClan doesn’t need ThunderClan to worry 
about us!” Scorchfur hissed. 

“And we’re on our way to set the scent markers 
now,” Pinenose added, her black fur bristling. 

For all their brave words, Bramblestar thought that 
the ShadowClan cats looked scared out of their fur, 
their eyes wide, their gazes darting from side to side as 
if they expected an enemy to pounce on them from out 


of the nearest cover. “I’m sorry about your camp,” he 
mewed, waving his tail toward the swirling water that 
filled the dip. “We”ve lost our home, too.” 

“We don’t want your sympathy,’ Scorchfur 
snarled. “We’re fine. And if you think we’re going to 
tell you where we’re living now, think again!” 

If you’re fine, why do you look so distraught? 
Bramblestar wondered. Aloud he meowed, “I wouldn’t 
dream of asking. Just tell me one thing: Is Tawnypelt 
okay?” 

“And your other Clanmates?” Dovewing put in 
quickly. 

After a moment’s hesitation, Ferretclaw gave a 
reluctant nod. “We’re all okay.” 

“And hedgehogs fly,” Thornclaw muttered from 
behind Bramblestar, who gave him a warning flick of 
his ears. 

“We want to cross your territory to check on 
RiverClan,” Bramblestar meowed. “Do we have your 
permission, as long as we stay inside three fox-lengths 
from the edge of the water?” 

“I suppose so,” Scorchfur growled. “If itll get you 
off our territory sooner.” 


With another respectful dip of his head 
Bramblestar turned to go, waving his tail for his patrol 
to follow. 

“RiverClan won’t thank you for interfering!” 
Ferretclaw called after them. “You’ve got no right to 
act like ThunderClan is here to save us all!” 

Ignoring the parting shot, Bramblestar led his patrol 
farther along the water’s edge to where the Twoleg 
half bridge had once reached out into the lake—now 
covered now by many tail-lengths of water. 

“You know something?” Graystripe meowed, 
padding along beside Bramblestar. “When you asked 
about Tawnypelt, Ferretclaw said that all the cats are 
okay, but none of them ever mentioned Blackstar. If 
you ask me, those are cats who are mourning their 
leader.” 

Bramblestar halted, staring at the gray warrior in 
alarm. “Great StarClan! Do you really think Blackstar 
lost his ninth life in the storm?” Jf a Clan leader has 
died, the rest of us need to know! But he was sure 
that he wouldn’t be welcome if he tried to find the 
place where ShadowClan was sheltering. He would 
have to wait for them to bring him any news. 


Still following the waterline, the patrol emerged 
from the trees some way inland from the half bridge. 
The small wooden Twoleg dens on the lakeshore were 
completely submerged except for the pomted tops of 
their roofs. Because the ground was flatter here, the 
floodwater had reached a long way up the narrow 
Thunderpath. The smooth silver surface stretched 
ahead of them, covering everything that had been there 
before. It was impossible to tell what was happening 
over in RiverClan territory. 

“We need to get some height,’ Bramblestar 
muttered. 

Clawing his way up a pine tree, he edged out along 
a branch until he could see to the farthest end of the 
lake. Where the RiverClan camp had stood between 
two streams, circled by bushes, there was nothing but 
shining gray water. 

Graystripe scrambled up after Bramblestar and 
gazed over his shoulder. “StarClan help them!” he 
breathed. “Are they all dead?” 

Bramblestar didn’t know. Leaping down from the 
tree, he gathered his patrol around him. “There’s no 
sign of RiverClan,” he meowed. “We have to find out 


what happened to them.” 

Thornclaw looked doubtful. “That ShadowClan 
warrior was right. It’s not up to ThunderClan to save 
every cat.” 

Bramblestar met his gaze. “If we can save one 
life, StarClan would want us to try,” he insisted. 
“We’ve been lucky in the storm. RiverClan hasn't.” 

Thornclaw shrugged, though he still didn’t look 
happy. 

Bramblestar began looking for a way to cross the 
flooded Thunderpath. The water was too deep and 
swift moving to swim across close to where the 
RiverClan camp used to be. “We’ll have to head 
farther away from the lake,” he decided. 

“That’s going to bring us close to the Twoleg 
dens,” Graystripe pointed out. “Are we prepared for 
that?” 

“We have to be,” Bramblestar replied. “And if you 
ask me, the Twolegs have more to worry about right 
now than a few cats.” 

The four warriors trekked along the line of the 
Thunderpath, as close as they could get without 
wetting their paws. When the Twoleg nests came into 


sight they were still and silent, with strange Twoleg 
things bobbing about in the water between them. 

“This is weird,” Dovewing mewed, shivering. “But 
at least it doesn’t look like there are any Twolegs 
around.” 

“Let’s find a way across,” Bramblestar announced, 
trying to sound more confident than he felt. The vast 
expanses of water all around them unnerved him, too. 

“Do you think we should go back and get more 
cats?” Graystripe suggested. 

Bramblestar shook his head. “We might not have 
time. We don’t know what we’re going to find in 
RiverClan.” 

“And I’m sure ShadowClan would be so pleased 
to see ThunderClan marching back and forth across 
their territory,” Thornclaw added. 

Bramblestar padded as close as he could get to the 
nearest Twoleg den. The water lapped at the wall, high 
enough that the den must be flooded inside, deeper 
than a cat could walk. The cats clearly weren’t going 
to get across to RiverClan territory without getting wet, 
but could they avoid having to swim all the way? 
Bramblestar spotted a dark line that seemed to 


surround the nest just below the surface of the water. 
He realized that it must be a fence stretching around 
the square of grass and flowers, like the fences on the 
border with the old forest. 

“Look,” he mewed, pointing with his tail. “If we 
can reach that, we can walk along the top and get as 
far as the Thunderpath.” 

“And then?” Thornclaw meowed. 

“Swim across, and hope there’s another fence on 
the other side.” Bramblestar looked at his patrol, 
knowing he was leading them into danger. What if 1 
lose one of them? But he also knew that he couldn’t 
turn around and go back to ThunderClan without 
finding out what had happened to the cats of 
RiverClan. 

Not giving himself time to change his mind, 
Bramblestar waded into the water, then swam until he 
reached the barrier. As he had hoped, it was a wooden 
fence. He managed to claw his way up it; when he 
stood on the top, the water reached halfway up his 
legs. 

“It's okay!” he called, waving his tail for the others 
to join him. But the top of the fence was narrow, and 


with the water lapping and sucking at his legs, it was 
hard to keep his balance. The fence shuddered as the 
next cat reached it; Bramblestar stifled a screech of 
shock as his hind paws slipped, and only just stopped 
himself from sliding back into the flood. 

Behind him he heard Thornclaw hiss, “Fox dung!” 
but when Bramblestar looked back he realized that the 
tabby warrior was still upright on the fence, and the 
other cats were managing to follow him. The water 
distorted Bramblestar’s view of the fence, but he 
figured out a way of putting his paws down in a 
straight line while he balanced with his tail. Step by 
step he made his way to the other end of the fence, 
overlooking the submerged Thunderpath. 

When he reached it, he was puzzled by the sight of 
a flat red object under the water a mouse-length below 
where he was standing. Examining it more closely, he 
realized what it was. 

“There’s a drowned monster here!” he exclaimed. 

Thornclaw, who was just behind him, peered over 
his shoulder. “Creepy!” he commented. 

Bramblestar looked down at the monster. If they 
jumped onto it, they could be several paw steps closer 


to RiverClan before they had to swim. But what if it 
wakes up? He studied the edges of the top of the 
monster carefully. There were no air bubbles, no signs 
of movement, nothing to suggest that it was still alive. 

“Come on,” he called to the others. “This way!” 

“Are you mouse-brained?” Thornclaw asked. 
“Jump on top of a monster?” 

“It's underwater, and I’m sure monsters can’t 
swim like fishes,’ Bramblestar pointed out. Without 
giving Thornclaw time to argue, he launched himself 
onto the top of the monster. As he splashed down, the 
hard surface lurched beneath his paws, and panic 
stabbed through him as he fought for balance. 

It’s alive! 

But then the rocking motion steadied. Bramblestar 
stood still for a moment while his heart stopped 
thumping. “It’s fine,” he meowed breathlessly. “Follow 
me.” 

Thornclaw, Dovewing, and Graystripe jumped onto 
the monster behind him, gasping as the creature 
swayed beneath their paws. It was impossible to sink 
in their claws and get a secure grip, so Bramblestar 
started moving as soon as Graystripe reached them, 


sliding his feet one by one across the slippery surface. 

At the far end of the monster, it was clear they 
would have to swim across the deep water that 
covered the Thunderpath. But Bramblestar could just 
make out another fence leading away on the other 
side, past a Twoleg den toward the fields beyond 
RiverClan’s territory. 

“Aim for that fence over there,’ he meowed, 
pointing with his tail. “Swim!” 

“Oh, StarClan,” Dovewing muttered, but she 
launched herself into the water and started paddling 
strongly. 

Bramblestar reached the fence first and helped his 
Clanmates clamber onto it, water streaming from their 
pelts. The Twoleg dens here were joined together in a 
long line. The fence where they were clinging ran past 
the dens at one end, and by following it they could 
make their way around the back. Bramblestar led the 
way, finding it easier now to push his legs through the 
water and keep his footing on the narrow strip of 
submerged wood. 

The cats sploshed their way past the Twoleg dens 
and stopped at the edge of the enclosed grass, looking 


out over a field to the place where RiverClan had once 
lived—but now it was just a stretch of shining water, 
with the top of a bush poking up here and there. 

“It’s gone!” Thornclaw whispered. “Their whole 
territory is underwater!” 

“There’s no way they could survive that much 
flooding,” Graystripe meowed. 

“Wait!” Dovewing mewed. “You were at the 
Gathering, weren’t you? I wasn’t there, but Ivypool 
told me about it. Didn’t Mistystar say they’d already 
moved their dens away from the edge of the lake? She 
didn’t say where, but is it possible they were far 
enough away to escape the flood?” 

Bramblestar nodded. “You could be right. We have 
to find out!” 

He looked down into the field. Long strands of 
grass drifted on top of the water, like weeds in a 
stream. Bramblestar was pretty sure the cats wouldn’t 
be too far out of their depth now. The land had risen up 
slightly since the Thunderpath, and continued to rise 
until he could see a ridge of turf poking above the flood 
near the center of the field. He took a deep breath and 
leaped off the fence. 


There was a mighty splash as he landed, but to his 
relief his paws struck a firm bed of grass, and when he 
straightened up the water only reached up to his belly 
fur. Without waiting for an order, the other cats jumped 
down beside him. 

“Great StarClan!” Graystripe exclaimed. “It’s good 
to have my paws on the ground again.” 

Bramblestar agreed, though it was still 
uncomfortable to wade through the flood and feel their 
paws sinking into sodden grass. He wasn’t looking 
forward to licking himself clean after this was over. 

A stream ran along the far side of the field, though 
it had spilled over its banks, covering everything with a 
gray sheen. Bramblestar headed for the ridge that was 
clear of the flood. The water rapidly grew shallower 
until they were wading out onto the grass with droplets 
streaming from their fur. 

“At last!” Graystripe exclaimed. “I thought I was 
turning into a fish.” 

Thornclaw snorted. “You realize we’ve got to go 
through all this again on the way back? You’ve still got 
a chance to grow fins and scales.” 

Farther up the ridge, as it curved toward the far 


corner of the field, there was a clump of low, leafless 
bushes. Bramblestar spotted a flash of movement 
underneath. He tensed, and stopped to taste the air. 
Beneath the now-familiar tang of the sun-drown-place, 
he thought he could detect RiverClan scent. Signaling 
with his tail for his patrol to keep close to him, 
Bramblestar crept forward. As they approached, two 
RiverClan cats rushed out of the thicket and halted in 
front of the ThunderClan patrol with fur bristling and 
eyes glaring. Bramblestar recognized the Clan deputy, 
Reedwhisker, and the black she-cat Shimmerpett. 

“Stop!” Reedwhisker growled. “What are—” He 
broke off, relaxing. “Oh, it’s you! We thought you were 
rogues.” 

“Thank StarClan, you survived!” Dovewing 
gasped. 

“Only just,” Shimmerpelt mewed with a shudder. 

Now that he was closer, Bramblestar realized the 
bushes were heaving with mews and scuffling sounds. 
The scent of RiverClan was much stronger here. 

“TI tell Mistystar you're here,” Reedwhisker 
meowed, vanishing into the brambles. 

A moment later the RiverClan leader emerged, 


with Mothwing, the RiverClan medicine cat, just behind 
her. In spite of everything, Mistystar looked calm and 
sleek, her blue-gray fur neatly groomed. 

She dipped her head. “Greetings, Bramblestar. It’s 
good to see you. You must have had a struggle to get 
here.” 

“It wasn’t easy,” Bramblestar agreed. “But we 
were worried about you. Is RiverClan safe?” 

“RiverClan is fine,” Mistystar replied with a slight 
edge to her voice. “We knew the lake was rising, so 
when it reached our new dens we left and kept going 
until the water stopped chasing us.” Her voice shook a 
little, and it was clear that she and all her cats had 
been more terrified than she wanted ThunderClan to 
know. 

“And Petalfur’s kits are okay?” Bramblestar 
pressed. 

“Of course. Three warriors carried them. How are 
things in ThunderClan?” Mistystar asked. 

“Not good,” Bramblestar told her. “The hollow 
flooded, but all of us survived, and we’ve found a safe 
place to stay for now.” 

Perhaps it was Bramblestar’s admission that 


ThunderClan had lost their home too, but Mistystar 
seemed to soften. She padded forward to stand beside 
Bramblestar, and together the two leaders looked out 
across the flooded landscape. 

“I wonder if things will ever return to how they 
were,” Miststar murmured. “The Great Battle, and 
now this . . . Doesn't StarClan have the power to 
protect us anymore?” 

“We can protect ourselves,” Bramblestar insisted. 
“The water won’t stay like this forever.” 

“But what if it does?” 

Bramblestar turned to face Mistystar. “Then we 
will all make new homes. We did it before; we can do 
it again.” 

He saw warmth in her blue eyes. “Thank you for 
coming,” she purred. “It helps to know that we’re not 
suffering alone.” 

Bramblestar touched his muzzle to the tip of 
Mistystar’s ear. “None of the Clans are alone,” he 
murmured. “Good luck, and may StarClan light your 
path.” 

The RiverClan cats said good-bye with more 
friendliness than before, and Bramblestar led his patrol 


back the way they had come. Theres no way of 
going through the marshes to reach WindClan 
territory. Its just floodwater as far as I can see. 

They waded through the flooded field and with an 
effort, jumped back onto the fence. The water seemed 
even colder and murkier than before, whipped into 
splashy little waves by the breeze. None of the cats 
spoke; they just trudged along the submerged fence in 
concentrated silence. 

Reaching the flooded Thunderpath, Bramblestar 
was bracing himself to swim for the drowned monster 
when a shriek split the air. 

“Help! Oh, please help me!” 





CHAPTER 11 
de 


Bramblestar froze. Behind him, his Clanmates 
bristled. 

“What's that?” Thornclaw spat. 

“It's coming from over there,” Dovewing mewed, 
pointing with her tail farther up the flooded 
Thunderpath. At Bramblestar’s startled look she hissed 
under her breath, “I can hear the same as you! I’m not 
deaf!” 

“Its a she-cat, and she sounds terrified.” 
Graystripe was staring in the direction of the sound. 
“We have to go help her.” 

“I don’t know. . . .” Bramblestar stalled, anxiety 
rising inside him like a flood. “With all this water, it 
could be dangerous.” He knew that he had to put his 
Clanmates’ safety above rescuing a strange cat. 

“We should at least see if we can spot the cat,” 
Dovewing suggested. Her fur was fluffed up with 
anxiety and her blue eyes were huge. 

The Twoleg fence where they were standing led 
right up to the wall of the den. Ivy covered the den 


wall. 

“If we climb that,” Graystripe meowed, angling his 
ears toward the densely growing green leaves, “we 
should get a better view.” 

Thornclaw heaved a sigh. “You mean, go right up 
to a Twoleg den that might be full of Twolegs, and risk 
falling into the flood, all for a cat we haven’t even set 
eyes on?” 

Graystripe looked at his Clanmate with a hint of 
scorn. “You could show a little compassion,” he 
growled. 

The fur on Thornclaw’s neck began to rise, and 
Bramblestar meowed quickly, “We’ll climb the ivy and 
see if we can find the cat, without putting ourselves in 
unnecessary danger. Come on.” 

He waded along the top of the fence until he could 
claw his way up the ivy. His belly churned as 
Thornclaw’s words echoed in his mind. The golden- 
brown warrior was right. We dont know for sure that 
all the Twolegs have gone. But Twolegs were noisy 
creatures, and now their surroundings were so quiet 
that Bramblestar could hear every lap and gurgle of 
the water, every wail from the she-cat in trouble. 


“Help! Is anyone there?” 

Saving his breath for the climb, Bramblestar 
reached the upper level of the Twoleg den and 
scrambled along the ivy until he reached the corner. 
The cat’s cries were even louder here. Bramblestar 
looked down and almost lost his grip in astonishment. 
Just around a bend in the flooded Thunderpath, a small 
white cat with black patches on her ears and belly was 
crouching in a round, hollow object made of wood. The 
object bobbed in the water, stuck in the branches of a 
submerged bush. 

“Hi! Up here!” Bramblestar called. 

The cat spun around, making her little sanctuary 
rock so wildly that it almost tipped over. “You found 
me!” she gasped, tipping back her head to look up. 
“Please help! Did you get left behind, too?” 

Bramblestar opened his jaws to reply, but before 
he could speak, the she-cat continued in a rush. “When 
the lake flooded, my housefolk took Brandy and Polly, 
but they couldn’t find me.” She glanced down for a 
moment, and her voice grew quieter. “I was asleep 
under their bed. I didn’t hear them calling until it was 
too late.” With a shake, she lifted her head again. 


“Then the water started coming into the house so fast! 
I climbed into this tub to keep dry. I didn’t realize it 
would float away!” 

“Calm down,” Bramblestar meowed when the she- 
cat paused for breath. “We’ll figure out a way to get to 
you.” 

Now that he had found the cat, there was no way 
he could leave her floating helplessly in the flood. But 
she was a long way out and surrounded by deep water. 
Can we swim that far? Bramblestar wondered. And 
if we do reach her, how do we get her to safety? 

‘Tve got an idea,” Thornclaw mewed, with a light 
touch of his tail on his leader’s shoulder. 

“Okay, spit it out,” Bramblestar told him, tensing as 
he felt the ivy stem where he was clinging start to tear 
away from the wall of the den. “We can’t stay here.” 

“See those little ledges on the den walls?” 
Thornclaw nodded toward them. “We might be able to 
use them to cross from den to den.” 

“Those are windowsills,’ Graystripe meowed 
unexpectedly. 

Every cat stared at him. “Huh?” Thornclaw 
grunted. 


“Don’t forget that I once lived in a Twoleg den,” 
Graystripe told them. “After I was captured when the 
Twolegs were cutting down the old forest. Twolegs 
sleep in nests on this upper level,” he went on. “These 
gaps in the wall are called windows. The Twolegs look 
through them, but they don’t go in and out of them.” 

“So what are they for?” Dovewing asked. 

“Well, they let light into the den.” 

“And I expect the Twolegs use them to watch for 
predators,” Thornclaw added. “That’s a pretty neat 
idea, for Twolegs.” 

Bramblestar cleared his throat. “If you’ve all 
finished discussing Twoleg dens,” he mewed, “we 
have a cat to rescue. Thornclaw,” he continued, “I 
think your idea could work, but it’s going to be tricky. 
Maybe you and I should try it alone.” 

“No way!” Dovewing exclaimed. 

Graystripe lashed his tail. “Forget it, Bramblestar. 
We’re coming with you.” 

Bramblestar was warmed by the loyalty of his 
Clanmates. “Okay,” he purred. “But for StarClan’s 
sake, be careful.” 

Taking the lead, he clambered through the ivy until 


he reached the first windowsill. He pulled himself onto 
it, gritting his teeth; even though the windowsill was 
wider than a tree branch, it was angled slightly 
downward, so he was afraid he was going to slip. He 
dug his claws hard into the wood and crept forward 
with his heart thudding. 

At the end of the windowsill he had to leap across 
a gap of bare red stone to reach the next one. Its just 
like chasing a squirrel in the trees, he told himself, 
bunching his muscles and launching himself into the air. 
He landed awkwardly, one hind paw waving in the air, 
and took a moment to steady himself. 

A glance over his shoulder told himself that the 
others were following safely. Confidence began to 
seep back into his paws, only to drain away again 
when he saw that the gap between this windowsill and 
the next was much wider. 

Thats because the next one belongs to the next 
den, Bramblestar realized. But how else can we 
reach it? It looks like its too far to leap, but we 
have to try. 

He pushed off with all his strength, reaching out 
with his forepaws. His belly hit the windowsill, and he 


had to scrabble frantically with his hind paws to pull 
himself up. And we have to keep on doing this, he 
thought with a tremor of fear in his belly. Surely one 
of us will fall? But his Clanmates followed him 
without any mishaps, even managing to speed up as 
they got used to the hazards. 

When Bramblestar reached the fourth windowsill 
he was able to look down and get a clearer view of the 
cat in the tub. Her blue eyes stared up at him, filled 
with terror. 

“Please hurry!” she begged. “There’s water 
coming into the tub. I’m getting wetter!” 

“We’re coming!” Bramblestar called as he readied 
himself for the next jump. 

“Bramblestar, stop!” Graystripe yowled. 

Bramblestar froze. “What's the matter?” 

“Look at the next windowsill. Can’t you see that 
the wood is rotten? It won’t bear our weight.” 

Following the gray warrior’s gaze, Bramblestar 
saw that the end of the windowsill was jagged and 
loose as if it was crumbling away. “Just like a rotten 
branch . . .” he murmured. “So what do we do now?” 
he asked, not expecting an answer. 


“We’ll have to go into the den and find a way out 
on the lower level,” Graystripe meowed. 

Thornclaw flattened his ears. “I’m not setting paw 
in there!” he exclaimed. “Have you got bees in your 
brain?” 

Dovewing's whiskers flickered. “Isn't there 
another way?” 

Graystripe shook his head. “We don’t have a 
choice if we want to help the she-cat,” he insisted, 
keeping his voice low. 

The she-cat was already beginning to panic. 
“What’s happening?” she demanded. “Why have you 
stopped?” 

Bramblestar glanced down at her. “It’s okay!” he 
called. 

But he wasn’t sure that was true. The window 
where he and his Clanmates were crouching was 
blocked by hard, transparent stuff, and he couldn’t see 
any way of getting past it. He pressed it with one paw, 
then butted his head against it, but it held fast. 

“Are you trying to get in?” the she-cat asked. “It’s 
easy! My friend Parsnip lives there, and the windows 
open if you press them at the top.” 


Bramblestar glanced at Graystripe. “Worth a try, I 
suppose.” 

Stretching his forepaws as high as they would go, 
he thrust at the slippery, transparent window. The 
bottom swung out toward him, catching him in the 
belly, and he let out a startled yowl as he felt his hind 
paws slipping. Dovewing sank her teeth into his scruff, 
steadying him until he could recover his balance. 

“Thanks!” he gasped. Peering through the gap that 
had opened up at the bottom of the window, he added, 
“Graystripe, you’d better lead the way.” 

The gray warrior crawled through the gap, 
flattening his body as if he were creeping up on prey. 
There was another windowsill inside the nest; 
Graystripe hesitated there for a moment, then jumped 
down. Dovewing followed him, but Thornclaw took a 
pace back, his lips curling as if he had just smelled 
crow-food. 

“I don’t like it,” he muttered. 

“I'm not asking you to like it,” Bramblestar 
mewed. 

Thornclaw puffed out his breath. “I can’t believe 
I’m doing this.” 


While his Clanmate was scrambling through the 
gap, Bramblestar looked back and called out to the 
she-cat in the tub. “We’ll be with you in a few 
heartbeats!” 

Inside the den, the scent of Twolegs wreathed 
around Bramblestar, and every hair on his pelt stood on 
end. All his instincts were telling him to run, but there 
was nowhere to run to. Solid white walls loomed all 
around, trapping him. Then he realized that all the 
scents were stale, and he managed to relax a little. 

What a lot of stuff the Twolegs have in their 
dens! he thought as he glanced around. The floor was 
covered in a layer of dense green tufts that 
Bramblestar thought was grass, until he rubbed his 
paws against it and realized it was some kind of 
Twoleg pelt. More soft pelts lay scattered on top of it, 
and on top of a large, flat object that stood against one 
wall. There were big structures made out of wood, 
with hard, straight lines, not the soft contours of real 
trees. 

“This is a bedroom,’ Graystripe announced. 
Meeting blank stares from the other three cats, he 
added, “The nest where the Twolegs sleep.” 


“Fascinating,” Thornclaw muttered. 

“Yes. Graystripe, can we just keep going?” 
Bramblestar meowed. 

Graystripe nodded and led the way toward a gap in 
the den wall. As Bramblestar padded after him he 
realized how soft the pelts were against his paws. This 
would be a good place for cats to sleep too, he 
thought, provided there weren t any Twolegs. 

Following Graystripe out of the sleeping den, 
Bramblestar and his Clanmates slipped silently 
alongside the wall until they reached an uneven slope 
leading downward. 

“This reminds me of the abandoned Twoleg den,” 
Bramblestar remarked. 

“They call it stairs,’ Graystripe informed him. 

“You never told us any of this before,’ Dovewing 
mewed as they began to descend the slope. “It’s really 
interesting.” 

Graystripe snorted. “We’re Clan cats, not 
kittypets,” he reminded her. “How they live has nothing 
to do with us.” 

Water was lapping at the bottom of the slope, and 
Bramblestar waved his tail for Graystripe to step back 


and let him go ahead. There were more gaps in the 
den walls, and at first he didn’t know which one would 
lead to the outside. Then he sensed a flow of cooler air 
coming from one of the gaps, and heard the shriek of 
the she-cat from that direction. “Where have you 
gone?” 

Cautiously Bramblestar stepped down into the 
water, wincing at the cold, wet touch on his fur. At first 
it was shallow enough to wade, but as he stepped 
through the gap the ground suddenly gave way beneath 
his paws, and he found himself floundering, thrashing 
his paws until he managed to climb onto something 
solid. 

“There's another step just there, I think,” 
Graystripe mewed helpfully. 

“Whatever.” Bramblestar gave his pelt a disgusted 
shake. “Jump from the top to this . . . thing Pm 
standing on,” he instructed. 

“It's a chair,” Graystripe told him. “And that big, 
flat thing over there is a table. If you jump up there, 
Bramblestar, there”1l be room for the next cat.” 

“Good idea,” Bramblestar responded. “Thank 
StarClan you know a bit about these Twoleg places, 


Graystripe.” 

“TI still be glad to get out of here,” the gray 
warrior grumbled. 

Soon all four cats were standing on the table. More 
chairs were scattered around, as if the flood had 
carried them from their proper places. One of them 
was wedged by the opening that led outside, holding 
back the piece of wood that the Twolegs had used to 
block the gap. 

Two jumps brought Bramblestar to this chair, and 
at last he was able to see outside. A fence ran around 
the garden and joined onto the den not far from where 
Bramblestar was standing. A few fox-lengths away a 
monster was crouching, with water lapping halfway up 
its shiny blue sides. Between Bramblestar and the 
monster was the tub, floating very low in the water 
now. The black-and-white she-cat was peering 
anxiously over the side. 

“Please hurry!” she wailed. “The tub is sinking!” 

Bramblestar turned to his Clanmates. “We’ll have 
to leap from here to the fence,” he told them. “It's an 
awkward angle, but we should be able to manage it.” 

“How are we going to get the cat out of there?” 


Dovewing asked as she landed neatly on the chair 
beside him. 

Bramblestar wasn’t sure. Maybe the tub will 
bump up against the fence, and she can climb out 
of it. “Just go,” he meowed. 

Dovewing obeyed, reaching the fence with 
Graystripe and Thornclaw just behind her. But when 
Bramblestar tried to follow he misjudged the jump 
because he was trying to avoid his Clanmates, who 
were crowded together along the fence-top. His claws 
raked the wood of the fence, but he couldn’t get a grip 
on it. A heartbeat later he plunged into icy water. His 
yowl of alarm was cut off as the flood closed over his 
head. 

Bramblestar flailed his legs desperately, feeling the 
cold sink deep into his pelt. His chest ached with the 
need to breathe. It seemed like a whole season before 
his head broke the surface. Gasping for air, he glanced 
around, but at first he could see nothing but the tossing 
water. 

“Over here!” the kittypet yowled. “Hurry!” 

Bramblestar splashed in a circle until he caught 
sight of the tub, only a few tail-lengths away from him. 


It had floated away from the fence. Great StarClan! 1 
hope I can move it! 

Struggling to keep his head above the surface, 
Bramblestar thrashed his way over to the tub and 
started to push. It was sluggish, hard to move, because 
by now most of it was under the water. The black-and- 
white she-cat propped her forepaws on the rim, her 
terrified gaze fixed on Bramblestar. He didn’t have 
enough breath or strength to reassure her. 

The tub was closer to the monster than the fence, 
so Bramblestar headed that way. At last he felt the tub 
bump gently against the shiny blue side. “Climb out!” 
he choked. 

The she-cat floundered through the water that by 
now was filling the tub, and clawed her way onto the 
top of the monster. Bramblestar followed her, managed 
to give her a boost upward, then hauled himself to 
safety and flopped down on the monster’s back. 
Hearing a gurgle from below, he looked down to see 
the tub vanish under the surface of the water. The she- 
cat was watching it too. 

“I could have been in that!” she gasped. “You 
saved me!” 


“Not exactly,” Bramblestar grunted, waving his tail 
to indicate the silver water all around them. 

“But you did!” the she-cat insisted. “Thank you! 
My name’s Minty. What’s yours?” 

“I’m Bramblestar.” He angled his ears toward the 
other cats, who were approaching along the fence. 
“Those are Graystripe, Dovewing, and Thornclaw.” 

“What weird names!” Minty mewed, wrinkling her 
nose. 

Bramblestar didn’t comment. When his Clanmates 
Jumped down onto the monster’s back, he stood up and 
shook the water from his pelt. “What do we do with 
this kittypet now?” he asked quietly. 

“I don't see why we have to do anything,” 
Thornclaw meowed. “We’ve saved her life. What she 
does next is up to her.” 

“You can’t leave me here!” Minty wailed. “My 
housefolk and my littermates have gone. What will I 
eat?” 

Fish, with all this water, Bramblestar was 
strongly tempted to answer, but he stopped himself. It’s 
not her fault she’s so helpless. 

“We can’t leave her here,” Dovewing whispered. 


“She'll starve or freeze. She’s a kittypet; they can’t 
look after themselves.” 

“Can I come home with you?” Minty begged, 
fixing a wide-eyed blue gaze on Bramblestar. “Where 
do your housefolk live? Did their houses escape the 
flood?” 

Bramblestar exchanged a glance with Graystripe. 
“We don’t live with Twolegs,” he explained. “We’re 
wild cats, from the Clans by the lake.” 

Minty’s eyes stretched even wider. “Wow, I’ve 
heard of them!” she exclaimed. “I mean, you. But 
you’re supposed to be dangerous. You eat bones and 
kill trespassers!” 

Bramblestar sighed. “We really need to stop these 
rumors. We won’t eat you, we promise,” he continued. 
“We don’t eat cats. Just mice and birds and squirrels, 
just like you.” 

Minty uttered a little shriek and looked as if she 
was going to pass out. “I don’t eat those!” She gave 
her tail a flick. “I don’t think I want to come with you 
after all.” 

Thornclaw shrugged, his whiskers twitching. 
“Okay. Stay put. Your choice.” 


Minty hesitated. “Why don’t you stay here?” she 
suggested after a moment. “The house is really 
comfortable, and there must be some of my food in the 
kitchen.” 

“No, that’s impossible,’ Bramblestar meowed. 
“Our Clanmates need us.” 

“There are more of you?” Minty squealed. Her tail 
drooped. “I don’t know where my housefolk keep my 
food. It’s probably ruined by the water anyway.” She 
put her head on one side, thinking, then announced, 
“Okay, Pll come with you.” 

“You're not doing us any favors,’ Dovewing 
muttered. “Don’t act like we’re begging you to come.” 

If Minty heard the comment, she didn’t react to it. 
She stared at Bramblestar. “You promise the other cats 
won’t eat me?” 

“Oh, no,” meowed Thornclaw. “There’s not 
enough meat on you to be a decent meal.” 

Minty squeaked, and Bramblestar tapped 
Thornclaw with his tail. “Don’t torment her. Minty, you 
won’t be eaten. But we’ve got a long way to go, so 
you need to be prepared for a difficult journey.” 

Minty shrugged. “It won’t be difficult for me. I go 


outside every day.” 

Bramblestar blinked. Thats not exactly forest 
training, but I guess it will have to do. He turned to 
the fence. “Leap up there,” he encouraged Minty, “and 
we'll follow.” 

Minty peered up at the fence. “It’s awfully high,” 
she mewed. 

“For StarClan’s sake!” Thornclaw spat. “Have you 
never climbed a fence before?” 

“Of course I have!” Minty retorted, stung. “It’s 
just that . . . Well, I used to climb up by the creeper 
there.” She pointed with her tail over to the other side 
of the enclosed space, where a plant with thick, glossy 
leaves was growing up the fence. 

“Well, you can swim over to the creeper, or jump 
up here,” Dovewing told her. 

Minty blinked uncertamly. “You'll help me, won't 
you?” she asked Bramblestar. 

“We'll all help” Bramblestar promised. 
“Dovewing, you hop onto the fence and grab Minty 
when she jumps.” 

“Okay.” Dovewing bunched her hindquarters and 
propelled herself onto the fence in a graceful bound. 


Bramblestar suspected she was showing off. 

“Come on,” he mewed to Minty. “You can stand 
on me to get a bit nearer if you like.” He crouched at 
the side of the monster nearest the fence and winced 
as the kittypet dug her claws into his back to heave 
herself onto his shoulders. Bramblestar forced himself 
to take her weight and stand straight, lifting her as high 
as he could. “Now jump!” 

He felt Minty’s paws scuffling for balance, then a 
vigorous shove as she sprang upward. Shaking his pelt, 
he looked up to see her clawing frantically at the wood, 
while Dovewing leaned down and grabbed her by the 
scruff. A moment later she stood beside Dovewing on 
the fence. 

“Great,” Thornclaw growled. “Now can we get 
moving?” 

Bramblestar let Graystripe lead the way along the 
fence-top while he brought up the rear, just behind 
Minty. He wanted to be close enough to help her if she 
slipped. But to Bramblestar’s surprise she trotted along 
more confidently than the Clan cats, not at all fazed by 
the narrowness of the fence. Of course, she must 
have done this often, visiting her friends in the 


other dens. 

When they reached the corner of the fence and 
Graystripe turned toward the Thunderpath, Minty 
halted and stared at the vast stretch of flooded ground. 
“There’s so much water!” she exclaimed. “Parsnip 
and his housefolk are gone, and my housefolk, and all 
the housefolk and the cats! I’m the only one left!” She 
sounded lost and small, as if she hadn’t realized the 
extent of the disaster until now. 

Graystripe glanced over his shoulder at her. “Tt’ll 
be okay,” he comforted her. “They’ll come back and 
look for you when the flood goes down.” 

Minty nodded, but Bramblestar wasn’t sure 
whether she believed him. 

Finally they arrived at the end of the fence where 
they had first heard Minty’s cries, opposite the 
drowned monster on the Thunderpath. Here the water 
still reached halfway up their legs, and Minty was 
starting to look scared again. 

“We can’t go any farther,” she mewed. 

“Yes, it’s fine,” Bramblestar told her. “We have to 
swim over to where you can see that drowned 
monster, then get onto the fence, and that takes us to 


dry ground.” 
Minty turned to him with her blue eyes wider than 


ever. “Swim?” 

Thornclaw let out a hiss of annoyance. “Don’t tell 
me you can’t swim!” 

“I don’t know,” Minty replied. “I’ve never tried.” 

Bramblestar took a deep breath. “Graystripe, you 
go first. Dovewing, swim on that side of Minty, and I’ ll 
swim on this side. Thornclaw, follow us. Minty, I 
promise we’ll get you across, okay?” 

“Okay... I guess.” 

Graystripe launched himself into the water, 
powering toward the monster with strong sweeps of 
his paws. Minty clung to the fence until Dovewing 
gave her a shove. She plopped into the water with a 
startled squeak. With Bramblestar on one side and 
Dovewing on the other, the kittypet splashed furiously, 
wasting far too much effort, but somehow she 
managed to propel herself forward. 

“Hey, I can swi—” she squealed. The last word 
was cut off as water slopped into her mouth. She 
started spluttering, and Bramblestar steadied her with a 
shoulder underneath her until she caught her breath. 


Bramblestar knew that he was getting tired, and 
guessed that his Clanmates felt the same. The swim to 
the drowned monster seemed twice as far as it had on 
the way out. If we hadnt stopped to help Minty, 
we’d be back on our own territory by now. He was 
exhausted by the time they stood safely on 
ShadowClan territory. It was an effort to make his 
paws move along the waterline, beside the drowned 
pines. 

“Is this where you live?” Minty asked, and added 
politely, “It’s ...er... very nice.” 

“No, this is where ShadowClan lives,” Graystripe 
told her. “We’re ThunderClan.” He waved his tail 
toward the other side of the lake. “We live over there.” 

“What?” Minty screeched. “I can’t walk that far! 
My legs will fall off!” 

Bramblestar looked at her. “You’d better hang on 
to them,” he teased her. “Or Thornclaw might find he 
has a taste for kittypets after all.” 

Minty let out a yelp and raced ahead, glancing 
back over her shoulder at Thornclaw with a look of 
terror in her eyes. 

“What did you say that for?” Thornclaw looked 


bemused. “When did I ever eat kittypets?” 

“Just show your fangs,’ Dovewing muttered. “At 
least she’s moving!” 

Minty waited for them to catch up, though she 
stayed as far from Thornclaw as possible, and padded 
beside the Clan cats as they headed toward the open 
stretch of grass. 

“How many cats live by the lake?” she asked. “Do 
you all live together? And do you really eat mice and 
squirrels and yucky stuff like that?” 

“I don’t know exactly how many cats there are,” 
Bramblestar replied. “Lots. Each Clan has its own 
camp, where they live together. And yes, we catch our 
own prey and eat it. You will too, while you’re staying 
with us.” 

Minty shuddered. “Never!” 

Bramblestar exchanged a glance with Thornclaw, 
guessing that the golden-brown warrior was thinking 
the same thing. Wait until she gets hungry! 

“It’s really dark under these trees, isn’t it?” Minty 
chattered on. “I wouldn’t like living here. Is it dark in 
your territory, too?” 

Graystripe shook his head. “ThunderClan territory 


is more open than this.” 

“I can’t wait to see it!” Minty mewed with an 
excited little skip. “Ooh, look, a squirrel! Are you going 
to catch it?” 

“No,” Bramblestar told her. “We’re allowed to 
cross ShadowClan territory, but not to take prey here. 
The ShadowClan cats would be furious.” 

Minty watched the squirrel dart across the gap 
between two pines and scramble up into the branches. 
“Will we meet any ShadowClan cats?” she asked. “I 
wish we could. It’d be fun!” 

Dovewing rolled her eyes. “Trust me, it wouldn’t. 
Why don’t you save your breath for walking?” 

Minty gave her an injured look, but said nothing 
more. 

Bramblestar was thankful that so far they hadn’t 
met any ShadowClan patrols. His pelt was prickling 
with apprehension at the thought of bringing a kittypet 
into his Clan. ThunderClan doesnt need more cats. 
It needs to strengthen and protect the ones it has. 

But Bramblestar couldn’t have left Minty to starve. 
He padded over to the kittypet, who was nervously 
eyeing a fallen tree in her path. 


“Just hop on top of it,” he meowed, “and then jump 
down on the other side. It’s not that high.” 

He leaped up to show her, and grabbed her to help 
her up the last couple of mouse-lengths as her hind 
paws scuffled against the trunk. 

I just hope my Clanmates understand why I’ve 
brought a stranger home with me. 

All four ThunderClan cats let out a sigh of relief as 
they crossed the border into ThunderClan territory. 
Their scent marks were faint against the smell of mud 
and water, but there were no fresh ShadowClan 
scents. Following the edge of the flood, Thornclaw led 
them up the slope until they were just below the ridge. 
It was hard going, pushing through the soaking 
undergrowth on paws that were tired and heavy as 
stone. 

“We’re on ThunderClan territory now,” Graystripe 
told Minty, “and we’re just going past the flooded 
camp.” He veered down the slope and vanished into a 
clump of thorns. 

Bramblestar followed, nodding to Minty. “Come on, 
you can see where our home used to be.” 

He waited for her to join him at the edge of the 


cliff. Bramblestar felt his heart beat faster as he stared 
into the hollow. The sheer gray cliffs now encircled 
nothing but a pool of black, swirling water. He pictured 
the dens, the fresh-kill pile, the half stump where the 
apprentices liked to play. Were they all still there, under 
the water? 

Or had every trace of ThunderClan been washed 
away? 





CHAPTER 12 
de 


v 


“Its even more flooded than my home!” Minty 
exclaimed. “Where do you live now?” 

“Yov’ll see,” Bramblestar told her. “It’s this way.” 
He turned away from the cliff, feeling a stab of grief 
for the lost camp, and forced his way back through the 
thorns. It was a steep climb to the tunnel, and he heard 
Minty puffing behind him, though to her credit she 
didn’t complain. Bramblestar wondered if she realized 
he and the others had traveled twice this distance in 
one day. 

Several cats were outside the tunnel entrance. 
Daisy, Purdy, and Squirrelflight were spreading out 
bundles of wet moss and bracken to dry in the weak 
sun. A little farther off, the three younger apprentices 
and their mentors were watching closely while Ivypool 
and Spiderleg demonstrated a battle move. 

As Bramblestar and his patrol trekked up the last 
few fox-lengths of the slope, every cat looked up. 

Squirrelflight leaped to her paws. “Thank StarClan 
you’re okay! Did you find out about the other Clans?” 


More cats emerged from the tunnel and crowded 
around the patrol. 

“Did RiverClan survive?” 

“How far do the floods stretch?” 

It was Spiderleg who first noticed Minty. “Who's 
this?” he demanded. “Bramblestar, why have you 
brought another cat here?” 

“Another mouth to feed,” Berrynose added with a 
disapproving twitch of his whiskers. “Haven’t we got 
enough trouble, providing for our own cats?” 

Minty stared around her with huge blue eyes, 
daunted by the number of cats and the hostility from 
the two toms. 

“Her name is Minty,’ Bramblestar meowed, his 
tone cold as he raked his gaze over Spiderleg and 
Berrynose. “We rescued her from the flooded Twoleg 
dens near RiverClan territory.” 

“Twoleg dens?” Sandstorm’s ears flicked up in 
surprise. “You mean this is a kittypet?” She stretched 
her neck forward and sniffed Minty’s fur. “You don’t 
smell like one,” she commented. 

“I—Pve been swimming,” Minty stammered. 

“Her housefolk left her behind,” Bramblestar 


explained. “She’d have drowned or starved if we 
hadn’t helped her.” Then he remembered that he was 
Clan leader. He didn’t have to justify his decisions. 
“Take her inside, make a nest for her, and find her 
something to eat,” he ordered. 

“We'll do that,” Amberpaw offered, pushing 
through the knot of warriors. 

“Yeah, come on.” Snowpaw curled his tail around 
Minty’s shoulders. “We’ll look after you.” 

Bramblestar watched the apprentices lead Minty 
away. The young cats were bubbling with curiosity. 

“Are you really a kittypet?” Dewpaw asked, giving 
the black-and-white she-cat a fascinated stare. 
“What’s it like, living with Twolegs?” 

“Ts it true you don’t have to catch your own food?” 
Amberpaw mewed. 

Purdy was standing beside the tunnel entrance. 
“You come wi’ me,” he meowed kindly to Minty. “You 
can make a nest beside mine. I was a kittypet once, 
y know. PI tell you all about it... .” 

Bramblestar followed them into the tunnel to make 
sure that Minty wasn’t too overwhelmed. Dewpaw 
and Snowpaw fetched more bedding and spread it out 


on the floor between their own nests and Purdy’s. 

“There!” Snowpaw mewed. “It's a bit wet, but it’s 
not too bad when you get used to it.” 

Minty gasped when she saw the scanty heap of 
moss and bracken. “I can’t sleep on that!” she 
exclaimed. “At home I have a basket! And a 
blanket!” 

The three apprentices looked at one another. “We 
don’t know what those are,’ Amberpaw meowed. 
“But look, I’ve got some feathers in my nest. You can 
have them if you like.” 

“Th-thank you.” Minty gave her nest a dubious 
look as Amberpaw generously added the feathers. 

Bramblestar was distracted from Minty’s troubles 
as Squirrelflight and Leafpool walked into the tunnel 
and came up to him. 

“There’s a real problem with the bedding,” 
Squirrelflight began. “Everything’s soaking wet, and 
cats are getting aches from sleeping on the cold stone 
floor in the tunnels.” 

“Well, we can’t sleep outside,” Bramblestar told 
her. “It might rain again.” 

Squirrelflight and Leafpool exchanged a glance. 


“That’s true,” Leafpool meowed. “But we need to 
find some decent dry bedding or we’re all going to 
catch whitecough.” 

As if to prove her words, a hacking cough sounded 
from where Briarlight was lying, deeper inside the 
tunnel. Bramblestar blinked, peering into the shadows. 
Jayfeather was crouched beside the dark-pawed she- 
cat, concern visible in every line of his body, while 
nearby Millie anxiously scuffled her claws on the rock 
floor. 

Bramblestar felt heavy with worry as he headed 
outside. Where do they expect me to get dry 
bedding? Out of my ears? 

Cloudtail was trudging up the slope, dangling a 
couple of mice from his jaws. Brightheart, Rosepetal, 
and Blossomfall followed him; Brightheart was 
carrying a squirrel, while Rosepetal and Blossomfall 
both had starlings. 

“I think the prey is starting to come back,” 
Cloudtail reported when he had dropped his catch on 
the fresh-kill pile. “Better than yesterday, anyway.” 

“Good,” Bramblestar mewed, grateful for any 
scrap of good news. There was already prey on the 


pile; hunting patrols must have been out earlier, too. 
“Squirrelflight, can you take charge of doling it out? 
There should be enough for every cat to have 
something.” 

Squirrelflight nodded and set about efficiently 
dividing up the catch, while Brightheart helped carry 
each share to their Clanmates. 

Minty stared in horror as Brightheart dropped a 
starling in front of her. 

“Im not eating that!” she declared, screwing her 
nose. 

“It’s tasty,” Amberpaw reassured her. “And when 
you’ve eaten it, you can add the feathers to your nest.” 
Minty just turned away with her nose in the air. 

“Okay, Pll have it if you don’t want it,” mewed 
Dewpaw, who had already gulped down his portion of 
squirrel. 

“You will not,” Brightheart told him, gently shoving 
the apprentice away. “Queens and elders eat first, 
remember. Purdy, would you like it?” 

The old tabby shook his head. “No, thanks, that 
mouse was plenty for me.” 

“Then Pll take it back to the fresh-kill pile for 


later,’ Brightheart meowed. “Minty, if you change your 
mind, ask me and I’I fetch it for you.” 

Minty didn’t reply, but Dewpaw watched with a 
disappointed look as Brightheart picked up the starling 
and carried it away. 

By the time the fresh-kill was eaten, the daylight 
was dying, and gray shadows invaded the tunnel. 
Bramblestar made a point of settling down near Minty; 
it had been his decision to bring her back to the Clan, 
so he felt responsible for her, at least until she was 
more settled. 

The kittypet was crouching on the moss and 
bracken, her paws tucked under her. Bramblestar 
could hear her belly rumbling, but she looked too 
stunned to complain. After a few moments she heaved 
a gusty sigh and curled up with her tail over her nose. 

But she didn’t go to sleep. Wakeful himself, 
Bramblestar heard her tossing and turning, and once 
she let out a miserable whimper. At the sound, Millie 
rose from her nest beside Briarlight and padded past 
Bramblestar to sit down next to Minty. 

“T know just how you feel,” she murmured. “I was 
a kittypet once. It took me a long time to learn how to 


live in the wild.” 

In the half light, Bramblestar saw Minty raise her 
head and stare at Millie. “You were a kittypet? Did 
your housefolk leave you behind, or did you choose to 
live out here like this?” 

“I chose to go with Graystripe when he came back 
to the Clan,” Millie purred. “It’s worth all the soft beds 
and all the food the Twolegs gave me, to be here with 
him.” 

“Don’t you ever wish you could go back?” 

“I wouldn't change a thing,” Millie assured her. 
“Except that I wish my daughter Briarlight hadn’t been 
injured. PI never leave ThunderClan, but I'll never 
forget that there’s another way to live, either.” 

I never knew Millie felt like that, Bramblestar 
thought, with a pang of guilt that Millie had never been 
one of his favorite cats, with her perpetual fussing over 
Briarlight. I’ll show her more respect in the future. 

At least the conversation with Millie seemed to 
have settled Minty; soon she curled up again and her 
steady breathing told Bramblestar she was asleep at 
last. 


Bramblestar woke to see pale dawn light trickling 
into the tunnel. It looked as dull and gray as the day 
before, he thought. We need proper sunlight to dry 
out the forest. 

While he was giving his pelt a quick grooming, he 
heard the sound of paw steps, and cats brushing 
through the undergrowth. Rosepetal, who was on 
guard at the entrance to the tunnel, stuck her head 
inside. 

“Bramblestar, there are a couple of cats coming up 
from the direction of ShadowClan.” 

“Thanks, Rosepetal.” Bramblestar looked around 
and saw that Lionblaze and Mousewhisker were 
stirring too. He beckoned them with a flick of his ears. 
“Let’s go see what they want.” 

As Bramblestar stepped out of the tunnel he 
spotted two cats emerging from the sodden 
undergrowth: Rowanclaw, the ShadowClan deputy, and 
Littlecloud, their medicine cat. Bramblestar’s paws 
tingled. Could he guess what this visit was about? 

“Greetings,” he meowed, padding forward. 

“Greetings, Bramblestar,” Littlecloud responded. 
With a glance at Rowanclaw he added, “We’re on our 


way to the Moonpool. I don’t know if it’s escaped the 
flooding, but it’s high up in the mountains, so we’re 
going to take the risk that it’s survived.” He sighed. “Tf 
it hasn't, I fear for the Clans... .” 

“Im ShadowClan leader now,’ Rowanclaw 
explained, though no explanation was necessary. 
“Blackstar lost his ninth life in the storm.” 

“Im sorry.” Bramblestar regretted the death of 
any Clan leader, though he was pleased that 
Rowanclaw would succeed Blackstar. His sister 
Tawnypelt’s mate would make a strong and vigorous 
leader. “May he walk in peace with StarClan. And 
may your leadership go well,” he added. 

Rowanclaw nodded. “Thanks. How are things in 
ThunderClan?” he asked. “Did all your cats survive?” 

“Yes,” Bramblestar replied. “It was a struggle, but 
we’re all okay.” He stopped himself from saying more, 
especially not that the whole Clan was living in the 
tunnel. 

Rowanclaw didn’t offer any more information 
about ShadowClan, either. J know how tough it is for 
them, Bramblestar thought, remembering the journey 
through their waterlogged territory the day before. 


“This is a hard day for all the Clans,” Rowanclaw 
mewed. He seemed subdued, clearly grieving for 
Blackstar and worried about his own leadership in this 
crisis. “StarClan grant that we all survive.” 

Bramblestar murmured agreement. He watched 
the two ShadowClan cats trek farther up the hill in the 
direction of the Moonpool until they were out of sight. 
Then Bramblestar turned back to the tunnel to meet 
Jayfeather, who was just emerging. The medicine cat 
raised his head and gave a good sniff. 

“Rowanclaw and Littlecloud were here?” he 
meowed. 

“Yes. On their way to the Moonpool.” 

Jayfeather bowed his head for a heartbeat. “I’m 
not surprised Blackstar lost his last life” he mewed at 
last. “He was old, and he’d seen so much.” 

Bramblestar felt how odd it was to hear Jayfeather 
talking like this. [t's like he’s an old cat himself. But 
then, Jayfeather has seen more than most of us, in 
spite of being blind. 

By now the other cats were waking up and 
climbing stiffly into the open. The day was growing 
brighter, though the sun had not yet risen, and a cold 


breeze rattled the branches and spun raindrops into the 
air. 

Squirrelflight appeared from the tunnel and spoke 
through a massive yawn. “What patrols do you want 
today?” 

“We need to concentrate on hunting,” Bramblestar 
told her. “Get Sandstorm and Cloudtail to lead patrols. 
And will you lead one too, along the WindClan border? 
PI take one to ShadowClan.” 

Squirrelflight nodded. “What do you want done 
about the WindClan stream?” 

Bramblestar hesitated, remembering the WindClan 
patrol’s frenzied assertion of their rights over the 
water. “Nothing, for now,” he decided. “I hope the 
problem will resolve itself once the floodwater goes 
down. Take cats with you who’ll keep their heads if 
WindClan cats challenge you.” 

As Squirrelflight turned away to divide the cats into 
patrols, Briarlight emerged from the tunnel with Millie 
beside her. Bramblestar noticed that the young she-cat 
winced as she dragged herself along the ground. 

“Is something wrong?” he called. 

It was Millie who replied. “She’s getting sores on 


her belly from the damp bedding. Bramblestar, you 
have to do something!” 

“TIl be okay,” Briarlight muttered. “Don’t fuss!” 

“Jayfeather?” Bramblestar glanced toward his 
medicine cat. “What do you think?” 

Jayfeather padded up to Briarlight. “Why didn’t 
you tell me you were getting sores?” he asked 
brusquely. 

Briarlight looked at her paws. “I didn’t want to 
bother you.” 

“StarClan help us!” Jayfeather puffed out a sigh. 
“What do you think a medicine cat is for?” To 
Bramblestar he added, ‘TIl examine her sores and find 
her some herbs, but Millie is right. Sleeping on stone 
and wet bedding won’t do Briarlight any good at all.” 

Before Bramblestar could respond, a squeal 
sounded from the tunnel entrance. He glanced over his 
shoulder to see that Minty had appeared with 
Amberpaw. 

“Oh, wow!” the kittypet exclaimed, her blue eyes 
round with shock. “That cat has no legs!” 

Stupid furball, Bramblestar thought, as Briarlight 
shrank with embarrassment. 


“Of course she’s got legs,’ Amberpaw mewed, 
brisk and sensible. “The back ones don’t work, that’s 
all.” 

“And she’s still alive?” Minty asked. “Don’t you 
have to feed her and stuff?” 

“Yes, we catch prey for her,’ Amberpaw replied. 
“What do you take us for? She’s our Clanmate! Do 
you think we wouldn’t help her?” 

Minty gave Briarlight a fascinated glance. “You’re 
not really wild at all, then,” she murmured. 

“Yes, we are,’ Amberpaw meowed with a 
decisive flick of her tail “Wild’s not the same as 
savage.” 

Bramblestar gave the apprentice a nod of 
approval. He still couldn’t see any answer to the 
problem of the wet bedding, and hoped that something 
would occur to him on patrol. It would be a relief to get 
away from the makeshift camp for a while. 

“Dovewmg,” he began, beckoning to the cat 
nearest him. “I want you to come with me to patrol the 
ShadowClan border.” 

“Sure,” Dovewing mewed. “I need some exercise 
to take the stiffness out of my legs.” 


“Lets take the two older apprentices,” 
Bramblestar suggested. “They’ve missed out on a lot 
of training lately. And their mentors, of course.” 

“PIL round them up.” Dovewing padded into the 
tunnel with a whisk of her tail. Moments later she 
reappeared with Poppyfrost and Bumblestripe, Lilypaw 
and Seedpaw bouncing with anticipation behind their 
mentors. 

“We’re really going to patrol the ShadowClan 
border?” Seedpaw chirped. 

Bramblestar nodded. “What's left of it. And there 
might be dangers we’re not used to, so both of you 
need to be sensible and not go dashing off.” 

“We won't,” Lilypaw promised. 

Bramblestar led the patrol along the ridge toward 
ShadowClan, setting scent markers at the edge of the 
territory until they reached the border stream. Swollen 
by the heavy rain, it had burst its banks and become a 
brown, churning torrent as it rolled toward the lake. 
Pausing to taste the air, Bramblestar realized that he 
could only pick up faint traces of ShadowClan scent. 
“They haven’t renewed their scent markers since 
yesterday,” he mewed. 


“We haven’t renewed ours yet, either,” Poppyfrost 
pointed out. “There’s not much point in all this wet,” 
she added with a shiver. 

“No cat will try to cross this stream, that’s for 
sure,” Bumblestripe agreed. 

“Still, I think we will go on leaving markers,” 
Bramblestar decided. “The apprentices can practice 
setting them.” 

“Yes!” Lilypaw jumped into the air. “We’ll feel like 
real warriors.” 

Gradually they worked ther way downstream, 
finding new places to set the markers at the edge of 
the water. The boundary was farther into ThunderClan 
territory than it used to be, thanks to the flooded 
stream. 

“I hope ShadowClan doesn’t think we're giving 
them more territory when the floods go down,” 
Bumblestripe murmured. 

“If they do, they’ll soon find out they’re wrong,” 
Bramblestar responded grimly. 

A thin drizzle began to fall, soaking their pelts and 
striking a chill right through to their bones. Apart from 
the patter of droplets, the forest was silent. 


Bramblestar felt his neck fur begin to rise at the 
strangeness of pushing through the drenched 
undergrowth, under dripping trees, and finding no trace 
of prey or any other cats. Even the birds had stopped 
singing. 

The apprentices, who had been scampering a few 
paw steps ahead, slithered to a halt. 

“Wow, look at that!” Lilypaw exclaimed. 

Bramblestar trotted forward to join the young cats. 
They had reached the edge of the flooded lake. The 
water stretched in front of them in an endless silver 
pool, with the tops of trees poking out of it. 

“The water’s risen above the old Thunderpath,” 
Seedpaw meowed. “That’s more fox-lengths from the 
lake than I can count!” 

Lilypaw was blinking unhappily as she gazed out 
over the flood. 

“What’s the matter?” Seedpaw asked. 

“I was thinking of all the drowned prey,” Lilypaw 
mewed. “How are we going to find enough to eat?” 

“That's easy!” Seedpaw replied. “We’ll have to 
expand our territory over the other side of the ridge.” 

Bramblestar stared at the golden-brown cat in 


astonishment. Could this be the answer to the shortage 
of prey? It had never occurred to him to hunt 
anywhere but in the remains of their own territory. 

“You know, Seedpaw could be right,’ Dovewing 
murmured. 

“I don’t know. . . .” Bramblestar felt that as leader 
he had to be more cautious. “It's a big paw step, to 
consider changing our boundaries.” 

“But we’d be unchallenged if we hunted beyond 
the ridge,’ Bumblestripe pointed out. “No other cats 
live there.” 

Poppyfrost’s tail twitched. “There would be foxes 
and badgers. We had enough trouble with them when 
ThunderClan first made its territory here. Can we take 
on that kind of challenge when we’re in this state?” 
she added, gesturing with her tail at their skinny bodies 
and sodden pelts. 

“We could always start with hunting patrols,” 
Bramblestar mewed, beginning to be intrigued by the 
prospect of more prey. “We don’t need to mark out a 
whole territory.” 

While they were talking, the apprentices had been 
running along the water’s edge, half-thrilled and half- 


fearful as they gazed out at the surging water. 

“Look!” Lilypaw let out a squeak. “It’s the Stick of 
Fallen Warriors!” 

Bramblestar looked where she was pointing and 
spotted the stick that Jayfeather had marked with 
scratches as a memorial to the cats who had died in 
the Great Battle. It was half-floating, half-submerged 
in the floodwater, wedged among the branches of an 
oak tree. 

“We have to get it!” Seedpaw exclaimed. 

Both young cats were poised to plunge into the 
lake; Bramblestar reached them just in time to block 
their path. 

“Stop!” he ordered. “It’s far too dangerous to 
swim in the floodwater!” 

“But the stick . . .” Seedpaw protested. “It's 
important!” 

“And it will still be there when the water goes 
down,” Poppyfrost meowed firmly. “Now come away 
from the edge.” 

She and Bumblestripe herded their apprentices 
away from the sucking edge of the floodwater, and 
turned back toward the camp. 


“Hey!” Bumblestripe halted, looking back. “I can 
see a fish, swimming among the trees.” 

Bramblestar spotted it too, a swift, silver glimmer 
among the drowned leaves. For a heartbeat he 
wondered if they should try to catch it. No, he decided. 
We’re all wet enough. 

“We’ll try hunting beyond the ridge,” he told the 
others as they plodded over the muddy ground. “That 
was a good idea, Seedpaw.” 

Seedpaw puffed out her chest. “Please let me 
come on the patrol!” she begged. 

“No,” Bumblestripe replied. “Only experienced 
warriors should go beyond the boundaries.” Glancing 
at Bramblestar, who nodded in agreement, he added, 
“There could be other cats hunting there because of 
the flood, as well as badgers and foxes.” 

“But I’m a great hunter!” Seedpaw insisted. “I can 
pounce really well. Watch!” 

She leaped into the air and landed with her front 
claws sunk deep into a clump of soggy moss. “I caught 
it!” she yowled. But when she tried to step back and 
withdraw her claws, the moss was so wet that it clung 
to her fur and she couldn’t get it off. “This is yucky!” 


she complained as she shook her paws. 

“Keep still” Lilypaw mewed, padding up to her 
sister and stripping off the moss with careful scrapes 
of her claws. “Honestly, Seedpaw, sometimes you’re 
such a stupid furball.” 

Seedpaw blinked in embarrassment and her tail 
drooped. 

“But you’re right, that was a great pounce,” 
Dovewing put in. “And Bumblestripe tells me you’re 
an awesome hunter. Maybe you’d like to show me 
some of your skills?” 

Seedpaw brightened up a little. “I know you’re 
only trying to make me feel better,” she mewed. “And 
hoping I won’t think about hunting over the ridge 
anymore. But sure, P Il show you if you want.” 

“Thanks, that would be great,’ Dovewing 
responded, with a hint of amusement. 

As the patrol moved off again, Bumblestripe 
padded alongside Dovewing. “That was kind,” he 
murmured, brushing his muzzle against the she-cat’s 
shoulder. “Thanks, Dovewing.” 

“I like working with the apprentices,’ Dovewing 
purred. 


“I can’t wait for us to have our own kits,” 
Bumblestripe went on. “I know you'll be a great 
mother.” 

To Bramblestar’s surprise, Dovewing stepped 
away from her mate. “There’s plenty of time for that,” 
she mewed. “We need to deal with the flood first.” 

Bumblestripe flattened his ears. “Right, okay,” he 
murmured, but Bramblestar wondered if Dovewing 
had seen the hurt look in his eyes. Were things all right 
between them? 





CHAPTER 13 
de 


S 


The rain stopped, but the clouds didn’t clear, so it 
was impossible to tell when it was sunhigh. But when 
the sky seemed brightest overhead, Bramblestar 
gathered the cats together to share the meager prey 
the hunters had brought back. 

“I can’t stand biting through soggy fur,’ Cloudtail 
complained, prodding the limp body of a mouse with his 
front paw. “What I wouldn’t give to be tucking in to a 
nice juicy vole, back in the hollow in the sunshine!” 

“Well, wet mouse is all you’re going to get,” his 
mate, Brightheart, told him. “You’ll have to make the 
best of it.” 

Cloudtail grunted, and began to eat in small, 
fastidious bites. 

Bramblestar noticed that Minty had emerged from 
the tunnel with Millie and the younger apprentices. She 
was staring in dismay at the sparrow Amberpaw put in 
front of her. 

“T’m so hungry!” she moaned. “But eating that . . . 


it’s yucky!” 


Amberpaw rolled her eyes. 

“Just try it,” Millie coaxed the kittypet, her tone 
sympathetic. “You might find you like it.” As Minty 
gave her a disbelieving glance, she continued, “I 
remember the first time I ate wild prey. It was a bit of 
a shock, after Twoleg food! But I wouldn’t want to go 
back to eating that dry stuff now.” 

Minty gave the sparrow a wary sniff. “It’s covered 
in feathers. I can’t eat those.” 

“Bite down hard, like this.” Amberpaw 
demonstrated with her own blackbird. “You can spit 
the feathers out after.” 

Minty shuddered, but sank her teeth into the 
sparrow as Amberpaw had demonstrated. Bramblestar 
saw her gulp down the mouthful with a stunned 
expression and a feather stuck to her nose. 

At least she 5 eating, he thought. 

“The hunting was poor today,” he commented to 
Squirrelflight, who was sharing a vole with him. 
“Seedpaw suggested sending a patrol outside the 
territory.” 

Squirrelflight blinked in surprise, then nodded. “It 
might be worth a try.” 


“TI go,” Thornclaw meowed instantly, looking up 
from the scrawny rabbit he was sharing with 
Brackenfur, Cherryfall, and Blossomfall. “Anything to 
stop my belly rumbling.” 

“Count me in too,” Brackenfur added. 

“And me,” Blossomfall mewed. “It sounds like a 
great idea.” 

“Thanks.” Bramblestar felt proud of his Clanmates 
for volunteering so quickly to go into unknown and 
possibly dangerous territory. “PI come with you.” 

“Bramblestar . . .” Squirrelflight gave him a nudge, 
and motioned with her ears for him to move out of 
earshot of the others. “You need to rest,” she went on 
when she was sure that they couldn’t be overheard. 
“You can’t do every patrol. I’Il go instead.” 

“But you’ve already hunted today,” Bramblestar 
objected. 

“And you did the ShadowClan border patrol.” 
Squirrelflight’s tail-tip was twitching, though she kept 
her voice low. “And yesterday you trekked all the way 
over to RiverClan and risked your life rescuing that 
kittypet.” 

“So?” Bramblestar began to feel frustrated. “I’m 


fine. It’s not a problem.” 

“Il be a problem for the rest of us if our Clan 
leader collapses from exhaustion.” 

Bramblestar heaved a long sigh. “Remind me why 
I chose you to be my deputy,” he muttered through his 
teeth. 

“Because I won't let you boss me around,” 
Squirrelflight retorted, her green eyes flashing. 

True, Bramblestar thought ruefully. “Okay,” he 
mewed, giving in. ‘T'I just go as far as the border and 
make sure that things seem okay over there. Then I'll 
come back.” 

Squirrelflight didn’t look satisfied, but she muttered 
something under her breath and didn’t argue any more. 

When Bramblestar had finished his share of the 
vole, and was waiting for the rest of his patrol to finish 
scraping the last shreds of flesh off the rabbit, 
Jayfeather came up from where he had been eating 
with Dustpelt and Leafpool. Bramblestar’s paws 
tingled when he saw the troubled expression on the 
face of his medicine cat. 

“Is Briarlight’s whitecough worse?” he asked 
anxiously. 


“No, thank StarClan,” Jayfeather replied. “Though 
it’s worrying me that Amberpaw and Sandstorm have 
both started coughing. But that’s not the real problem,” 
he went on rapidly. “Look at this.” He held up a 
forepaw and Bramblestar saw that blood was trickling 
from one of his pads. 

“Pll get Leafpool” Bramblestar mewed 
immediately. 

“No, it’s nothing. Only a scratch.” Jayfeather 
swiped his tongue over the injured pad. “The point is, I 
trod on a branch that hadn’t been there a moment 
before.” 

“Is that so unusual?” Bramblestar asked. 

“You know me.” Jayfeather twitched his tail. “I 
don’t trip over things just because I can’t see them. 
When did I last hurt myself?” 

Bramblestar couldn’t remember. Jayfeather never 
needed his own healing herbs, unlike the other cats, 
who were always getting thorns in their paws or 
scratching themselves on bramble tendrils. An 
unpleasant suspicion occurred to Bramblestar, making 
the prey he had just eaten feel like a rock in his belly. 

“Do you think this is a sign from StarClan?” he 


asked. “Some other danger we have to face?” 

“T’m not sure,” Jayfeather admitted, ruffling up his 
pelt. “The storm has changed everything in the forest. 
Maybe I just made a mistake.” 

Bramblestar’s ears flicked up in surprise. When 
does Jayfeather ever admit to being mistaken? 

“In any case,” the medicine cat went on, “I think 
we should take careful note of everything. Tell the 
patrol to be extra cautious beyond the territory. They 
won’t know where they’re putting their paws, and this 
could be a warning of injury.” 

“Maybe we shouldn’t hunt over there after all,” 
Bramblestar mused. 

“Oh, come on,  Bramblestar,”” Thornclaw 
interrupted, pausing as he cleaned his whiskers. 
Bramblestar jumped, not realizing that the other 
warriors had overheard. “Jayfeather’s right to warn us, 
but we’ll be fine,” Thornclaw continued. “We know 
we’ll be on unfamiliar ground, so we’ll tread carefully.” 

Reluctantly Bramblestar agreed, if only because he 
didn’t want to worry his Clanmates with thoughts of 
omens. He took the lead as the patrol climbed up to the 
ridge. The morning’s scent markers were still fresh 


and strong; a shiver crept right through his pelt from 
nose to tail as he stepped across them and stood in 
unfamiliar territory. 

Though the border was less than a taillength 
behind him, the forest ahead of him looked dark and 
threatening, full of sinister smells. Tasting the air, 
Bramblestar picked up traces of fox and badger. Fear 
swelled inside him, and for a moment he wanted to 
wail like a lost kit. He was tempted to change his mind 
and lead the patrol back to the safety of their own 
territory. 

Then he looked at his Clanmates and saw that their 
fur was bristling with excitement, not fear. 

“I can smell rabbits!” Thornclaw exclaimed in a 
hoarse whisper. 

“And squirrels,” Blossomfall added. “There should 
be plenty of them. This is where the prey would have 
fled when the water started to rise.” 

Bramblestar realized that he needed to have faith 
in his warriors’ skills. They were strong and 
experienced, fully capable of dealing with any danger 
they were likely to meet. Squirrelflight was right, he 
thought. / can t do everything. 


“What about those hazel bushes over there?” 
Brackenfur meowed, pointing with his tail. “PI bet a 
moon of dawn patrols there’s something lurking in 
there.” 

“And in that bramble thicket,’ Cherryfall mewed. 
“Mice and shrews love hiding in that kind of dense 
brush.” 

“Okay.” Thornclaw took charge. “Spread out in a 
line, but let’s not lose sight of one another. If you scent 
prey, signal with your tail. The wind’s blowing toward 
us, so that should help.” 

Bramblestar watched his Clanmates bound into the 
trees. Almost at once Cherryfall waved her tail wildly. 
“Squirrel!” she called. “Over here!” 

The rest of the patrol headed toward her, falling 
into the familiar hunting pattern of surrounding the tree 
where she had scented prey. Bramblestar’s paws felt 
heavy as he turned away and began padding down to 
the tunnel. He would much rather have stayed and 
joined the hunt. 

When he returned to the temporary camp, he 
found Millie outside with Briarlight, helping the injured 
cat with her exercises. Briarlight couldn’t clear her 


chest; she seemed to be coughing every heartbeat, and 
nothing Millie did was helping. Minty was standing 
close by, her fur bristling while her horrified gaze was 
fixed on Briarlight. 

The last thing Briarlight needs is to have a 
stranger staring at her, Bramblestar thought, his 
whiskers twitching with annoyance. Glancing around, 
he spotted Daisy a couple of tail-lengths away, 
spreading out some of the bedding yet again in a futile 
attempt to dry it out. He beckoned her over with his 
tail. 

“Is there something I can do?” Daisy asked as she 
padded up. 

Bramblestar angled his ears toward Minty. ‘T d like 
you to show her the forest,” he meowed. “Don’t scare 
her, but give her an idea of where the territory lies, 
where she should avoid, that kind of thing.” 

“Sure, Bramblestar,” Daisy responded cheerfully. 
“We can look for extra bedding on the way. Minty 
might be happier if she has a job to do.” 

“Amberpaw and I will come, too,” Spiderleg 
meowed, strolling up from where he had been helping 
his apprentice to practice her hunter’s crouch. 


Amberpaw coughed as she followed him, and 
Daisy turned to her with a look of concern. “Are you 
sure you’re fit enough?” 

“TI be fine. It’s only a tickle. I—” Amberpaw 
broke off as another fit of coughing seized her. “I don’t 
want to be stuck in that horrible tunnel. Besides, I think 
Minty trusts me.” She bounded over to the kittypet and 
gave her a friendly nudge. “Come on, we’re going to 
show you the forest,” she urged. “It”1l be fun.” 

Minty blinked at her. “What if there are foxes or 
badgers?” 

“There aren't,” Amberpaw replied robustly. “We 
cleared them all out of our territory. They know better 
than to come back.” 

“Well . . . okay.” Minty got up and followed 
Amberpaw back to the two warriors. 

Bramblestar noticed that she managed to trip over 
a half-buried stone and a stray twig before she even 
reached them. Good luck with taking her anywhere, 
he thought. Maybe that's what Jayfeather's omen 
meant. 

“Keep a close eye on her,” he murmured to Daisy. 
“She may be mouse-brained, but I don’t want her 


hurt.” 

“Don't worry,” Daisy reassured him. “TI treat her 
like a kit, the first day out of the nursery.” 

“TIl help, too.” Sandstorm padded up from where 
she had been grooming her fur in the shelter of a bush. 
With an amused glance at Bramblestar, she added 
quietly, “Spiderleg was very quick to offer to go too. I 
wonder if he wants to get back together with Daisy.” 
A cough ended her words. 

Bramblestar doubted that the two cats would ever 
be mates again, and he was more worried about 
Sandstorm. “I don’t think you should be trekking 
through the forest with that cough,” he meowed. “It’s 
important to stay dry and warm.” 

Sandstorm’s look of amusement deepened. “And 
how do you suggest I do that?” she asked teasingly. 
“T’ve only got a choice of wet bedding or hard stone to 
sleep on.” 

Daisy’s patrol turned to leave, but before they had 
gone a couple of paw steps, the sound of scuffling 
broke out in the undergrowth above the tunnel 
entrance. 

Minty let out a scared squeal. “Foxes!” 


Before any cat could react, Snowpaw and 
Dewpaw rolled into the open, their legs fastened 
around each other as they wrestled. Whitewing and 
Ivypool scrambled out of the bracken behind them. 

“Careful!” Whitewing called. “Watch where 
you’re going!” 

“Keep away from the edge, or you'll fall” 
Whitewing added. 

The two apprentices broke apart, shaking their 
pelts, then suddenly froze. “I’m slipping!” Snowpaw 
cried in a shrill caterwaul, his paws paddling in the soil 
above the tunnel as if it were water. 

“Mudslide!” Ivypool screeched. 

For a heartbeat Bramblestar’s paws were rooted 
to the ground as he watched a chunk of earth above 
the tunnel entrance begin to give way, carrying the four 
cats with it. Then he pulled himself together. “Out of 
the way!” he yowled. 

Before the words were out he flung himself across 
to where Briarlight was lying. With Millie’s help he 
heaved her onto his back, crumbling earth falling all 
around them, then raced toward the trees. Cats shot 
away from the entrance, wailing in panic, as the soil 


roared down, fierce as another storm. 

As the sound died away Bramblestar halted and 
turned around, letting Briarlight slide down from his 
back. A mound of earth covered the entrance to the 
tunnel. At first he couldn’t see any of the four cats 
who had been caught in the slide, and his pelt prickled 
with the memory of the tunnel collapse that had buried 
Hollyleaf, so many moons ago. 

Then Ivypool popped her head out of the heap, 
spitting earth and floundering through the loose soil as 
she dragged herself clear. Snowpaw reappeared a 
moment later, burrowing his way out. The soil at the 
top of the mound heaved and fell away to reveal 
Whitewing; she was helping Dewpaw, who seemed 
dazed, hardly moving at all. 

Dustpelt, Cloudtail, and Brightheart dashed up to 
the heap of earth and helped the four cats to struggle 
free. Bramblestar followed hard on their paws. To his 
relief, none of them seemed seriously hurt. Even 
Dewpaw, who looked a little unsteady when he stood 
on solid ground again, soon recovered and began 
shaking himself furiously to get the soil out of his pelt. 

“Ugh! Pll never be clean again!” Ivypool spat. She 


had shaken off the loose soil, but her fur was still 
plastered with mud, and her claws were clogged with 
It. 

“Let's thank StarClan it was no worse,” 
Whitewing meowed. 

Bramblestar looked at the pile of earth. At first he 
thought that it was blocking the tunnel, and that cats 
would have to burrow to release their Clanmates 
trapped inside. But then he realized that there was a 
narrow gap beside the mound of soil, just wide enough 
to let cats in and out of the tunnel. 

“Are you all okay in there?” he called. 

Purdy squeezed his way out and looked around 
with a disgusted expression. “What next?” he grunted. 
“Haven’t we got enough trouble, without the forest 
throwin’ earth at us?” 

Bramblestar guessed that the rain must have 
loosened the ground above the tunnel, and the weight 
of four cats on top of it had been enough to bring it 
down. “No cat is to go up there again,” he ordered. 
“Not until everything has had a chance to dry out.” 

“Don't worry, we won't,” Whitewing muttered. “I 
thought I was on my way to StarClan when the ground 


started disappearing under my paws.” 

The rest of the Clan gathered around, surveying 
the mess with wide, wary eyes. Minty looked terrified; 
Daisy had curled her tail around the kittypet’s 
shoulders, and was mewing something to her in a low 
voice. Briarlight was managing to drag herself back, 
with Millie at her side as always. 

Dustpelt padded up to Bramblestar and gave the 
earth mound an experimental prod with one paw. “You 
know,” he meowed, “maybe we shouldn’t clear this 
away. When the wind’s in the wrong direction it 
whistles straight down the tunnel and freezes our fur 
off, and this would make a good windbreak.” 

“But won’t the wind scatter it?” Bramblestar 
asked. 

“Not if we find something to shore it up with,” 
Dustpelt told him. 

Bramblestar nodded to the older warrior. ‘TIl put 
you in charge of it, then,” he mewed. “See what you 
can do.” 

As Dustpelt studied the heap, Bramblestar glanced 
around again. The panic was over by now and the cats 
were chatting excitedly about what had happened. He 


could sense that they were dizzy with relief, that what 
had seemed to be a dreadful accident had turned out to 
be not too bad after all. 

Bramblestar spotted Dewpaw scoopng up a 
pawful of mud and throwing it at Snowpaw, who 
ducked to dodge it before scraping up some mud of his 
own. 

“That's enough of that!” Ivypool scolded. 

“We can’t get any dirtier than we already are,” 
Dewpaw pointed out with a cheeky glint in his eye. 

Ivypool sighed. “Apprentices!” 

Meanwhile Poppyfrost, Dovewing, and 
Bumblestripe were helping Leafpool and Jayfeather to 
check every cat who had been close to the mudslide 
for possible injuries. But even the cats who had fallen 
were unhurt. 

If this is what Jayfeather’s omen foretold, 
Bramblestar thought, then we 've had a lucky escape. 

“We want to take Whitewing, Ivypool, and the 
apprentices to the WindClan stream to get a wash,” 
Dovewing reported, padding up to Bramblestar. 

Bramblestar flicked his ears back uneasily. “Is that 
a good idea after all that trouble with WindClan?” he 


asked. “Can’t they wash in the lake?” 

“No, the lake water has that awful tang of salt,” 
Whitewing meowed, picking her way over the muddy 
ground to join Dovewing. “We’d never get it out of our 
fur.” 

“Okay, then,” Bramblestar decided. “But if you do 
meet a WindClan patrol, don t get into a fight about the 
water. We have enough problems without that.” 

“We won’t,” Dovewing promised. Waving her tail 
to beckon the apprentices, she led the way across the 
hill in the direction of the WindClan border. 

“What do we need to do?” Squirrelflight asked, 
padding around the mudpile with a disgusted look on 
her face. “Don’t tell me we have to shift all this.” 

“No, Dustpelt thinks we can shore it up and use it 
as a windbreak,” Bramblestar replied. “There’s still 
room to get in and out.” 

Dustpelt struggled up at that moment, dragging a 
branch. “We need more of these,” he panted. “And 
stones, as big as you can manage. If we pack them in 
at the bottom of the pile, they’ll stop it from 
spreading.” 

“Right,” Squirrelflight mewed. “TIl find some other 


cats to help.” She bounded off. 

As Bramblestar helped Dustpelt to shove the 
branch into position, he heard Lilypaw’s voice coming 
from behind him. 

“We’re supposed to be having hunting practice. 
But I can’t find Poppyfrost and Bumblestripe 
anywhere.” 

“Nor can I,” Seedpaw added. 

Bramblestar glanced over his shoulder. “They’ve 
gone to the WindClan stream,” he told the apprentices. 
“They’ll be back soon.” 

Lilypaw and Seedpaw looked disappointed. 

“Can we help you instead?” Seedpaw asked. 
“What are you doing? What do you need?” 

The two apprentices crowded up, sniffing curiously 
at the branch that Dustpelt was still pushing into place. 

“We’ll get more!” Lilypaw announced, but as she 
turned she skidded in the mud and Seedpaw tripped 
over her. 

“For StarClan’s sake!” Dustpelt snapped. “A cat 
can’t move around here for nuisancy apprentices!” 

“But we want to do something useful!” Seedpaw 
protested, scrambling to her paws. 


“Then go and do it someplace else,’ Dustpelt 
muttered. “I’m sure you can think of something.” 

“Find a warrior to take you hunting,” Bramblestar 
suggested, but the two apprentices were already 
scampering away. I hope they dont get into trouble, 
he thought. 

He was about to follow them when he was 
distracted by Leafpool, who came limping up to him, 
wincing at every paw step. 

“What’s the matter?” Bramblestar meowed. “Did 
you wrench your paw when the earth fell?” 

Leafpool shook her head. “No, it’s that wretched 
piece of wood again, the one that caught Jayfeather 
earlier,’ she complained. “I was sure we’d moved it 
out of the way, but it must have rolled back.” 

“You’re not badly hurt?” 

“No, just annoyed,” Leafpool replied. “That stick is 
more trouble than the mudfall!” 

A stick? Bramblestar thought suddenly. A stick 
causing trouble? Where have I heard of a stick 
recently? Then he remembered. Jayfeather's Stick 
of the Fallen! The apprentices spotted it this 
morning, wedged in the branches of that oak tree. 


What if they’ve gone back to fetch it? 

He glanced around, but Lilypaw and Seedpaw 
were nowhere to be seen. 

This is ridiculous! Bramblestar told himself. 
You’re not a medicine cat; you cant interpret 
omens. But uneasiness was rising inside him like the 
lake water, his paws itching to be on the move. Maybe 
I have bees in my brain, but I have to go check for 
myself. 

Telling Leafpool to carry the troublesome branch a 
long way away, he headed briskly after the 
apprentices. They shouldnt be wandering about by 
themselves, even if they havent gone to the lake. 
They’re still very inexperienced. He tried to 
remember exactly where they had seen the stick, then 
realized he would do better to follow the apprentices’ 
scent trail. In spite of the soaking ground and 
undergrowth, he soon managed to pick it up. His 
apprehension increased as he realized it was leading 
straight for the edge of the floods. 

As he drew closer to the lake, the unnatural silence 
of the forest was split by a terrified screech. 

“Help!” 


Lilypaw! 

Bramblestar broke into a run, crashing through the 
brambles, oblivious of the thorns that tore at his fur. As 
he broke out of a thicket beside the edge of the flood, 
he spotted the half-submerged oak tree and Lilypaw 
thrashing desperately beside it. Peermg closer, 
Bramblestar realized that she was caught up in the ivy 
that twined around the tree, and she was being pulled 
underneath the water. 

Seedpaw was crouching on the bank, and as 
Bramblestar charged toward her, she straightened up 
and leaped into the water. ‘TIl help you, Lilypaw!” 

“Seedpaw! No!” Bramblestar yowled. 

But the young cat didn’t hear him. Flailing her 
paws, she swam toward her sister. When she reached 
the oak tree, she dived underwater to reach Lilypaw, 
who had given up struggling and disappeared. 

Bramblestar pushed as hard as he could, but he felt 
as if he was wading through mud. Reaching the 
nearest point of the shore to the submerged tree, he 
plunged into the water and swam out in a frenzy of 
fear. Both apprentices bobbed up for a moment, then 
vanished again. As Bramblestar reached the tree, 


Lilypaw reappeared alone. Bramblestar grabbed her 
scruff and supported her, thrashing his paws to keep 
them both afloat. 

“Are you still trapped?” he gasped, speaking 
around the mouthful of fur. 

Lilypaw shook her head. Bramblestar adjusted his 
grip on her scruff and started to swim back toward dry 
land, dragging the apprentice with him. She was too 
exhausted to swim, and by the time Bramblestar 
hauled her out of the flood, her eyes were closed. 

“Lilypaw! Wake up!” he begged, shaking her. 

Lilypaw twitched, then rolled over and coughed up 
several mouthfuls of water. “Where’s Seedpaw?” she 
rasped. “She freed me. . . . She bit through the ivy. . . 

Bramblestar looked over his shoulder. The water 
around the oak tree was ruffled but there was no sign 
of the other apprentice. “Stay there,” he ordered. ‘TH 
get Seedpaw.” 

Back at the oak tree, Bramblestar dived down, 
barely able to see in the murky water. Unseen tendrils 
grappled with his legs and head and twined around one 
paw; he had to wrench hard to pull it free. Then he 


bumped into a lump of sodden fur, clamped his jaws 
hard on it, and hauled it to the surface. Seedpaw was a 
dead weight, motionless and heavy as Bramblestar 
dragged her back to dry ground. 

As he laid Seedpaw beside her sister, Bramblestar 
heard movement from among the trees. He looked up 
to see Brightheart and Cinderheart break out from the 
bushes. 

“We heard the yowling,” Cinderheart panted. 
“What happened?” 

Brightheart said nothing, just pounced on Seedpaw 
and began pressing her belly with rhythmic thrusts. 
Every so often she paused to put her ear to Seedpaw’s 
chest, before opening the little cat’s mouth with one 
paw to check it was clear. Then she started pounding 
at Seedpaw’s belly again, her face grim. Lilypaw 
watched, her claws flexing in the sodden ground, while 
Bramblestar thanked StarClan for all the times 
Brightheart had helped Cinderpelt, Leafpool, and 
Jayfeather in their medicine-cat duties. 

But this time Seedpaw didn’t stir. Water trickled 
from her jaws, but her eyes didn’t open. At last 
Brightheart sat back, her gaze clouding. “I’m sorry,” 


she whispered. “She’s gone.” 

“Oh, no, no!” Lilypaw flung herself down beside 
her sister. “It’s all my fault! It was my idea to get the 
stick. I just wanted to be helpful!” 

“Tt wasn’t your fault,’ Cinderheart told her gently. 
“Come with me. We’ll go find your father.” She urged 
Lilypaw to her paws and began to lead her away. 
Lilypaw went with her reluctantly, looking over her 
shoulder at the limp body of her sister. 

Horror coursed through Bramblestar as he gazed 
down at Seedpaw. Its not Lilypaw’s fault; its mine. 
Why didn t I listen more carefully to Jayfeather and 
Leafpool? A stick that caused trouble? It should 
have been obvious! 

A sudden yowl pierced through the air and 
Brackenfur came hurtling through the trees. “What’s 
going on?” he demanded. 

Lilypaw broke away from Cinderheart and flung 
herself at the golden-brown warrior. “It’s Seedpaw!” 
she sobbed. 

Brackenfur wrapped his tail around his daughter’s 
shoulders. On trembling paws father and daughter 
approached Seedpaw’s body and stood looking down 


at her. 

“How can I bear this?” Brackenfur asked 
hoarsely. “To lose her mother, and now this . . .” 

“She walks with Sorreltail m StarClan now,” 
Bramblestar murmured, but he knew that his words 
were no comfort at all. “Ill carry her back to camp,” 
he added, crouching down so that Brackenfur could 
load Seedpaw’s body onto his back. 

Bramblestar walked slowly back to the tunnel, the 
other cats in a silent group behind him. He felt as 
though the weight of the whole forest was crushing 
down on him in Seedpaw’s fragile body. 

Is this the role of a Clan leader? he wondered. 
To watch my cats die one by one while I can do 
nothing to save them? 





CHAPTER 14 
de 


v 


Another gray dawn found the grief-stricken Clan 
outside the tunnel, grouped around Seedpaw’s body as 
they kept vigil for her. At length, as the light 
strengthened, Purdy rose stiffly to his paws. “It’s time 
to bury her,” he announced. 

“TIl help you,” Daisy meowed. “I know it’s a duty 
of the elders, but you can’t do it all by yourself, 
Purdy.” 

“TI help too,” Brackenfur added from where he 
sat at Seedpaw’s head, with Lilypaw pressed close to 
his side. 

The three cats picked up Seedpaw’s body between 
them and gently carried her away into the trees. 
Sandstorm padded over to Lilypaw and sat beside her, 
giving her ears a comforting lick. Bramblestar saw that 
the little cat couldn’t stop shivering. 

Beckoning Leafpool, he asked, “Is Lilypaw ill?” 

“Pm not sure,” Leafpool replied, her eyes 
sorrowful as she gazed at the apprentice. “It may be 
the onset of whitecough, or it may just be grief. It’s so 


hard when we can’t get properly dry and warm.” 

“At least yesterday’s patrol over the border 
brought back a decent haul of fresh-kill”’ Thornclaw 
put in. “T'I lead another patrol there today, if you like.” 

“Good idea,” meowed Squirrelflight. “Pll go too.” 

“We have to find some dry bedding,” Bramblestar 
declared. His pelt still prickled with concern for 
Lilypaw, but he was aware that it was his duty to pull 
the Clan out of its grief and get back to normal. And if 
he could find the bedding they needed, it would help 
Lilypaw, as well as Briarlight and the other cats with 
whitecough. 

“Where are you going to look?” Spiderleg asked. 
“Even if it’s not underwater, it’s soaked through. 
There’s no sun to dry anything out, and it looks like it’s 
going to rain again soon.” 

“Spiderleg’s right,’ Daisy mewed. “I’ve looked 
everywhere for moss, feathers, dry leaves, even inside 
hollow trees, and there’s nothing.” 

Dovewing took a pace forward, her eyes shining. 
“What about those pelts in the Twoleg dens, 
Bramblestar?” she mewed. “Remember? They were 
dry, and really soft, too.” 


For a moment Bramblestar was struck silent by 
Dovewing’s extraordinary suggestion. Raid Twoleg 
dens for bedding? Then he realized that she could be 
right. This could be our only chance of getting dry 
bedding to help Briarlight—and stop the rest of the 
Clan from getting whitecough. But a sense of dread 
stirred in him, as if he were looking down into dark 
water. Can I really justify taking cats back into that 
dangerous, flooded place? 

“TI go if you want, Bramblestar,’ Graystripe 
offered, stepping up to his shoulder. 

His Clanmate’s courage made up Bramblestar’s 
mind. “No, you’ve done it once,” he meowed. “This 
time IIl take Poppyfrost, Lionblaze, and Cinderheart, if 
they’re willing.” 

The three warriors nodded, looking somber. 

“You’ve done it once, too, Bramblestar,” 
Squirrelflight pointed out with an edge to her tone. 

“And I’m going to do it again,” he snapped. 

Squirrelflight snorted. “Being Clan leader isn’t just 
about being the bravest, you mouse-brained idiot.” 

Bramblestar dug his claws into the wet ground. 
“I'm going,” he insisted stubbornly. “I can’t ask my 


Clanmates to do something that I wouldn’t do myself. 
Come on, the sooner we go, the sooner we’ ll be back.” 

Refusing to argue anymore, he set out with his 
patrol to cross ShadowClan territory. Clouds surged 
black and ominous above their heads, though so far 
that day there had been no more rain. 

“I wonder where all the ShadowClan cats are,” 
Lionblaze meowed as they headed through the 
deserted pinewoods. “I’d have expected to see a dawn 
patrol by now.” 

“There are no fresh scents, either,” Poppyfrost 
added. 

“Maybe they’ve stayed in their camp to welcome 
Rowanstar back from the Moonpool,’ Bramblestar 
suggested. 

A stab of fellowship for the new ShadowClan 
leader pierced through Bramblestar as he remembered 
how awe-inspiring his own nine-lives ceremony had 
been. / had to deal with the aftermath of the Great 
Battle, and Rowanstar will have to deal with the 
flood, he thought. Great StarClan, let the water go 
down soon, so we can all get back to normal! 

When they emerged from the trees near the small 


Thunderpath, Lionblaze and the others stood aghast to 
see how far the floodwater stretched. 

“Where’s RiverClan?” Cinderheart asked, her 
voice shaking. 

“Farther away from the lake,” Bramblestar replied, 
reminding her how he and his patrol had located the 
RiverClan cats on their first expedition. “They’re okay, 
for now at least.” 

Though he said nothing to the others, Bramblestar 
was alarmed to see that the water level was no lower. 
If anything, the flood was a bit deeper. We’ll have to 
be extra careful, he told himself, pushing down the 
stirring of fear in his belly. 

He led his three Clanmates alongside the 
Thunderpath and showed them how they could cross 
using the top of the drowned monster. 

“I never thought monsters could be useful for 
anything!” Lionblaze muttered as he launched himself 
into the water. 

On the other side, Bramblestar took the lead along 
the fences until he spotted the Twoleg den where they 
had found Minty. He was thankful to see that the 
entrance was still open. “This way,” he meowed, 


readying himself for the awkward leap from the fence. 
“See that thing wedging the piece of wood ajar?” he 
added. “Graystripe says it’s called a chair. We have to 
jump onto it, and then we can get inside.” 

“What should we do if we fall in?” Poppyfrost 
asked nervously. 

“Swim,” Bramblestar told her, pushing off with a 
massive effort and landing with all four paws safely on 
the flat, wooden surface of the chair. 

He stepped aside to make room for Lionblaze to 
follow, and then Poppyfrost. The tortoiseshell she-cat 
misjudged the distance, and though her forepaws 
struck the Twoleg chair, her hind paws slid into the 
water. For a moment she thrashed helplessly, until 
Lionblaze grabbed her by the scruff and pulled her on. 

“Thanks!” she gasped. “I never want to see any 
more water as long as I live!” 

Once Cinderheart had made the jump safely, 
Bramblestar led the way to the upper level of the den. 
His pelt stood on end along his spine, even though 
there was no sign of Twolegs, and he saw that his 
companions were equally wary. All their coats were 
bristling as they gazed around at the unfamiliar Twoleg 


things, and they set their paws down as lightly as if 
they were stalking mice. 

Cinderheart was the only one of them to show 
anything but alarm and the need to get out of there as 
soon as possible. Her eyes looked ready to pop out as 
she studied their surroundings. “Can't we explore a 
bit?” she begged. “I’ve never been inside a Twoleg 
den before.” 

“No, we can’t,’ Lionblaze responded before 
Bramblestar had the chance to reply. “Let’s just do 
what we’ve come to do.” 

The Twoleg pelts were still heaped on the floor on 
the upper level, where the first patrol had found them. 

“These are great!” Poppyfrost purred, kneading 
one with her forepaws. “So soft and dry, and the whole 
Clan could sleep on just one of them.” 

Bramblestar sniffed warily at the pelts. “They 
smell like sheep,” he muttered. “But I can’t imagine 
how sheep pelts would get inside a Twoleg den.” 
Actually, I dont want to imagine... . 

Struggling with the heavy folds, the cats dragged 
the pelts down to the lower level, as far as the edge of 
the flood. 


“How are we going to carry these across the 
water?” Cinderheart asked. “We don’t want to get 
them wet.” 

Bramblestar thought for a moment. He pictured 
Minty in her tub and glanced around, looking for 
something the same size and shape. Finally he spotted 
a round black object, lying on its side near the edge of 
the water. It had a weird smell, but when he tested it 
with his teeth it felt strong and slightly chewy. 

“It seems okay,” he commented. “Let’s see if it 
floats.” 

With Poppyfrost helping, he dragged the black tub 
to the edge of the water and pushed it in. It bobbed on 
the surface, and when Bramblestar stretched out his 
neck to peer inside, he couldn’t see any leaks. 

“It's fine,’ he announced. “Let's get the pelts 
inside. We should be able to push it across the water 
and keep them dry.” 

It was an awkward job to haul the tub out again 
and pack the pelts inside. By now the strain of working 
inside a Twoleg den was beginning to get to 
Bramblestar. His skin crawled with nervousness, 
though he wasn’t sure exactly what he was afraid of. 


The rest of the patrol felt the same, he could tell, their 
ears laid back and their tails twitching. Every cat 
jumped at the slightest sound. 

“We can only fit one pelt in here,’ Lionblaze 
meowed, kneading at the fluffy folds with his paws to 
pack it down harder. 

“Then let's leave the others and go,” Bramblestar 
responded. He was beginning to wonder if this mission 
had been a good idea. J just want to get back to 
camp. 

Nudging the tub with their paws, the cats managed 
to make their way across the kitchen to the den's 
entrance. Lionblaze took the lead to jump onto the 
fence, with Poppyfrost and Cinderheart following. 

I guess I get to swim again, Bramblestar thought 
with a sigh. Taking a deep breath, he plunged into the 
water and began swimming behind the tub, pushing it 
along with his nose. The current tugged at him, while 
unseen things below the surface swiped at his furiously 
paddling legs. He had to push away the hideous 
memory of Lilypaw trapped in the ivy around the oak 
tree, and Seedpaw’s pathetic drowned body lying 
above the waterline. 


Bramblestar saw that the ground rose steeply on 
the other side of the Thunderpath, just beyond the row 
of Twoleg dens, so he pushed the tub in that direction, 
toward the closest stretch of dry ground. His 
Clanmates kept pace with him along fences and across 
the roofs of drowned monsters. 

I wish I’d never agreed to this, Bramblestar told 
himself as he struggled to keep his aching legs moving. 
I hate swimming, and I cant see why RiverClan cats 
would ever want to get their paws wet. 

At last he made it to the sloping ground and 
staggered out of the water onto the slippery, muddy 
grass. While he stood there, panting, his Clanmates 
raced over and helped him to haul up the tub that held 
the pelt. It was awkward to move, and tipped to one 
side, spilling part of the pelt out onto the ground. 

“Now it’s all muddy,’ Poppyfrost murmured, 
looking disappointed as she tried to brush off the sticky 
streaks. 

“It’s still more or less dry,” Lionblaze pointed out, 
shoving the folds back into the tub as fast as he could. 
“IP Il be fine.” 

“We did it!” Cinderheart exclaimed, her eyes 


glowing. 

Glancing around, Bramblestar realized they still had 
a stretch of water to cross before they could reach the 
lakeside and follow the shore back to their camp. At 
least we can keep our paws dry for a while on this 
bank, he thought, bounding up to the highest point to 
get a good view of their surroundings. 

On the other side of the shallow ridge, he saw a 
Twoleg den built into the slope. He was about to turn 
away again when he heard the thin wail of a cat. 
Looking more closely, he saw a dark brown she-cat 
pawing at something on the ground, close to the wall of 
the den. Her movements were frantic, matching the 
noise she was making. Bramblestar tried to hear what 
she was saying, but the wind in his ears meant he 
couldn’t make out the words. 

Oh, no! he thought. Another kittypet that needs 
rescuing! Could this one be stuck in the mud? 

For a moment Bramblestar was tempted to turn 
away and pretend he hadn’t seen. But he knew that 
the sight and sound of the distressed cat would haunt 
him if he refused to help. Bramblestar raced down the 
slope until he reached the Twoleg den, and approached 


the kittypet. “What’s wrong? Can I help?” he called. 

To his astonishment the kittypet swung around to 
face him with her lips drawn back in a snarl. “Stay out 
of this!” she meowed, giving him a shove in the chest 
to emphasize her words. 

Bramblestar stared at her. The she-cat’s amber 
gaze met his without flinching. Shes bold, for a 
kittypet! he thought, admiring her courage in spite of 
her hostility. 

The faint sound of yowling drew Bramblestar’s 
attention to the den. At ground level there was a 
narrow opening covered by transparent Twoleg stuff. 
The yowls were coming from a gray tabby tom who 
had pressed his face against the transparent barrier 
and was caterwauling for help. 

“There must be a way to get him out of there,” 
Bramblestar mewed, pawing at the gap. 

“What would you know about it, flea-pelt?” the 
kittypet hissed. 

Bramblestar felt his shoulder fur begin to bristle 
and consciously forced it to lie flat again. She's asking 
for a clawed ear! 

‘T’ve seen stuff like this before,” he replied, 


remembering the way that he and the others had got 
into the Twoleg den from the ledge while they were 
rescuing Minty. Experimentally he pressed his 
forepaws against the top of the transparent barrier, and 
let out a grunt of satisfaction as it swung mward, 
opening a narrow gap at the bottom. 

But the space wasn’t wide enough for the tabby 
tom to get out. 

“Press harder,” the she-cat ordered, adding her 
weight to Bramblestar’s. “Frankie, you push from the 
bottom.” 

With all three cats heaving, the gap opened up and 
the tabby tom, Frankie, was able to squeeze out. His 
pelt was bristling and his eyes glared with a mixture of 
fury and terror. His pelt was soaked up to his belly fur, 
and when Bramblestar peered down into the den he 
could see floodwater sloshing about just below the 
opening. 

“Thanks!” Frankie gasped. “I thought I was going 
to drown!” 

The brown she-cat’s gaze raked over Bramblestar, 
her hostility fading, though she still remained wary. 
“Yeah, thanks.” Her tone was grudging. “My name’s 


Jessy, and this is Frankie.” 

“T’m Bramblestar.” He eyed Jessy, intrigued by her 
independence and spirit. “You’re pretty brave, for a 
kittypet.” 

“Really?” Jessy’s tail lashed. “Well, you keep a 
pretty civil tongue in your head, for a wild cat.” 

Bramblestar was looking for a retort when he 
heard paw steps approaching from behind and turned 
to see the rest of his patrol running down the slope. 

Lionblaze halted a couple of tail-lengths away, his 
eyes wide with shock. “Great StarClan!” he 
exclaimed. “More kittypets!” 





CHAPTER 15 
de 


S 


Bramblestar surveyed the kittypets more closely. 
Jessy looked in fairly good shape, but Frankie’s fur 
was wet and clumped, his ribs were showing, and he 
was shivering. 

“Jessy, have you seen Benny?” the tabby asked 
urgently. “I saw him get washed away when the water 
came. I couldn’t reach him!” 

Jessy shook her head. “No, I haven’t. I’m sorry.” 

Frankie spun around to face Bramblestar and the 
rest of the patrol, his eyes wide and distraught. “Have 
you seen him?” he demanded. “He’s my brother—he’s 
tabby like me, but darker.” 

“No, sorry,’ Bramblestar replied. “Look,” he 
added, reluctant to offer more help to kittypets, but 
aware that he couldn’t just leave them, “why don’t you 
come back to our camp? There’s food there, and—” 

“No!” Frankie exclaimed, backing away with his 
ears flattened. “I have to stay here, in case Benny 
comes back.” 

Bramblestar exchanged glances with his patrol. 


They were all looking uncomfortable and impatient. 
“We can’t hang around here,” he meowed to Jessy. 
“But we’d like to help. Can you persuade Frankie to 
come with us? He looks ill, and there are cats in our 
camp who can help him.” 

Jessy gave him a thoughtful nod and padded up to 
Frankie. “Are you flea-brained?” she snapped. “These 
cats just saved your life. The least you can do is come 
with them, so you can get better.” 

Bramblestar repressed a purr of amusement. /t 
hasn t taken Jessy long to start trusting us! 

Frankie’s shoulders sagged. “Okay,” he mewed in 
a small voice. 

Jessy stayed close beside him as Bramblestar led 
the way back to where he had left the tub and the pelt. 
“What are you doing?” she exclaimed, giving the 
Twoleg stuff a sniff. “You stole this tub and blanket 
from the Twolegs? I have to say, wild cat, I like your 
style!” 

“Whatever,” Bramblestar muttered, feeling 
embarrassed. 

Lionblaze and Cinderheart pushed the tub along in 
the shallow water while the rest of the patrol padded 


beside them, dry-pawed. Jessy stayed close to Frankie, 
quietly encouraging him when his paw steps faltered. 

Eventually the cats reached the end of the bank 
and the stretch of water that extended from the lake. 
Bramblestar gazed at it in dismay. A strong current 
flowed into the lake, but water was surging from the 
other direction too, and where the two currents met the 
floodwater tossed about in choppy waves. 

“Its too dangerous to swim across here,” 
Cinderheart warned. 

“Why don’t we see if we can get closer to the 
lake?” Poppyfrost suggested. “The water’s quieter 
there, where we crossed before.” 

Bramblestar nodded. “Good idea.” 

But as they began hauling the tub along the edge of 
the turbulent water, Cinderheart stopped with her ears 
pricked. “Wait—listen! What's that?” 

Every cat halted. Bramblestar heard a faint 
buzzing noise. “It sounds like a monster,’ he 
murmured. “But there haven’t been any monsters 
around here since the water rose.” 

“Only the drowned ones,” Lionblaze agreed. 

A few more moments passed, and Bramblestar 


was about to give the order to move on, when 
Cinderheart exclaimed, “There it is!” 

Following where her tail was pointing, Bramblestar 
spotted a water monster with two Twolegs standing on 
its back as it swam back and forth across the flooded 
Thunderpath. They seemed to be looking into each of 
the Twoleg dens. 

“That settles it,” he hissed. “We can’t go that way. 
We can’t let them see us.” 

Wearily they retraced their steps to where the two 
currents met. “We’ll have to cross here,” Bramblestar 
announced. 

His Clanmates exchanged glances; Bramblestar 
could see them bracing themselves for the ordeal 
ahead. Jessy’s tailtip was twitching apprehensively, 
but she didn’t protest. 

Frankie, however, had flattened himself close to 
the ground, trembling, his eyes glazed with terror. “T 
can’t... .” he moaned. “I saw Benny get swept away. 
I know Pll drown!” 

‘T'I help you,” Jessy began, but the tabby tom only 
moaned more loudly and began backing away from the 
water’s edge. 


Jessy turned to Bramblestar, letting out a soft hiss 
of frustration through her teeth. “We can’t leave him 
here,” she mewed. “What if we put him into the tub 
with the blanket?” 

Bramblestar thought the idea sounded crazy, but 
there was no alternative. They couldn’t hang around 
much longer on this side of the water, in case the 
Twolegs saw them. “We’ll give it a try,” he agreed. 

Jessy went up to Frankie and nudged him. “Come 
on, Frankie. We’re going to give you a ride.” She 
explained her suggestion to the terrified tom. “You'll 
die if you stay here,” she finished dramatically. 

Dumb with fear, Frankie allowed Jessy to shove 
him over to the tub. He climbed in on top of the pelt, 
digging his claws hard into the folds. Bramblestar and 
Lionblaze pushed the tub onto the turbulent water and 
waded in after it. The force of the current nearly 
knocked Bramblestar off his paws, and he drew in his 
breath in a gasp of terror. There's no turning back 
now. 

The other cats followed as they began to swim. All 
Bramblestar could see was the tub, the swirling water, 
and Lionblaze’s drenched golden head beside him. 


Then Cinderheart appeared a taillength away. 
“Steer over this way,” she panted. “It’s not far now.” 

As Bramblestar tried to turn, a wave slapped 
against the side of the tub. It lurched over, and Frankie 
let out a terrified screech as water slopped inside tt. 
Lionblaze managed to give the tub a shove, righting it 
and sending it on its new course. At the same moment 
Poppyfrost’s head appeared among the waves, bobbing 
up and down as she swam right into the path of the 
tub. 

“Poppyfrost, look out!” Bramblestar yowled. 

The tortoiseshell she-cat, focused on struggling 
through the waves, hadn’t seen that the tub had 
changed course. She turned at Bramblestar’s yowl and 
her eyes widened in terror as she saw the tub bearing 
down on her. She thrashed her legs faster, and 
Bramblestar tried to thrust the tub aside, but it was too 
late. The side of it knocked into Poppyfrost, driving her 
under the surface of the water. 

Bramblestar took a gulp of air and dived down, 
dark thoughts of Seedpaw’s death flickering through 
his mind. Would he even find his Clanmate in this 
swollen river? He wanted to let out a screech of joy 


when he bumped into Poppyfrost’s body. He grabbed 
her and hauled her back to the surface. 

Poppyfrost was still conscious, writhing and 
coughing up water. “Thanks, Bramblestar,” she gasped 
after a few moments. “I’m okay. I can swim.” 

Bramblestar was reluctant to let her go, but just 
then he caught sight of Cinderheart paddling up to 
them. 

“PI swim beside her,” the gray she-cat mewed. 
“TIl make sure she’s okay.” 

Bramblestar swam back to the tub, which was 
riding lower in the water. Frankie was peering over the 
edge, letting out terrified whimpers. Bramblestar joined 
Lionblaze in pushing, and spotted Jessy still swimming 
strongly a fox-length away. 

“We’re nearly there!” the brown kittypet called. 

At last Bramblestar felt the tub scrape against solid 
ground, and realized that he could lower his paws and 
stand. He and Lionblaze dragged the tub to the very 
edge of the water so that Frankie could crawl out. The 
tabby tom looked stunned, as if he didn’t know where 
he was or what was happening anymore. 

Looking down into the tub, Bramblestar saw that 


the pelt was soaked through with the water that had 
splashed in during the crossing. I’ve risked all our 
lives for a wet pelt and two homeless kittypets, he 
thought with mingled disgust and guilt. 

He took the lead as the patrol headed back through 
ShadowClan territory, still pushing the tub containing 
the pelt along at the edge of the floodwater. They 
figured it was easy to keep the pelt where it was, to 
keep it from getting even muddier. 

Suddenly Poppyfrost, who was bringing up the 
rear, called out, “I can smell ShadowClan!” 

Bramblestar stopped and tasted the air. The scent 
was strong and fresh, and getting stronger, telling him 
that several ShadowClan cats were approaching. 
Swiftly he shoved the tub into the shelter of a bramble 
thicket. 

“Climb trees!” he ordered in a low voice. 

Cinderheart and Poppyfrost obeyed instantly, 
streaking up the trunk of the nearest pine tree and 
peering down from its branches. 

Lionblaze hesitated. “You think they”Il be hostile?” 
he asked. 

“We're on their territory, with <ittypets,” 


Bramblestar retorted. “What do you think?” 

“Good point,” Lionblaze muttered. 

Bramblestar turned to Jessy. “Can you climb?” 

“Yes, PI be fine, but Frankie won't.” 

The gray tabby tom had slumped into a sodden 
bundle of misery at the foot of a tree. Jessy bounded 
over and nudged him. “Frankie, wake up! You have to 
climb!” 

“Leave me alone!” 

Bramblestar tasted the air again and realized that 
the ShadowClan patrol would reach them in a few 
heartbeats. He knew that if he left Frankie where he 
was, the ShadowClan cats would try to drive him off, 
and probably injure him badly if he couldn’t run away 
fast enough. 

“Jessy, climb the tree,” he ordered. “Lionblaze and 
I will help Frankie.” 

To his relief the she-cat didn’t argue. She clawed 
her way up the trunk, clumsily but fast, and joined 
Cinderheart and Poppyfrost in the branches. 

Bramblestar turned to Lionblaze. “You push and 
PI pull” he meowed. 

Grabbing Frankie by the scruff, Bramblestar dug 


his claws into the trunk of the pine tree. It felt like 
hauling a piece of dead prey, although Frankie was 
heavier than even the biggest squirrel. Lionblaze 
boosted him from below, and gradually they began to 
climb. 

Bramblestar’s belly churned because they were 
taking so long to reach the denser branches, where 
they would be hidden. Frankie wasn’t even trying to 
help himself; he seemed paralyzed by fear. As they 
forced themselves higher, Bramblestar could hear 
racing paw steps and the sounds of cats brushing 
through undergrowth. 

They must have seen us! 

Panting, he dragged Frankie onto the closest 
branch. Lionblaze joined them a moment later, and the 
dark pine needles enfolded them. Peering down, 
Bramblestar saw the ShadowClan patrol burst out of 
the bushes. Crowfrost was in the lead, with Pinenose, 
Ferretclaw, and his apprentice, Spikepaw. 

For a heartbeat Bramblestar expected them to 
surround the tree and yowl out a challenge. Instead 
they just dashed on, passing right under the tree 
without picking up the ThunderClan or kittypet scent. 


Their fur was bristling and their eyes were wide with 
tension, darting here and there as they ran. 

“What’s wrong with them?” Lionblaze whispered, 
staring after the ShadowClan patrol. “They’re not 
hunting, or checking scent markers.” 

“Who knows?” Bramblestar meowed tiredly. “At 
least they didn’t spot us. Now, help me get Frankie 
down off this branch.” 


By the time the cats reached the ThunderClan 
border they were all wet and exhausted. 

“This is where we live,’ Bramblestar told Jessy 
and Frankie. 

“Here? Really?” Jessy sounded incredulous as she 
gazed around. 

Bramblestar could understand the  kittypet's 
disbelief. The territory looks so different since the 
storm. Everywhere had the harsh tang of the sun- 
drown-water, and even the trees that were clear of the 
flood looked sick. Bramblestar wished he could show 
his home to Jessy on a sunny day in greenleaf, with 
leaves rustling above and the warm scent of prey in 
every thicket. 


They had abandoned the tub at the edge of the 
lake because it was too awkward to push through the 
undergrowth. Poppyfrost and Lionblaze dragged the 
pelt between them as the patrol headed for the tunnel. 
By now it was wet, filthy, and stinking, and kept tearing 
when it caught on concealed roots or sharp stones. 

As they approached the makeshift camp, 
Bramblestar spotted several cats outside the tunnel and 
saw their looks of shock as they realized that he was 
bringing more kittypets to join them. 

Jayfeather, who had been supervising Briarlight’s 
exercises, came to meet the returning patrol. “What’s 
this?” he demanded, giving Jessy and Frankie a 
disdainful sniff. “Are you turning ThunderClan into a 
home for lost kittypets?” 

Bramblestar glared at his medicine cat; even 
though he knew he was adding to the Clan’s problems, 
he thought Jayfeather could have sounded more 
welcoming. “They needed our help,’ he retorted. 
“Frankie especially. Do you have anything to calm him 
down?” 

Jayfeather heaved a deep sigh. “Like I don’t have 
enough to do. Okay, I’Il take a look.” He trotted back 


to the tunnel entrance and vanished. Soon he 
reappeared with a bundle of thyme leaves in his jaws. 
“Here,” he mewed to Frankie, dropping the leaves in 
front of him. “Eat these. They’re good for shock. 
When you’re feeling better, P’ Il give you poppy seed so 
you can sleep.” 

Frankie sniffed the leaves and took a step back, 
curling his lip. “I don’t eat green stuff,” he mewed. 

Jayfeather shrugged. “Okay, so suffer. Your 
choice.” 

“You should eat them,” Cinderheart urged him. 
“They really will make you feel better.” 

Frankie still hesitated until Jessy gave him a hard 
nudge. “Eat, flea-brain.” 

Still reluctant, Frankie licked up the leaves and 
swallowed them, then kept passing his tongue over his 
jaws as if he was trying to get rid of the taste. 

Bramblestar realized that Squirrelflight had padded 
up beside him and was surveying the kittypets with a 
disapproving gaze. “Honestly, Bramblestar,’ she 
meowed, “what were you thinking? Two more 
kittypets! How are we going to feed all these extra 
mouths? It’s not like they can hunt for themselves.” 


“Would you rather I left them behind to die?” 
Bramblestar asked. 

Squirrelflight rolled her eyes. “No, I suppose not. 
But it’s not making life any easier. Did you at least 
bring back something useful?” 

“There’s this Twoleg pelt,’ Bramblestar meowed, 
pointing with his tail at the sodden object Lionblaze and 
Poppyfrost had dragged up. 

“That?” Squirrelflight wrinkled her nose. “You 
went all that way and put your Clanmates in danger for 
that? It’s disgusting!” 

“No, it might not be so bad,” Daisy mewed, looking 
up from where she and Leafpool were sniffing the 
pelt. “We can stretch it over a bush to dry it.” 

Squirrelflight just let out a snort. 

Even though Bramblestar had to agree with her, he 
was hurt by his deputy’s dismissiveness. Before he 
could reply, Jessy pushed her way forward. 

“Who do you think you are?” she snarled at 
Squirrelflight. “You should be grateful to Bramblestar. 
He risked his life to get that!” 

Squirrelflight seemed too taken aback to match the 
kittypet’s aggressiveness. “I know how brave 


Bramblestar is,” she responded, then added, “I’m going 
to sort out patrols. Bramblestar, you need to rest and 
eat.” 

Jessy watched Squirrelflight as she stalked off. 
“Wow, is she always like that?” 

“Yeah, pretty much,” Bramblestar replied. 

Jessy went over to join Frankie, who was still 
shivering. Minty poked her head out of the tunnel, then 
picked her way carefully over the muddy ground to 
touch noses with the other two kittypets. It seemed as 
if they already knew one another, but it was hardly a 
joy-filled reunion. 

“Thanks for getting the pelt.” Graystripe had 
padded up while Bramblestar was watching the 
kittypets. “It looks like the floods are more dangerous 
than we realized,’ he commented with a nod at the 
three. 

Bramblestar murmured in agreement. All three 
kittypets were huddled together, small and hunched 
against the wind. Even Jessy looked out of place and 
miserable. What are we going to do with them? 
Bramblestar wondered. 





CHAPTER 16 
te 


S 


Bramblestar woke from a restless sleep, feeling the 
cold of the tunnel floor striking through his pelt all the 
way to his bones. Staggering to his paws, he picked his 
way among his sleeping Clanmates until he could slip 
past the mudfall and into the open. He padded forward 
a couple of tail-lengths and stood watching as the sky 
paled toward dawn and the last warriors of StarClan 
winked out. 

A light rain was falling, swept across the forest by 
a chilly breeze, but the cloud cover seemed thinner, as 
if the storm might be over at last. Looking downward 
through the trees, Bramblestar could just make out the 
silver shimmer of the lake. Behind him in the shadowy 
tunnel he could hear rasping coughs coming from 
Amberpaw. Another cat stirred and muttered 
something grumpily. 

“Here, Amberpaw.” Bramblestar’s ears twitched 
at Leafpool’s whispered words. “Have a drink from 
this wet moss. It should help your throat.” 

A loud snore drowned any response from 


Amberpaw. Purdy, Bramblestar thought, pleased that 
the old cat was getting some rest. But his relief died 
away a moment later as he heard a whimper from 
deeper in the tunnel. 

“Seedpaw . . . I want Seedpaw.” 

“Im here, Lilypaw.” That was Dewpaw, his voice 
comforting. “Lie closer to me. Seedpaw’s in StarClan 
now.” 

Bramblestar’s heart felt as heavy as a rock. Too 
many cats have been lost. .. . There are too many 
scratches on the Stick of the Fallen. And now the 
stick itself had caused the death of a young apprentice. 
Urgent questions swept through Bramblestar’s mind 
like leaves driven by the wind. Will the waters ever 
recede? Will the Clans be forced to look for yet 
another home? What would Firestar have done? 

He was still vainly searching for answers in his 
thoughts when he heard soft paw steps behind him. 
Glancing over his shoulder, he saw Jessy emerge from 
the tunnel, shivering as the rain spattered against her 
pelt. J bet Firestar wouldnt have filled the Clan 
with kittypet mouths to feed, he thought ruefully. 

Jessy’s jaws gaped in a yawn; her tail was 


drooping, and she was clearly tired. Her gaze darted 
from side to side as she left the safety of the tunnel. 
But her paw steps were firm as she walked over to 
stand beside Bramblestar. 

“You don’t live in this tunnel all the time, do you?” 
she asked curiously. 

“No, our real camp is much better than this,” 
Bramblestar replied. “Do you want to see it? I could 
show you some of the territory if you like.” We’ll be 
back before patrols have to go out, he told himself, 
feeling slightly guilty at the thought of going off alone. 
And we could both do with a brisk run to warm up. 

“Okay,” Jessy agreed. “Lead the way, wild cat.” 

As they headed down the slope toward the stone 
hollow, Bramblestar realized that Jessy was stumbling 
over roots and bramble tendrils. She winced and let out 
a startled yelp as water showered over her from the 
low branch of a hazel bush. 

“Are you okay?” he called. “We can go back if 
you want.” 

“T’m fine,” Jessy insisted, giving her pelt a shake. 

Bramblestar was half-amused and half-impressed 
by her determination. She 5 not like any kittypet I’ve 


ever met before. 

Reaching the top of the cliff, Bramblestar pushed 
through the brambles, leaving a tunnel for Jessy to 
follow, until they could look down into the flooded 
hollow. “You see that ledge with the hole in the rock?” 
he meowed, pointing with his tail to where the 
Highledge was just visible above the water. “That’s the 
Clan leader’s den. . . my den, now. Just below it, but a 
bit closer to us, used to be the warriors’ den. The 
apprentices’ den and the nursery were over the other 
side. The elders’—” 

“Wow!” Jessy interrupted, her eyes wide. “You’re 
really well organized!” 

“We have to look after ourselves,” Bramblestar 
meowed. “We can’t rely on Twolegs out here.” 

Annoyance flashed briefly in Jessy’s eyes. “Just 
because we’re kittypets doesn’t mean we’re weak and 
lazy,” she retorted. 

“I never said it did.” To avoid an argument 
Bramblestar retreated from the cliff edge and 
beckoned with his tail. “Do you want to see some 
more of our territory?” 

He led the way along the top of the floodwater 


” 


toward the WindClan border. Jessy padded at his 
shoulder. She seemed to have forgotten her irritation, 
instead gazing around her with interest, though she still 
tended to jump at the creaking of a branch or the 
sucking sound of water as it lapped against the slope. 

Soon Bramblestar heard the rushing of the stream 
that marked the border, and his nose twitched at a 
strong scent of WindClan. Emerging from the trees, he 
spotted four cats heading downstream on the 
ThunderClan side: the WindClan deputy, Harespring, 
with his apprentice, Slightpaw, along with Crowfeather 
and Heathertail. 

Bramblestar stiffened with rage. The WindClan 
warriors were blatantly trespassing. They're so 
determined to keep the fresh water to themselves! 
He knew he couldn’t confront the WindClan cats when 
he was out here alone except for a kittypet. “Let’s go 
this way,” he suggested, thankful that Jessy didn’t 
seem to have noticed the patrol, and steered her away 
toward the top of the ridge. 

Jessy followed, keeping on determinedly even 
though she started puffing as they headed up the steep 
hillside. When they reached the ridge, the brown she- 


cat’s eyes stretched wide with amazement at the view 
over the flooded lake and the remains of the forest. 

“It's amazing up here! I feel like a bird! I didn’t 
realize how far the water stretches,” she added more 
seriously. “Look, that’s my housefolk’s den over there. 
The floods are all around it.” 

Bramblestar wasn’t sure which of the Twoleg dens 
she was pointing at. They all looked the same to him, 
poking up out of the waste of water. 

“T used to like hunting in the backyard,” Jessy went 
on, “and in Frankie and Benny’s yard. Theirs was the 
best—full of thick bushes!” 

By now Bramblestar was feeling colder than ever, 
and anxious to get back to the camp after spotting the 
WindClan patrol on the wrong side of the stream. “Yes, 
but you didn’t really hunt, did you?” he mewed. “It’s 
not like you needed to catch your own food. I bet you 
never caught a thing.” 

“Catching your own food doesn’t make you better 
than me,” Jessy snapped. “Stop being so smug. No cat 
can help where they’ re born!” 

Bramblestar was taken aback by the strength of 
feeling in her tone and her blazing eyes. “Okay, you 


have a point,” he admitted. “You know,” he went on, 
hoping to make it up to her, “our last leader, Firestar, 
was a kittypet. He came into the forest when he was 
six moons old, and he was the best cat in the forest. 
Every cat in ThunderClan misses him.” His voice 
shook on the last few words. 

Jessy’s anger faded. “Really? I wish I’d had a 
chance to meet him.” 

“I wish you had, too,” Bramblestar responded, 
sadness washing over him as he realized how 
impossible that was. /'d give every bit of prey in the 
forest to have Firestar back. 


” 


When he and Jessy returned to the tunnel, 
Bramblestar found the cats milling about outside while 
Squirrelflight sorted out the first patrols of the day. 

“Where have you been?” she demanded, swinging 
around to confront Bramblestar. Her green eyes 
sparked with annoyance. 

“T took Jessy for a walk, to show her some of the 
territory,’ Bramblestar explained. 

Squirrelflight curled her lip. “If Jessy wants to see 
the territory, she can join a patrol!” 


Irritation sparked beneath Bramblestar’s fur. Am 1 
Clan leader or arent I? “I can walk where I like, and 
with any cat I like,” he retorted. 

Squirrelflight said no more, but her shoulder fur 
was bristling, and Bramblestar felt as if the air 
between them had become as cold as ice. “Dovewing, 
Lionblaze,” she meowed, ignoring Bramblestar, “take a 
patrol each and check the ShadowClan border. Start at 
opposite ends and meet in the middle —and make sure 
the scent marks are good and strong,” she finished. 

Lionblaze dipped his head. “Which cats should we 
take?” 

“Let's see . . .” Squirrelflight glanced around. 
“Blossomfall, Dustpelt, and Birchfall can go with you. 
Dovewing, take Spiderleg,  Brightheart, and 
Cherryfall.” 

Unseen by his deputy, Bramblestar gave a nod of 
approval. She was right to double the patrols on the 
ShadowClan border. We cant trust those cats to stay 
inside their own markers, and we know how badly 
their territory has been affected! 

“TI help by going on patrol if you like,” Frankie 
offered, padding up to stand beside Squirrelflight. 


Bramblestar twitched his whiskers in surprise. The 
gray tabby tom was looking brighter and more 
determined this morning, very different from the 
shrinking, moaning creature who had come to the 
camp the night before. Good job, Jayfeather! Your 
herbs have really helped him. 

Glancing at the gathering patrols, Bramblestar 
realized that all the warriors looked distinctly 
unimpressed at the idea of Frankie taking part. “No, 
thanks, Frankie,’ he meowed. “It’s a bit soon for that. 
Get some rest today, and we’ll find you something to 
do soon.” 

“Patrolling with a kittypet?” Blossomfall muttered. 
“I'd sooner eat fox dung!” 

“Yeah,” Spiderleg agreed. “He’d really scare 
ShadowClan.” 

Bramblestar glared at them, hoping that Frankie 
hadn’t heard. “The sick cats shouldn’t go out,” he 
mewed to Squirrelflight as the ShadowClan patrols 
moved off. “Sandstorm and Amberpaw need to rest 
and stay dry.” 

Squirrelflight nodded, her previous annoyance 
seemingly forgotten. “Mousewhisker has started 


coughing,” she reported. “And Berrynose is looking 
pretty sorry himself. I think they should stay in camp, 
too.” She flicked her tail toward the tunnel entrance, 
where Berrynose was crouched miserably, his cream- 
colored fur ungroomed. Poppyfrost sat beside him, 
giving his ears a comforting lick. 

“Okay, fine,’ Bramblestar meowed, trying to push 
down a swell of anxiety. How many more of us will 
get sick before this is over? 

“I'm going to lead a patrol along the WindClan 
border,” Squirrelflight went on. “Poppyfrost, Cloudtail, 
and Thornclaw, you can come with me.” 

Poppyfrost quickly said good-bye to Berrynose. 
She and the other cats gathered around Squirrelflight 
and set out. They had gone several fox-lengths down 
the slope before Bramblestar remembered what he 
had seen that morning. 

“Hey, Squirrelflight, hold on a moment!” he called. 

Squirrelflight turned and padded back up the slope 
toward him. “What?” 

“When I was out with Jessy I spotted a WindClan 
patrol on our side of the stream,” Bramblestar told her. 
“You should keep a lookout for—” 


“What, you only think to tell us that now?” 
Squirrelflight’s tail lashed and her green eyes narrowed 
in fury. “There are trespassers on our territory and it 
slipped your mind?” 

Bramblestar forced his neck fur to lie flat, knowing 
that his deputy had some reason for her anger. / 
should have come straight back here and sent out a 
patrol. 

“Those crow-food eaters! How dare they?” 
Thornclaw exclaimed, following Squirrelflight back up 
the slope. 

“Let’s chase them off!” Ivypool hissed, coming to 
join her Clanmates with Bumblestripe just behind. 

“They’re probably back in their own camp by 
now,” Squirrelflight snapped with another flick of her 
tail. 

“You know,” Bumblestripe began thoughtfully, 
“they must have had trouble crossing the stream. Now 
that it’s flooded, it’s too wide to jump across for the 
whole length of the border, and the current is far too 
strong for them to swim. They must be crossing 
farther up. If we could find the place, there might be a 
way to guard or block it.” 


“That's a great idea,” Bramblestar mewed. “PI 
lead a patrol upstream right away and check it out. 
You can come with me to investigate, Bumblestripe, 
and you too, Ivypool.” 

‘TIl get Snowpaw,” Ivypool mewed, racing back to 
the tunnel mouth and calling for her apprentice. 

“Can I come too?” Jessy asked, bright-eyed. 
When Bramblestar hesitated, unsure about taking a 
kittypet on what could be a dangerous patrol, she 
added, “Pd like to help, and I know I can’t hunt.” 
Blinking, she shot him a look of exaggerated 
innocence, and Bramblestar knew she was reminding 
him of their earlier conversation. 

“Okay,” he agreed. “But do exactly what I tell 

you.” 
Squirrelflight looked annoyed at the addition of the 
kittypet; then Bramblestar reflected that perhaps she 
was just worried about the invasion. ‘Pll take my 
patrol to the bottom of the stream and we’ll work our 
way up,” she meowed. “If we meet the trespassers, 
we'll chase them off.” 

“Oh, yes,” Thornclaw added, baring his teeth in a 
snarl. 


“If you find the crossing place,” Squirrelflight went 
on to Bramblestar, “you should hide there and let the 
WindClan cats go back to their own territory. Then do 
what you can to block it.” 

“Right,” Bramblestar responded, feeling amused. 
Just who's Clan leader here? He waited until 
Squirrelflight had left at the head of her patrol, and 
Ivypool had returned with Snowpaw, who was 
bouncing excitedly at the thought of tackling WindClan. 

“Stay close to your mentor,” Bramblestar warned 
him. He wasn't sure it was wise to add an apprentice 
to the group. Still Snowpaw can look after himself 
better than Jessy. He was about to set out when he 
heard his name being called, and spotted Jayfeather 
emerging from the tunnel. Bramblestar waited for his 
medicine cat to cross the wet grass to his side. 

“Bramblestar, be careful”? Jayfeather mewed 
breathlessly. 

“Have you had another dream?” Bramblestar 
demanded. “Another omen?” 

Jayfeather shook his head, looking troubled. “T just 
don’t want to risk any more lives.” 

Bramblestar guessed that Jayfeather was feeling 


distressed by the way that he had failed to interpret the 
warnings about the Stick of the Fallen. “Don’t worry,” 
he reassured the medicine cat. “We’ll be careful. I 
don’t want to lose any more cats, either.” 


Bramblestar and his patrol trekked up to the ridge, 
then trudged along the top toward the swollen stream. 
Once out of the shelter of the trees, the wind blustered 
around them, flattening their pelts to their sides, and 
rain flicked in their faces. Though he kept halting to 
look and listen for WindClan cats, Bramblestar couldn’t 
pick up any trace of them, not even a whiff of their 
scent. But from here there was no clear view down to 
the lake. That patrol could be anywhere. 

When they reached the stream, Bramblestar 
detected WindClan scent along the bank; it was fairly 
fresh, as if it might have been left by the patrol he had 
seen earlier. “They came this way,” he meowed. “So 
they must have crossed farther up. Let’s go.” 

Before they had traveled many more fox-lengths, 
they crossed ther own border scent markers. 
Bramblestar’s paws tingled as he led his patrol out of 
Clan territory. 


“This is the way to the Moonpool,” Snowpaw 
informed Jessy, pattermg along beside her. “I wish I 
could go there. It sounds so cool!” 

“What's the Moonpool?” Jessy asked. 

“All the medicine cats go there,’ Snowpaw told 
her. He seemed delighted to be teaching a cat who 
knew even less about the forest than he did. “That’s 
where they meet with StarClan.” 

Jessy opened her jaws to ask another question, but 
Snowpaw forestalled her. “StarClan are the spirits of 
our dead ancestors,” he informed her. “They tell 
medicine cats omens and stuff.” 

Jessy blinked and shot Bramblestar a glance full of 
confusion. “StarClan? Dead cats?” 

“Shh.” Bramblestar raised his tail to silence them. 
“There might be WindClan cats about.” 

The patrol’s pace slowed as the ground became 
rockier. The stream was still fast flowing and overfull, 
but narrower here as it cut through a deeper channel. 
Bramblestar began to think it might be possible to leap 
over it. Though I wouldnt want to try it, he thought 
with a shiver as he watched the roiling water. 

Ivypool had bounded ahead of the rest of the 


patrol. Suddenly she turned back, gesturing with her 
tail. “Come and see this!” she called. 

Bramblestar picked up the pace until he reached 
Ivypool’s side and saw a fallen tree wedged across the 
stream. The flood must have washed it down from 
the mountains, he realized. The current had thrown 
debris against the tree on both sides of the stream, and 
water was breaking over the top, but Bramblestar had 
no doubt that this was the crossing place. The whole 
area reeked of WindClan scent. 

“Those impudent rabbit-chasers!” Ivypool 
exclaimed. “Now what are we going to do?” 





CHAPTER 17 
de 


S 


“We have to dislodge the tree,’ Bramblestar mused, 
examining it carefully. He couldn’t imagine how they 
were going to manage that; the trunk was firmly 
wedged among the rocks on both sides of the stream. 

“PI take a closer look,” Jessy meowed, leaping 
onto the trunk and running confidently along it. 

Bramblestar admired how light-pawed and nimble 
she was, realizing she must have had practice walking 
along the fence-tops by the Twoleg dens. His 
Clanmates looked a bit startled, though they said 
nothing. 

“Dovewing told me how she and the others 
dislodged the beaver dam,” Ivypool told Bramblestar 
as they waited for Jessy to return. “It sounds as if it 
must have been similar to this. But they waded into the 
stream and attacked the dam from the bottom. The 
water here is too deep and fast flowing for us to do 
that.” 

Bramblestar nodded. “We can’t risk—” 

“Bramblestar!” Bumblestripe broke in. “I can smell 


WindClan cats. They’re coming this way.” 

Turning away from the tree trunk, Bramblestar 
parted his jaws to taste the air. Bumblestripe was right. 
He drew in fresh WindClan scent, growing stronger 
with every heartbeat. And it was on their side of the 
stream. “Hide!” he ordered. “Jessy, get back here!” 

While the brown kittypet ran back along the tree 
trunk, Ivypool and Snowpaw dived into the shelter of 
the rocks. Bumblestripe flattened himself underneath a 
low-growing thorn bush, and Bramblestar shoved Jessy 
in beside him. She peered out at him, wide-eyed with 
excitement at the sudden crisis. 

“They'll see my white fur!” Snowpaw gasped 
from behind a rock. 

“No, they won’t.” Bramblestar threw himself 
down on top of the apprentice, who wriggled 
underneath him and stuck his head out, gasping for 
breath. 

Cautiously Bramblestar craned his neck to see 
around the rock. The WindClan patrol he had seen 
earlier was heading up the stream, panting and 
scrambling over the stones. Squirrelflight and her patrol 
were bounding after them, screeching. Harespring 


skidded to a stop beside the tree trunk and turned to 
face the pursuing ThunderClan patrol while the other 
three WindClan cats ran across the log. All of them 
looked disheveled, as if the ThunderClan cats had 
given them a few swipes, but no cat was seriously 
hurt. Once his Clanmates were across safely, 
Harespring sprang after them, with a final hiss at 
Squirrelflight and her warriors. 

Bramblestar waited until the WindClan patrol had 
vanished downstream, heading back toward their own 
territory, then emerged from hiding. The rest of his 
patrol followed to meet Squirrelflight and her cats 
beside the stream. To his relief, all of Squirrelflight’s 
patrol seemed unhurt, except for Thornclaw, who was 
dabbing at a scratch on his muzzle. Actually, they 
looked better than they had for days, energized by the 
skirmish that had driven off the rival Clan. 

“They won’t come back in a hurry,” Squirrelflight 
mewed, twitching her whiskers in satisfaction. 

“Let’s hope not,” Bramblestar responded. “But to 
make sure of it, we have to move this tree.” 

To his surprise, Ivypool and Jessy already had their 
heads together, thinking of ways to shift the temporary 


bridge. 

“We can’t break the tree trunk, or chew through 
it,” Ivypool muttered. 

Jessy nodded. “Suppose we dislodge all this 
rubbish that’s piled up against it,” she suggested. “Then 
the extra force of the current might wash the log 
away.” 

“That might work. . . .” Ivypool sounded doubtful. 
“But where would we stand to do it? Besides, that 
would mean at least one cat being stuck over the other 
side.” 

“Then we have to dislodge just one end,” 
Bramblestar meowed, padding over to join the 
discussion. “That way, the whole thing might fall into 
the stream.” 

“Okay, let’s give it a try,’ Cloudtail mewed 
impatiently. 

All the cats clustered together and tried to push the 
end of the log. But there wasn’t enough room on the 
bank for all of them to reach and add their strength. 
The log didn’t move. 

Jessy leaped down onto the collection of twigs and 
debris washed up by the stream, to try pushing from 


there, but it rocked alarmingly under her paws. Panic 
rushed through Bramblestar as he saw her stagger, 
about to lose her balance and fall into the torrent. 
Leaning over precariously, he grabbed her by the 
scruff and hauled her back to the bank. 

“Thanks!” Jessy gasped. 

“I wont lose another cat to the floods,” 
Bramblestar meowed grimly. 

Jessy looked up at him. “But you’ve already seen 
me swim,” she reminded him, “and I managed just 
fine.” 

“Actually, that was a good idea,” Squirrelflight told 
Jessy, turning away from the tree trunk. “If we could 
strengthen that twiggy stuff so we could stand on it, 
then we could give the log a bigger shove than we can 
from the bank.” 

“Then let's look for something to do that,” 
Bramblestar mewed. As the group of cats scattered in 
different directions, he added to Jessy, “Stay close to 
me, just in case.” 

“In case of what?” Jessy asked with a gleam in 
her eyes. 

“Anything,” Bramblestar muttered. 


The bleak moorland didn’t seem to offer much that 
would be useful. A few rocks jutted out here and there 
from the rough grass, but they were far too big to 
move into the stream. Bramblestar was beginning to 
think that they would have to trek back into the forest 
to fetch bracken when he heard Cloudtail’s voice 
calling him. 

“Bramblestar! We found something!” 

Bramblestar bounded back to the stream to find 
Cloudtail and Poppyfrost waiting for him. “What is it?” 
he asked, glancing around; he couldn’t see anything. 

“There’s a huge bush upstream,’ Poppyfrost 
reported as the other cats came racing to join them. “It 
must have been uprooted and washed up on the bank.” 

“If we could drag it down here, it could be enough 
for all of us to stand on,” Cloudtail added. 

“Let’s take a look,’ Bramblestar meowed. He led 
the way upstream until they came to a hawthorn bush 
with dense, prickly branches, caught between two 
rocks at the edge of the stream. 

“Oh, great!” Thornclaw sighed. “I’m really looking 
forward to putting my paws on that!” 

Working together, the ThunderClan cats managed 


to haul the bush out of the water and began dragging it 
down the slope toward the log. Before they had gone 
many paw steps, Jessy leaped back with a yelp. 

“What's the matter?” Bramblestar puffed. 

“A branch poked me in the eye,” Jessy explained, 
blinking rapidly. “But I’m fine. Let’s just get on with 
it.” 

As the slope grew steeper, the bush began to 
slither down under its own weight. Bumblestripe had to 
dart quickly out of the way to avoid being crushed by 
It. 

“Stop it!” Cloudtail yowled. “If it slides past the 
tree, we’ ll never drag it up again!” 

Bramblestar leaped at the bush from the side, 
letting all his weight fall onto the outermost branches 
and wincing as the prickles drove into his pads. Ivypool 
thrust herself in next to him, trying to help, while 
Squirrelflight and Thornclaw did the same at the other 
side. Their efforts slowed the bush down, but it still 
didn’t stop. Poppyfrost, Bumblestripe, and Jessy vainly 
tugged at it from the back, and even Snowpaw dug in 
his small claws. Bramblestar looked up to see that the 
tree trunk was very close. 


We’ll slip past it for sure. Fox dung! 

With heartbeats to spare, Cloudtail raced around to 
the front of the bush and stood bracing himself on the 
bank beside the fallen tree. The full weight of the bush 
settled over him as it finally slid to a halt. Bramblestar 
heard a massive oof! from the middle of the branches. 
A moment later Cloudtail crawled out, his long white 
fur snagging on the twigs. 

“Good job,” Bramblestar mewed, padding up to 
him. “Are you okay?” 

Cloudtail let out a disgusted snort. “I’ve got every 
thorn in the bush stuck in my pelt,” he hissed. “But 
apart from that I’m fine.” 

With Thornclaw and  Squirrelflight helping, 
Bramblestar managed to push the hawthorn bush into 
the stream above the log so that the current shoved it 
firmly against the tree trunk. 

“Tt worked!” Poppyfrost exclaimed. 

“Let’s hope so,” Bramblestar muttered. “There’s 
still a long way to go.” 

Balancing carefully, Squirrelflight ventured out onto 
the bush. The branches sagged under her weight, but 
she stayed on her paws. “I think itll be okay,” she 


reported. “But we’d better have the lightest cats out 
here, and the rest should stay on the bank.” 

Poppyfrost leaped forward, but she was a bit too 
eager. The bush shifted under her weight and she 
almost slid backward into the stream until she dug in 
her claws and hauled herself into position beside 
Squirrelflight. 

“Not you,” Bramblestar meowed to Snowpaw as 
the apprentice got ready to follow the two she-cats. 
I’m not going to risk losing another apprentice. 
The young cat looked disappointed, so Bramblestar 
added, “I need a cat to keep watch. Let us know if you 
see any warriors coming up from WindClan.” 

Snowpaw brightened up immediately. “Right, 
Bramblestar!” He puffed out his chest and stood on 
the bank just downstream of the tree trunk, his ears 
pricked and his gaze fixed on the WindClan side of the 
torrent. 

Meanwhile Bumblestripe, Ivypool, and Jessy 
scrambled out onto the hawthorn bush, the branches 
dipping dangerously under the weight of so many cats. 
Ivypool’s hind paws slipped and water slopped over 
her hindquarters. She let out a hiss of annoyance as 


Bumblestripe steadied her. 

“I can’t even shake my pelt when I’m perched out 
here!” she grumbled. 

Bramblestar, Thornclaw, and Cloudtail remained on 
the bank. “Okay, is every cat ready?” Bramblestar 
called. 

“Just get on with it, before this bush gives way,” 
Squirrelflight grunted. 

Bramblestar braced himself. “When I say push . . 
. push!” 

Digging in with his hind paws to hold himself 
steady, Bramblestar heaved at the end of the tree 
trunk. Cloudtail and Thornclaw strained beside him. At 
first he thought nothing was happening, but then he felt 
the log shift slightly under his paws. 

“Tt’s moving!” he gasped. 

The cats on the bush threw all their weight against 
the tree. It shifted again, then with a grating sound 
slipped free of the rocks that held it and crashed into 
the stream with a massive splash that soaked the cats’ 
pelts. 

“Back to the bank!” Bramblestar yowled. 

With the tree trunk gone, the hawthorn bush was 


already tossing on the current. The cats who were 
balancing there pushed off in massive leaps for the 
bank. Jessy landed neatly, then whirled around to help 
Squirrelflight, who had been farthest away. The 
ThunderClan deputy was scrambling frantically among 
the branches as the bush started to roll over in the 
clutch of the rushing stream. 

“I can manage!” she panted, clawing her way 
through the dense thorns. 

Bramblestar leaned out and fastened his teeth in 
her scruff to haul her the last tail-length onto the bank. 
Squirrelflight’s paws had scarcely touched solid ground 
when the current finally swept the bush away and 
rolled it over and over downstream. Bramblestar 
looked around to make sure that all his Clanmates 
were safe. Every cat was spattered with mud, their 
pelts soaked through and torn by the prickly bush, and 
yet the light of triumph shone in their eyes. 

“We did it!” Ivypool yowled. “WindClan can’t get 
across here anymore.” 

“They might find another place higher upstream,” 
Bramblestar pointed out, “but ThunderClan should be 
safe for a while. Great job, all of you.” 


Squirrelflight nodded. “Let’s get back to camp.” 

Bramblestar felt worn out and battered as he led 
the way down the hill, back onto ThunderClan territory. 
But success had set his paws buzzing with new energy, 
and for the first time since the storm had broken he 
began to feel hopeful that they might get through this. 

“You two can set scent markers along the bank of 
the stream,” he told Ivypool and Poppyfrost. “We’ll 
make it clear to WindClan that we’re taking back our 
territory.” 

“TIl help too!” Snowpaw chirped. 

Bramblestar watched with satisfaction as his 
Clanmates left enough ThunderClan scent to swamp 
the remaining traces of WindClan. Lets hope they’ve 
learned their lesson. After all, its not like they cant 
drink from the stream on their own side. 

“You know,” Cloudtail meowed as he padded along 
beside Bramblestar, “it feels weird to be completely cut 
off from WindClan like this. Back in the old forest, 
Firestar and Tallstar were such good friends. It’s a pity 
that’s all changed, now that Onestar is leader.” 

“I know.” Bramblestar sighed. “Especially since 
Onestar got on well with Firestar when he was 


Onewhisker.” 

“T appreciate that we’re separate Clans,” Cloudtail 
went on, “but these days the WindClan cats look at us 
as if they want to rip our fur off. It bothered Firestar, 
too.” 

“Tell me more about Firestar,’ Jessy begged, 
bounding up to join them. “You all seem to respect him 
so much.” 

“There was never a cat like Firestar,” Cloudtail 
told her. “I’m proud to be his kin.” 

Jessy’s eyes stretched wide. “You’re his kin? Does 
that mean you were a kittypet too?” 

Cloudtail nodded, looking faintly embarrassed, and 
from somewhere behind him Bramblestar heard a 
snort of amusement from Thornclaw. 

Cloudtail ignored it. “My mother was Firestar’s 
sister, a kittypet called Princess,’ he explained to 
Jessy. “She never wanted to leave her Twolegs, but 
she was proud of Firestar for making his home in the 
forest, so she gave one of her kits to him to bring up.” 

“And that was you?” Jessy prompted. “Wasn’t it 
awfully hard, leaving your mother and learning to live 
in the forest when you were only a kit?” 


“It was tough,” Cloudtail admitted. “There was a 
lot to learn, and I missed my Twolegs and their den.” 

And their food,  Bramblestar thought, 
remembering the stories he had heard. 

“So why didn’t you go back?” Jessy went on. 

Ouch! Bramblestar knew that Cloudtail would find 
that hard to answer. When Cloudtail was an 
apprentice, he had kept sneaking into a Twoleg nest to 
eat kittypet food, until the Twolegs shut him inside to 
stop him from straying. The whole Clan knew how 
Firestar and some of his Clanmates had risked their 
lives to rescue him. But Cloudtail became a loyal 
warrior, Bramblestar reminded himself. He earned 
his place in ThunderClan. 

“T got used to it,” Cloudtail replied. “I wouldn’t live 
anywhere else now.” 

“Are there a lot of kittypets in the Clans?” Jessy 
went on. 

Cloudtail’s tail-tip twitched as if he was getting 
irritated by the flow of questions, but he answered 
readily enough. Maybe hes relieved not to be 
talking about himself anymore, Bramblestar thought. 

“No, the Clans don’t usually welcome kittypets,” 


the white warrior meowed. “Firestar was different, 
because he’d been a kittypet himself.” 

“That’s right,’ Thornclaw added, bounding forward 
to catch up to them. “And they’re very unpopular in 
the other Clans. Whatever you do, don’t cross the 
border into any other Clan’s territory. They’d chase 
you off as soon as look at you. And you might end up 
leaving some of your fur behind.” 

Jessy halted, staring in shock at the golden-brown 
tom. “Really? But I’m not their enemy!” 

“The warrior code says that we have to challenge 
all trespassing cats,” Poppyfrost told her as she turned 
from setting a scent marker. 

Jessy looked puzzled. “What's the warrior code?” 

“Tt’s the rules we live by,’ Bramblestar mewed. 
“Without it, we’d be no better than rogues.” 

“So you broke the code to give me shelter—and 
Frankie and Minty too?” Jessy sounded even more 
astonished. 

Bramblestar shifted his paws uncomfortably. “The 
code doesn’t allow me to watch cats die for no 
reason,” he responded after a moment’s pause. “T 
have to keep you safe until you can go back home.” 


Jessy nodded and padded on thoughtfully, her 
stream of questions silenced. 

Squirrelflight moved closer to Bramblestar and 
spoke softly into his ear. “I’m not sure that the code 
can be stretched to include kittypets,” she murmured. 
“You know that Firestar would always put his 
Clanmates first.” 

Bramblestar shrugged. “I know. There are really 
good reasons why I shouldn’t have brought those three 
into the Clan. But I didn’t feel I had any choice. I think 
Firestar would have done the same,” he finished. 

“Maybe you’re right,” Squirrelflight meowed. 


Back at the temporary camp, Bramblestar 
discovered that Brackenfur and Cinderheart had each 
led a hunting patrol into the woods beyond the border, 
and brought back a good catch. The Clan had begun to 
eat well since they extended their territory. 

Bramblestar could sense relief spreading 
throughout the Clan as he reported on the successful 
expedition to the WindClan border and the destruction 
of the tree-bridge. There was a mood of celebration as 
he and his Clanmates settled down to tuck in to the 


fresh-kill Even Frankie and Minty looked more 
relaxed, Bramblestar noticed, as they settled down to 
share a blackbird with Millie and Graystripe. The 
positive mood survived when every cat had finished 
eating. 

“Let’s see if we can’t get the nests sorted out,” 
Bramblestar suggested. “We should be able to organize 
the sleeping places so every cat gets better rest.” 

There was a murmur of agreement from the cats 
around him. Cinderheart led the three youngest 
apprentices into the undergrowth to look for anything 
that could be used for extra bedding. Daisy supervised 
while Molewhisker and Rosepetal clawed and chewed 
at the Twoleg pelt to divide it into smaller pieces. 
Dustpelt and Brackenfur dragged a branch into the 
tunnel and began using the end to mark out the limits of 
dens on the floor. 

“This will help a lot,’ Bramblestar mewed as he 
padded into the tunnel to watch. “Better put Purdy and 
the sick cats farthest from the entrance to keep them 
out of the wind.” 

“Good idea,” Brackenfur responded. With 
Dustpelt’s help he maneuvered the branch to trace a 


half circle next to the tunnel wall. “Leafpool and 
Jayfeather should sleep down here, too,” he added. 
“Then they’ ll be close to the cats who need their help.” 

Dustpelt angled his ears toward a niche in the 
tunnel wall where the earth and stone had crumbled 
away. “That could be useful” he meowed. “The 
medicine cats can store their herbs in those cracks.” 

“Look!” An excited squeal came from the 
entrance to the tunnel. 

Bramblestar turned to see Dewpaw and Snowpaw 
dragging a huge bundle of bracken inside. It was 
Snowpaw who had called out. 

“We found this really dense patch of fern,” 
Dewpaw added. “There’s lots of dry bracken inside. 
Cinderheart and Amberpaw are bringing some more.” 

“That’s great news,” Bramblestar purred. 

The bracken wasn’t entirely dry, and even with the 
second bundle there wasn’t enough to make a dry nest 
for every cat, but it was a big improvement on what 
they’d had until now. 

“Bring one bundle down here for the sick cats,” 
Bramblestar directed, “and then divide the rest among 
all the nests.” 


“Where do you want to put your... uh... 
visitors?” Dustpelt asked Bramblestar, while the 
apprentices scrambled around them making nests from 
the bracken. 

“The kittypets? They'd better go with the 
apprentices,’ Bramblestar replied after a moment’s 
thought. “After all, they'll be learning how we do 
things, too.” 

“We won’t have to do yucky stuff, will we?” Minty 
had poked her head inside the tunnel to watch what 
was going on. Her pink nose was creased in disgust. “T 
mean, I saw Amberpaw searching Purdy’s pelt for 
fleas. / haven't got fleas,’ she insisted, giving her 
shoulder a lick. 

“T could find you a few,” Dustpelt muttered. 

“Every cat has to pull their weight,’ Bramblestar 
told her, with a flick of his tail at Dustpelt. 

Minty blinked at him, wide-eyed and unhappy. 

“I don’t mind helping out where I can,” Frankie 
meowed, looking over Minty’s shoulder. 

“Thanks, Frankie.” Bramblestar flicked his tail at 
him. “And as for you, Minty, don’t worry. You’ll soon 
get used to living in a Clan.” 


Minty’s only response was a long sigh. 

Bramblestar watched as the remaining dens were 
marked out and the bedding organized. The pieces of 
the Twoleg pelt had almost dried out on the bush 
where Daisy had spread them, and the nests suddenly 
began to look comfortable. 

Squirrelflight padded up to his side and the two 
watched their Clanmates working for a few 
heartbeats. “You know,” she mewed, “I’m starting to 
believe that we will get through this.” 

Bramblestar nodded. “I’m sure we will. It takes 
more than a storm to destroy ThunderClan.” 





CHAPTER 18 
de 


v 


Bramblestar padded through his territory, weaving 
a path among the trees. The line of floodwater glinted 
silver a couple of tail-lengths away. Above his head the 
full moon shone down, so bright that the night was 
almost as clear as day. Walking to the water’s edge, 
Bramblestar looked out across the lake. At first the 
surface rippled with a pure, pale light. Then a scarlet 
stain began to spread, stretching its tendrils toward the 
shore. Bramblestar’s belly cramped with horror as he 
caught the tang of blood and saw thick red coils 
floating to the surface and swirling through the depths. 

No! A cat must be injured. . . . I have to get 
them out of the water before they drown! 

Bramblestar jumped into the lake. Silver droplets 
splashed around him, but before he could dive below 
the surface, he felt the teeth of another cat sink into his 
scruff. He let out a yowl and flailed his paws, but he 
couldn’t break the grip. The unseen cat dragged him 
back to the shore before it let go. 

Bramblestar whirled around and froze, his mouth 


falling open as he recognized the tom with the flame- 
colored pelt who stood in front of him. 

“Firestar!” he gasped. “There’s a cat in trouble,” 
he blurted out. “Look, it’s bleeding into the water! I 
have to find it!” 

Firestar’s green eyes glowed in the moonlight. “It's 
okay,” he reassured Bramblestar. “Your Clanmates are 
safe. There are no cats in the lake.” 

Bramblestar took a long breath. “Then am I... 
am I dreaming? Oh, Firestar, it’s so great to see you!” 

Firestar dipped his head. “It’s good to be back in 
my old territory.” 

‘Tve tried to look after your Clan,” Bramblestar 
meowed, struggling with a mixture of joy and guilt that 
made his voice shake. “But I—I lost Seedpaw. I’m so 
sorry! If only Pd kept a closer watch on the 
apprentices.” 

“Seedpaw is safe in StarClan,” Firestar told him. 
“And you need to learn that you cannot guard every 
one of your Clanmates all the time. As their leader, 
they’ll look to you to make the big decisions, and to 
keep them safe from outside enemies, but they have to 
make their own choices as well. I promise you, you’re 


doing a good job.” 

Bramblestar began to feel soothed by his former 
leader’s confidence in him. “But what about the 
visitors? The kittypets?” he asked. “Would you have 
brought them into the Clan? And would you—?” The 
words began to spill out of him; he wanted to ask about 
every single thing he had done since Firestar died. 

Firestar raised a paw to silence him. “You know 
the answers already,” he mewed gently. “They are in 
your heart.” As Bramblestar blinked at him, he went 
on, “This is not my Clan anymore. You are 
ThunderClan’s leader now. Trust the cats who gave 
you your nine lives. They all knew you would do well 
—-including me,” he added with a glint in his eyes. 

“Thank you, Firestar.” Bramblestar bowed his 
head. When he raised it again, he was startled to 
realize that the ginger cat was beginning to fade, and 
Bramblestar could see the stones on the shore through 
his starlit pelt. 

“I have come to tell you something very 
important,” Firestar meowed. “When water meets 
blood, blood will rise.” 

Bramblestar stared at him. “What does that 


mean?” 

“Look at the floodwater,” Firestar urged. “See how 
the blood cannot be drowned?” 

Bramblestar turned his head to gaze at the lake 
again. The strange upswelling of blood still shone 
scarlet among the waves. 

Firestar spoke from behind him. “I can’t tell you 
any more than this. Just remember...” 

His voice died away. When Bramblestar turned 
back, he was gone, and the forest was dark and silent. 
The moonlight too was blotted out, and Bramblestar 
was alone in the dark. 

Somewhere nearby, a cat sneezed. Bramblestar 
knew that he was back in the tunnel, surrounded by the 
warm scents of his sleeping Clanmates. The 
strangeness of his dream still wreathed around him, 
and Firestar’s mysterious words echoed in his head. 

When water meets blood, blood will rise. . . . 

What kind of prophecy was that? It cant mean 
that no cats will drown, because Seedpaw has 
already died. So what does it mean? 

After a long time wrestling with different 
meanings, and discarding them all, Bramblestar gave 


up and curled deeper into his nest. He slipped back into 
sleep to the sound of Graystripe’s muffled snores. 


The voices and movement of cats around him 
woke Bramblestar. He lifted his head to see pale light 
spilling into the tunnel as his Clanmates headed out to 
start the new day. Yawning, he scrambled to his paws 
and followed them. For once it wasn’t raining, though 
the sky was still gray and there was a damp, chilly 
breeze. 

Squirrelflight was already outside, choosing cats 
for the dawn patrols. “Greetings, sleepyhead,” she 
mewed, dipping her head to Bramblestar. 

With a jolt Bramblestar remembered his dream. “I 
have to talk to you,’ he told her. “Leafpool and 
Jayfeather, too. This is important.” 

His deputy gave him a worried look but didn’t ask 
any questions, just called Lionblaze and asked him to 
take over sorting out the patrols. Meanwhile 
Bramblestar headed back into the tunnel to find the 
two medicine cats. 

When all four cats were gathered it took a while to 
find a spot where they could talk without the rest of 


the Clan overhearing them. Not for the first time, 
Bramblestar missed the privacy of his old den on the 
Highledge. Finally they found a hollowed-out spot 
among the roots of a nearby oak tree. 

“Firestar came to me in a dream last night,” 
Bramblestar told his Clanmates once they were settled 
around him. “He told me, ‘When water meets blood, 
blood will rise.’ But I have no idea what that means.” 

Leafpool’s gaze lit up. “Firestar is watching over 
us!” she exclaimed. 

Jayfeather looked less impressed. “He might have 
been a bit clearer,’ he grumbled. 

“And told us what we need to do,” Squirrelflight 
agreed, looking frustrated. 

“Jayfeather,” Leafpool began, “you know as well 
as any cat that omens and prophecies are often 
difficult to understand at first.” 

Just like the troublesome stick, Bramblestar 
thought, guessing that the tabby she-cat had 
deliberately not mentioned it. If only we’d understood 
that a bit sooner. 

“Often prophecies are only clear after they’ve 
come true,” Leafpool continued. 


“Then what’s the point of having them?” 
Bramblestar asked, exchanging a glance with 
Squirrelflight. 

“Keep the prophecy in mind as you listen to your 
instincts,” Leafpool advised him. “Then the meaning 
should appear.” 

Bramblestar still wasn’t sure that he understood, 
but he realized this was the best advice he was going 
to get. “Tell me right away if StarClan speaks to either 
of you,” he ordered the two medicine cats. “And if you 
have any more ideas about this prophecy.” 

“Of course,” Jayfeather responded. “Come on, 
Leafpool. We have herbs to sort.” 

As the medicine cats padded away, Squirrelflight 
turned to Bramblestar. “Thanks for sharing the 
prophecy with me,” she meowed. “I promise to keep 
watch for what it might mean.” 

Her support warmed Bramblestar as he led the 
way back to the other cats, but before he could tell 
Squirrelflight this, Jessy emerged from the tunnel and 
came bouncing up to him. The other two kittypets 
followed more slow]y. 

“Hi, Bramblestar,” Jessy chirped. “I had a great 


time yesterday. What are we doing today?” 

Bramblestar was slightly taken aback by the brown 
she-cat’s enthusiasm. “If you really want to help the 
Clan,” he meowed, “you need to learn how to hunt. 
Frankie and Minty, too.” 

Frankie, who came up in time to hear what 
Bramblestar said, looked interested, but Minty blinked 
doubtfully and took a step back. 

“Minty, you have to learn,” Frankie told her, 
touching her shoulder with his tail-tip. “You can’t stay 
here and expect these cats to feed you.” 

“But as soon as the water goes away, we’ ll be able 
to go home,” Minty objected. “My housefolk will be so 
worried about me. Perhaps we’re too far away from 
them up here,” she fretted. “Maybe we should move 
closer to our homes, so when our housefolk come back 
they can find us quickly.” 

Millie, who was standing nearby with Graystripe, 
turned to the kittypet with a compassionate look in her 
eyes. “I don’t think the floods will go away for another 
quarter moon,” she mewed gently. “You’re safe here, 
safer than you would be in any other Clan’s territory, 
and you’ll be able to see when the water starts to go 


down. Then you can go home—but not before, not 
when it isn’t safe.” 

Minty’s eyes clouded with sadness. “We might be 
stuck here for ages,” she wailed. “My poor 
housefolk!” 

“I know it’s not ideal” Frankie comforted her. “I 
want to go back and look for Benny. But we have to 
keep away from more risks. Surely that’s what our 
housefolk want most of all: for us to survive?” 

Minty sighed, but she didn’t argue any more. 

Bramblestar felt a pang of sympathy for the 
kittypets. It had been a shock for them to lose their 
homes, and even Minty was trying to be brave and 
sensible. “PI take you hunting myself)” he meowed. 
“Dovewing, will you come too?” 

Dovewing, who had been waiting to join a patrol, 
spun around at the sound of her leader’s voice. “Me? 
But Ivypool is much better at hunting than me.” She 
sighed. “In fact, every cat is better than me now... .” 

Bramblestar knew that she was still regretting the 
loss of her special powers, which had helped her to 
pinpoint prey more accurately than any cat in the Clan. 
“And that’s what makes you the best cat to train these 


kittypets,” he told her briskly. “You know what it’s like 
to learn from the very beginning, when you’re feeling 
blind and deaf and lost in the trees.” 

“Oh!” Dovewing was obviously surprised by this 
idea. “Okay, I’d be glad to help,” she agreed. 

By this time the early patrols were ready to set 
out. Lionblaze was taking his cats to the WindClan 
border, to check the crossing place and to make sure 
there were no new WindClan scents. Squirrelflight was 
leading cats along the ShadowClan border, while 
Brightheart and Birchfall were both heading up hunting 
patrols in the woods beyond the territory. 

“We’re all being asked to travel much farther than 
we’re used to,” Squirrelflight murmured as the patrols 
set out. 

Bramblestar nodded, his gaze traveling across his 
thin, weary Clanmates. “We have no choice,” he 
reminded his deputy, feeling bad for them but knowing 
that they would all do what they had to, to protect the 
Clan and survive. 

He took Dovewing and the kittypets into the trees 
in the direction of the ShadowClan border, treading in 
Squirrelflight’s paw steps but letting her patrol draw 


ahead. Once they were well away from the tunnel 
among dense undergrowth, he halted. 

“First you have to learn the hunter’s crouch,” he 
began. “That’s essential for every ThunderClan cat— 
or any cat who happens to be living in ThunderClan for 
a time,” he added as Minty opened her jaws to object. 
“Dovewing, show them how.” 

Dovewing crouched down with her paws drawn up 
under her and her hind legs braced for a pounce. 

“See how she’s ready to leap?” Bramblestar 
meowed. “She’s putting all her strength into her hind 
legs—like this.” He pressed himself to the ground, 
copying Dovewing’s crouch. “Dovewing, show them 
the pounce.” 

Dovewing sprang forward, her forepaws extended 
and her claws ready to grip her quarry. 

“Great,” Bramblestar commented. “See how her 
forepaws flashed out? Her prey wouldn't have a 
chance.” 

“Now you try,” Dovewing suggested. 

Bramblestar stayed in the crouching position so 
that the kittypets could copy him. All three looked 
nervous, but they wriggled into position and tucked in 


their paws neatly. 

“Very good,” Dovewing mewed, pacing around 
them and checking their position. “Frankie, pull your 
hind paws a bit farther in. That’s right.” 

“Excellent.” Bramblestar rose and arched his back 
in a stretch, loosening up after the crouch. “Now let’s 
try pouncing.” He peeled a bunch of moss off a nearby 
tree root and padded forward until he emerged in a 
small clearing. “Suppose this moss is a mouse,” he 
continued, dropping the bundle in the middle. “I want 
you to stalk it, crouch, and then pounce.” 

“Ts this what you do with your apprentices?” Jessy 
asked. 

“Yes,” Bramblestar replied. 

Jessy let out a snort that was half-amused, though 
her taibtip flicked frustratedly. “But we’re not 
apprentices!” she pomted out. “We’ve all hunted 
before, whatever you think of our skills. Why don’t you 
let us show you what we can do?” 

“I don’t thnk—” Bramblestar began, his neck fur 
beginning to rise defensively. 

“That’s a great idea,’ Dovewing interrupted. “That 
way, we’ ll see what we need to teach you.” 


Bramblestar nodded, appreciating the sense in 
what his Clanmate said. “Okay. Frankie, you go first. 
Can you scent any prey?” 

The tabby tom cast him a nervous glance, then 
stood with his ears pricked and his jaws parted to taste 
the air. Bramblestar was slightly surprised that he 
knew what to do. 

After a moment Frankie turned to him. “T think 
there’s a squirrel under there,” he mewed, angling his 
ears toward a holly bush at the edge of the clearing. 

“I think so, too,’ Bramblestar replied; he had 
picked up the scent several heartbeats before Frankie. 
“See if you can catch it.” 

Forgetting all about stalking, Frankie tore across 
the clearing with a yowl, startling the squirrel, which 
shot out from beneath the holly bush and raced around 
a bramble thicket with its tail streaming out behind tt. 
Frankie hurtled after it, crashing through the brambles, 
only to halt in frustration as the squirrel swarmed up 
the trunk of a nearby beech tree and vanished among 
the branches. 

His head and tail drooping, Frankie trudged back to 
the other cats. “I’m sorry, I messed up,” he muttered. 


He looked thoroughly depressed, and he had lost 
several tufts of fur in his mad dash through the 
brambles. 

“It wasn’t so bad,” Dovewing meowed bracingly. 
“Okay, you didn’t catch it, but you picked up its scent 
quickly, and you kept after it, even with brambles in the 
way. You just need to work on being quieter.” 

Frankie perked up. “PI remember that,’ he 
promised. 

Dovewing gave him a nod and turned to Minty. 
“You try now.” 

Minty looked even more nervous than Frankie, but 
she stood still with her ears pricked just as he had 
done, though she forgot to taste the air for scent. She 
kept jumping at the sound of creaking branches or 
rustling leaves, as if she thought a fox or a badger 
might be sneaking up on her. At last she glanced at 
Bramblestar and whispered, “I think I’ve found 
something.” 

Bramblestar was confused. He couldn’t scent any 
nearby prey at all. Don t tell me that kittypet is better 
at this than me! “Okay, go ahead,” he mewed. 

Minty started to stalk forward, setting her paws 


down lightly. At least she’s learned something from 
what Frankie did, Bramblestar thought, still 
wondering what she thought she was going to catch. 

Then Minty dropped into an untidy hunter’s crouch, 
and jumped forward with her forepaws stretching out. 
“Got it!” she yowled as she landed, sinking her claws 
into something brown, almost hidden by an arching 
fern. “Oh . . .” she added a moment later, looking 
disconcerted. 

Bramblestar padded over to look. He hid an 
amused purr when he saw that Minty’s prey was 
actually an old log half-buried in the grass. 

“I thought it was a rat,” she murmured, scrabbling 
her paws in embarrassment. 

“We don’t get many rats in this part of the forest,” 
Bramblestar told her. “But don’t worry, Minty. That 
was pretty good. If it had been a rat, you’d have stood 
a good chance of catching it.” 

Minty looked unconvinced. 

“My turn now,” Jessy announced. 

Instead of standing still, she began slipping quietly 
through the undergrowth, her paws hardly touching the 
ground, while she stared up into the trees. Bramblestar 


and the others followed her at a distance. Eventually 
Jessy froze, her gaze fixed on a low branch where a 
thrush was perched. 

Hunting in trees? Bramblestar thought. Not a 
chance! 

To his surprise, Jessy leaped up the tree trunk, 
quick as a fox. The thrush spotted her, and with a loud 
alarm call fluttered away into the next tree. Without 
hesitating, Jessy ran out along the branch and jumped 
after the thrush, pinning it to the next branch with one 
paw. The thrush struggled and nearly got free; Jessy 
almost overbalanced as she lowered her head and 
managed to bite it in the throat. She hopped down 
neatly with the thrush in her jaws and dropped it at 
Bramblestar’s paws. 

Bramblestar thought he had never seen a cat look 
so smug. And I told her I bet she'd never caught 
anything! 

“Wow, that was great!” Dovewing exclaimed. 

“Oh, Jessy’s a brilliant hunter,’ Frankie told them. 
“And she loves to climb. Hey, Jessy, did you tell them 
about the time your housefolk thought you were stuck 
on the roof?” 


Jessy tossed her head. “I can’t believe they 
thought I couldn’t get down!” 

“Yes,” Frankie purred, “but you could have shown 
them before they climbed onto the roof themselves.” 

Jessy swished her tail and looked mnocent. 

“ÉI shouldn’t have dismissed your skills,” 
Bramblestar admitted to her. “That’s a rare skill, being 
able to jump between trees. Firestar wanted 
ThunderClan cats to learn, but it doesn’t come easily to 
us.” 

‘Tve never felt comfortable being off the ground,” 
Dovewing agreed. “I don’t have wings, in spite of my 
name.” 

“Maybe I should give you some lessons,” Jessy 
suggested. There was a teasing glint in her eye. 

“Maybe you should,” Bramblestar mewed, meeting 
her gaze. “Meanwhile let’s head for the ShadowClan 
border and see what else we can find. Jessy, if you 
scratch some earth over that thrush, we’ ll pick it up on 
the way back.” 

As the five cats headed off, Bramblestar felt more 
relaxed than he had for days. It was good to be part of 
a patrol, without the weight of his duties as Clan 


leader. And he was impressed by how well Jessy was 
fitting in. 

Every cat was keeping a lookout for prey; 
Dovewing was the first to spot a shrew scrabbling in 
the grass at the foot of a mossy bank. “Frankie,” she 
murmured, angling her ears toward the tiny creature. 
“See that? Try catching it. And remember . . . quiet!” 

Looking determined, the gray tabby tom crept 
toward the shrew. He remembered to set his paws 
down carefully, but he had forgotten about his tail, 
which swept over a clump of long grass. The shrew 
darted away as the shadow of the grass fell across tt. 
Frankie hurled himself at it in an enormous leap, but his 
claws hit the ground just short of his prey. The shrew 
veered away in a panic, right into the claws of 
Dovewing, who killed it with one quick blow. 

“T missed it!” Frankie wailed. 

“But you drove it straight into my paws,” 
Dovewing pointed out. “We make a great team!” 

A pleased purr rose in Frankie’s throat. 

“What about you, Minty?” Bramblestar asked. 
“Can you spot anything? Or hear anything?” 

Minty gazed around confusedly. “It’s all so 


strange,” she confessed. 

Bramblestar twitched his tail in rising frustration. 
Cant she even tell the difference between a branch 
creaking and a mouse scuffling? 

He opened his jaws, ready for a harsh comment, 
when Dovewing stepped between him and Minty, 
motioning him away with a jerk of her head. “Come 
on, Minty,” she mewed. “Let’s listen together. Can you 
hear that loud creaking noise? The one that’s repeated 
every couple of heartbeats?” 

Minty listened for a moment, then nodded. 

“What do you think that is?” Dovewing asked. 

“Er... a branch moving in the wind?” 

“Very good,” Dovewing praised her. “Now... 
that rustling sound, just behind you. No—don’t turn 
your head and look!” 

“Ferns.” This time Minty sounded more confident. 

Bramblestar realized that Dovewing was drawing 
on her own experience of being able to hear 
everything. Her patience with Minty was clearly 
comforting the kittypet, making her feel less out of 
place. 

Frankie was busy practicing his stalking and 


crouching, so Bramblestar padded on slowly with Jessy 
by his side. “Where did you learn to climb?” he asked 
the brown she-cat. 

“My mother taught me,” Jessy replied. “I’ve 
always dreamed of living among trees!” 

“Well, now you are,” Bramblestar purred. “And it’s 
even better than this when the lake isn’t flooded.” 
Halting to point through the woods with his tail, he 
added, “There are lots of different trees down there, 
closer to the shore. Well, there used to be. I don’t 
know if they’ ll survive being underwater.” 

“You’re really worried that the water won’t go 
down, aren’t you?” Jessy guessed. 

“Yes, I am,” Bramblestar meowed. “Not just for 
ThunderClan, but for all the Clans.” 

Together the two cats wandered on in 
companionable silence. But while they were still some 
way from the ShadowClan border, Bramblestar heard 
a faint hiss coming from the trees ahead. Pausing to 
taste the air, he stiffened, feeling every hair on his pelt 
begin to rise. 

ShadowClan scent! 

Bramblestar suspected that a ShadowClan patrol 


had crossed the border. He motioned Jessy to get back 
with a wave of his tail, wishing that he weren’t stuck 
out here alone with only a kittypet. 
Then a tortoiseshell head peered out from behind a 
bush, and Bramblestar let out a puff of relief. 
“Tawnypelt!” he cried. “What are you doing 
here?” 





CHAPTER 19 
de 


S 


As Tawnypelt emerged from behind the bush, 
Bramblestar was aware of Jessy stiffening, her claws 
sliding out and her neck fur bristling as if she was 
ready for a fight. 

Of course, Bramblestar thought, she’s heard all 
about how hostile ShadowClan is, and she saw the 
WindClan intruders for herself. 

“It’s okay, Jessy,” he meowed. “This is Tawnypelt, 
my sister. Wait here while I speak to her.” He padded 
forward the few paw steps that brought him close to 
his sister. Tawnypelt was looking very thin, her 
tortoiseshell fur ruffled and her eyes wide. “Is 
Rowanstar okay?” Bramblestar asked. 

“He's as well as the rest of us,” Tawnypelt replied. 
“But . . . oh, Bramblestar, ShadowClan is in big 
trouble. We”ve lost our camp and nearly all our hunting 
grounds. Our territory is so low-lying that the water 
has covered nearly all of it.” 

“You're right, that’s bad,” Bramblestar mewed. 
“ThunderClan is struggling, too. We’ve started hunting 


beyond the top border; has Rowanstar thought of doing 
that?” 

“Yes, but our patrols ran into some trouble. . . . 
Tawnypelt lowered her head, looking uncomfortable, 
and scrabbled her paws in the grass. 

“What kind of trouble?” Bramblestar prompted 
her. 

Tawnypelt took a deep breath. “There are kittypets 
who seem to think that part of the forest belongs to 
them,” she told her brother. “They attacked our 
patrols.” 

“Kittypets?” Bramblestar blinked in surprise. “Not 
the ones who live in the Twoleg nest in your territory? 
I thought we’d taught them a lesson.” 

Tawnypelt shook her head. “No, they went off 
with their Twolegs when the water started to rise. 
These are different cats.” 

“And they managed to chase off ShadowClan 
warriors?” Bramblestar found that hard to believe. 

“There were a lot of them!” Tawnypelt protested. 
“And we... we're so hungry all the time, we’re not 
as strong as we were.” 

Bramblestar could understand that. Compassion 


33 


for his sister clawed at him; he could see she was torn 
between pride and the desperate need for help. “What 
do you want me to do?” he meowed. “Do you want 
me to give you some of our fresh-kill? That could be 
difficult... .” 

Before Tawnypelt could reply, Jessy bounded up to 
his side. “Hi!” she mewed to Tawnypelt. 

Bramblestar wished that the kittypet had stayed 
where he left her. “This is Jessy,” he told his sister. 
“She’s staying with us for a while.” 

“I live with my housefolk over there,” Jessy added 
with a wave of her tail across the lake. “But they left 
when the floods came.” 

“You're a kittypet?” Tawnypelt’s eyes stretched 
wide as she gazed over Bramblestar’s shoulder. “And 
there are more of you?” 

Glancing back, Bramblestar saw that Frankie and 
Minty had appeared from the trees with Dovewing. 

“Are you completely mouse-brained?” Tawnypelt 
yelped. “Giving food and shelter to kittypets at a time 
like this?” 

“They would have died if Pd left them in the 
flood!” Bramblestar growled, aware of Jessy bristling 


by his side. 

“That's hardly your problem,” Tawnypelt retorted. 
“Well, I guess I can’t expect you to help us if you’re 
too busy feeding kittypets.” 

Bramblestar forced himself not to get angry. She 5 
not usually this short tempered. Its only because 
she and her Clan are in trouble. “Firestar showed 
me that compassion is a sign of strength,’ he 
responded calmly. 

“Firestar would have put Clan cats first!” 
Tawnypelt snapped. She turned and stalked away, then 
paused to look back over her shoulder. “Forget I said 
anything, Bramblestar,” she hissed. “Rowanstar will 
figure out a way to save us.” 

“Wow!” Minty exclaimed, watching Tawnypelt 
vanish into the bushes. “She’s really fiery! I can see 
why you don’t get along with ShadowClan.” 

“That's Bramblestar’s sister, Tawnypelt,” 
Dovewing informed her. “She's okay.” 

Bramblestar was torn between anger and worry 
for his sister. Things must be really bad in 
ShadowClan if she's coming here to ask for help. 
He knew how proud Tawnypelt was of her adopted 


Clan. I’m sure Rowanstar knows nothing about this. 

“Is everything okay with Tawnypelt?” Dovewing 
asked him. 

Bramblestar hesitated, not sure how much he 
wanted to give away. “Not really,” he replied at last. 
“But she’s no worse than the rest of us, struggling to 
survive the flood.” 

Bramblestar led his patrol back to the camp, 
pausing to pick up Jessy’s thrush on the way. When 
they reached the tunnel, Frankie headed straight for 
Millie, who was helping Briarlight with her exercises 
near the entrance. 

“Look what Dovewing and I caught,” he meowed, 
laying the shrew proudly at Millie’s paws. 

“Very good!” Millie’s eyes glowed as she gazed at 
the kittypet. “You see, it just takes a little while for you 
to settle in here.” 

“And Jessy caught a thrush all by herself,’ Minty 
added as some of the other cats gathered around to 
look. “She climbed up the tree and leaped through the 
branches just like a real forest cat!” Minty sounded as 
pleased as if she had caught the thrush herself. 

“Good job,” Squirrelflight mewed, giving the thrush 


a sniff. “We’ll take you out with the apprentices next 
time.” 

“They’re all doing well” Dovewing put in. Half 
joking, she added, “Maybe we should give them some 
fighting lessons next.” 

Jessy and Frankie exchanged a glance. “I’m up for 
it,” Jessy declared. Frankie looked less certain, but 
nodded a heartbeat later. 

Minty took a step back. “T’ll stick with hunting, if 
that’s okay.” 

Bramblestar went to look for Sandstorm, and found 
her inside the tunnel, fluffing up the bedding to help it 
dry out. He remembered she’d been ill; though she 
wasn’t coughing now, he didn’t like the sound of her 
rasping breath. 

“Did you want something, Bramblestar?” she 
asked, turning toward him. 

Bramblestar paced the tunnel restlessly as he told 
her about his meeting with Tawnypelt. “What do you 
think Firestar would have done?” he asked her. 

Sandstorm had listened quietly, sitting with her tail 
wrapped around her paws. “I think you’re asking the 
wrong question,” she mewed. Her green gaze was 


fixed on him. “You should be asking yourself what you 
should do.” 

“I don’t know,” Bramblestar confessed. “That's 
why I’m asking for your opinion.” 

Sandstorm flicked her tail-tip back and forth for a 
couple of heartbeats, thinking. “You haven't welcomed 
Rowanstar formally as ShadowClan’s leader yet,” she 
pointed out at last. “And there’ll be no more 
Gatherings until the water goes down. Why not visit 
him? If his Clan is obviously in trouble, it wouldn’t be 
too difficult to ask if he wants help. Then he can make 
the decision whether to accept or not.” 

Bramblestar sagged with relief. “You’re right,” he 
meowed. “Why didn’t I think of that? What kind of 
leader am I if I have to ask you what to do all the 
time?” 

“You don’t ask me all the time,” Sandstorm mewed 
briskly. “You’re doing fine. I’m glad Tawnypelt felt that 
she could come and ask you for help,’ she added. 
“Sometimes Clan boundaries cause more damage than 
they’re worth.” 


The two hunting parties returned at sunhigh. Not 


that we can see the sun, Bramblestar thought. 
Sometimes I think we'll never feel its warmth again. 
When every cat had finished eating, Squirrelflight 
began to organize the afternoon patrols. 

“I don't mind going out again,” Jessy offered. 
“Hunting this morning was fun.” 

“TIl go too,” Frankie mewed. 

Bramblestar was glad that the two kittypets were 
adapting so well, but he could see that they were both 
tired after the morning’s unaccustomed exercise. “No, 
you’ve already done your bit,’ he meowed. He had 
been watching the two medicine cats patiently trekking 
back and forth with mouthfuls of herbs, and now he 
suggested, “Why don’t you help Jayfeather and 
Leafpool sort out their supplies?” 

“That would be great.” Leafpool padded over to 
them. “We’re managing to build up a store again, but 
we lost everything so we had to start over.” 

Bramblestar spotted Dovewing talking to 
Brightheart, who had also been helping the medicine 
cats. “Do you think you could take Minty with you to 
look for herbs? It would help her get used to the 
forest.” 


“Sure,” Brightheart responded. 

Bramblestar gave Dovewing a grateful nod, 
impressed by her kindness and her good sense in 
guessing what would help Minty to feel better about 
her new surroundings. 

Cherryfall and Mousewhisker puffed past him, 
dragging branches, with Brackenfur and Dustpelt to 
supervise. 

“Careful as you go past the mudfall,’ Dustpelt 
warned. “We spent a lot of time getting it secure, and I 
don’t want you to dislodge it.” 

“We're being careful,” Cherryfall panted. 

“IPI be fine,’ Brackenfur reassured Dustpelt. 
“Think how much more comfortable the nests will be 
when we install these windbreaks.” 

Bramblestar watched them as they disappeared 
into the tunnel. He couldn’t help noticing how old 
Dustpelt and Brackenfur were looking, the fur around 
their muzzles fading to gray and their movements 
growing stiffer. /’m glad they have the younger cats 
to help them. 

“No, Purdy, you don’t need to go on patrol.” 
Squirrelflight’s voice interrupted Bramblestar’s 


thoughts. “I need you to help look after the sick cats— 
Briarlight especially.” 

Bramblestar purred. ld be lost without 
Squirrelflight to keep every cat in line! She has a 
knack for making them all feel useful and 
important, even Purdy. 

When the sturdy tabby had gone bumbling off into 
the tunnel, Squirrelflight noticed that Bramblestar was 
looking at her, and padded across to him. “Do you have 
any special tasks for today?” 

“I'm thinking of going over to ShadowClan to have 
a word with Rowanstar,” Bramblestar meowed. “Just 
to see how he’s coping.” 

Squirrelflight blinked in surprise. “I don’t think 
Rowanstar will appreciate another Clan muscling in,” 
she told him. 

“Blackstar was generous to me when I first 
became Clan leader,” Bramblestar responded. ‘T d like 
to return the favor.” He didn’t tell Squirrelflight about 
his encounter with Tawnypelt. 

Squirrelflight still didn’t look impressed, but she 
didn’t argue any more. “Then PI stay here and keep 
an eye on the camp,” she mewed. 


Bramblestar glanced around to see which cats 
were free to come with him, and beckoned Leafpool 
with a wave of his tai. “I’m going to visit 
ShadowClan,” he informed her. “Now that Jayfeather 
has some help, I’d like you to come with me.” 

“Sure, Bramblestar.” 

“Spiderleg, Cinderheart!” Bramblestar called. 

The long-legged black warrior came bounding over, 
while Cinderheart, who had been talking to Lionblaze 
under a nearby elder bush, followed more slowly, with 
Lionblaze still at her side. 

“Can I come t00?” Lionblaze asked when he heard 
where his Clan leader and the others were going. 

Bramblestar shook his head. “I’m not expecting 
trouble,” he meowed, “so I don’t want to take too 
many warriors with me. Besides, Lionblaze, you have 
a habit of bringing trouble to ShadowClan all by 
yourself.” 

“Okay,” Lionblaze agreed without protest. He 
touched noses with Cinderheart. “Take care,” he 
mewed softly. “You don’t know what you’re going to 
find over there.” 

Cinderheart gave his ear a lick. “Don’t worry. I'll 


be fine.” 

Watching their farewell, Leafpool leaned close to 
Bramblestar. “I wouldn’t be surprised if we have some 
new kits in the Clan soon,” she murmured. 

Kits! Bramblestar thought happily. Then he let out 
a sigh. / hope they arent born outside the hollow, in 
this cold, damp tunnel. 

As Bramblestar’s patrol was getting ready to 
leave, Jessy looked up from where she was sorting 
herbs with Jayfeather and came racing over to them. 
“Good luck, Bramblestar,” she meowed. “You’re being 
a good brother to do this.” 

Squirrelflight looked puzzled. “What does she 
mean, ‘a good brother”?” she asked, her tail-tip 
twitching. 

Bramblestar began to regret that he hadn’t told 
Squirrelflight about his meeting with Tawnypelt. But 
its too late now. “Oh... uh... I guess Jessy knows 
my sister is in ShadowClan, and that I’m worried about 
her.” 

Squirrelflight didn’t look convinced by his reply, her 
green gaze flicking from Bramblestar to Jessy and 
back again. “Well, isn’t Jessy learning quickly,” she 


commented after a moment. 

Realizing anything he said would just make things 
worse, Bramblestar led his patrol out of the camp and 
through the trees to the ShadowClan border. When 
they reached it and saw the extent of the flooding in 
their rivals’ territory, Spiderleg and Leafpool halted, 
gazing in shock at the waste of water. 

“I had no idea the lake had stretched so far!” 
Leafpool exclaimed. 

“It’s pretty bad.” Cinderheart, who had seen this 
on her previous patrol, was calmer. “Life must be so 
hard for ShadowClan now.” 

“Life’s hard for all of us,’ Spiderleg mewed 
unsympathetically. 

Bramblestar had no idea how to find 
ShadowClan’s temporary camp, so he led his patrol 
along the border, staying on the ThunderClan side, his 
ears pricked for the sound of cats and his jaws parted 
to pick up their scent. Eventually a whiff of 
ShadowClan scent reached him and he heard the 
swish of long grass as cats brushed through it. 

“Hey, ShadowClan!” he called out, stopping. “Over 
here!” 


He waited, his Clanmates bunched around him, 
until Crowfrost appeared around a bramble thicket 
with Tigerheart and Scorchfur a pace or two behind. 
All three cats looked desperately thin, their ribs 
showing beneath their pelts. 

“What do you want?” Crowfrost growled as he 
stopped in front of Bramblestar. “You have no business 
being here.” 

“We haven’t crossed your border,’ Bramblestar 
pointed out mildly. “But we’d like to visit Rowanstar. I 
want to welcome him as your new leader.” 

“I think they just want to find out where we’ve 
made our new camp,” Scorchfur put in, glaring over 
Crowfrost’s shoulder. 

“Well, we don’t have to take them there,” 
Crowfrost responded. “If that’s really what you want,” 
he added to Bramblestar, “then we’ ll bring Rowanstar 
to you here.” 

Bramblestar would have been prepared to settle 
for that, but Spiderleg broke in. “Look, we’re all 
suffering from the floods,” he snapped. “The last thing 
we want is to attack your camp. Just take us there!” 

“That’s enough!” Bramblestar warned him, raising 


his tail. 

Before he could say anything to the ShadowClan 
cats, Crowfrost’s shoulders sagged. “Okay, then, come 
on,” he meowed, sounding too weary to argue 
anymore. 

The ThunderClan patrol crossed out of their own 
territory and followed the ShadowClan cats, heading 
toward the top border. The ground began to rise 
steeply and a cold wind whipped their fur the wrong 
way and rattled the tops of the spindly trees. 
Crowfrost came to a halt in front of a dense bramble 
thicket. There was a strong reek of ShadowClan, and 
Bramblestar could hear sounds of movement and 
muted mews coming from deep within the brambles. It 
looks like they camped as high up as they could 
because they were afraid the water wouldnt stop 
rising. 

“Wait here,” Crowfrost ordered. ‘Plo bring 
Rowanstar out to you.” Pressing himself to the ground, 
he wriggled his way inside. Scorchfur and Tigerheart 
remained outside on guard. Ready to spring if we put 
a paw wrong, Bramblestar thought. 

Eventually there was movement among the 


brambles and Rowanstar appeared, followed by 
Crowfrost and two or three other ShadowClan cats. 

“Greetings, Bramblestar,” the ShadowClan leader 
mewed. “Crowfrost, thank you for bringing them to 
see me. Crowfrost is my new deputy,” he added to the 
ThunderClan cats, who murmured congratulations. 

“And of course we congratulate you on receiving 
your nine lives, Rowanstar,’ Bramblestar meowed. 
“We know you will be a strong leader for ShadowClan. 
I see that you’ve managed to find a good place to 
camp while the water is high.” 

Rowanstar gave a brief nod. “Yes, we’ve had to 
move, just as you have, no doubt. But the water will 
soon go down, and meanwhile we’re surviving.” 

For all his brave words, Bramblestar could see the 
panic in the Clan leader’s eyes. His tucked-up flanks 
suggested that he had been giving all the fresh-kill to 
his Clanmates. But Bramblestar knew there was no 
point in challenging him directly about the trouble he 
was in. There's no way he would ever admit it. 

Leafpool stepped forward, dipping her head to 
Rowanstar. “May I speak to Littlecloud?” 

“Yes, of course,’ Rowanstar replied, respect for 


the medicine cat showing in his eyes. “Dawnpelt, 
please go get him.” 

The cream-furred she-cat, her belly swollen with 
kits, turned and pushed her way back into the 
brambles. Thats Tawnypelts daughter, Bramblestar 
thought. My kin .. . and her kits will come soon. 1 
must do something to help this Clan. 

Littlecloud emerged from the thicket a moment 
later. Bramblestar was shocked to see how old and 
frail he looked; his eyes seemed to be fixed on some 
point in the distance, and his haunches quivered as he 
lowered himself to the ground. 

Bramblestar’s shock was reflected in Leafpool's 
eyes as she padded up to Littlecloud and touched 
noses with him. “How are you, Littlecloud?” she 
asked. 

“Fine,” the old tabby rasped. “The apprentices are 
finding herbs to replenish my stores, and all the cats 
are healthy.” 

“Would you like me to take a look at your 
supplies?” Leafpool offered. “I might have some spare 
herbs that you're missing.” 

A pleased glimmer appeared in Littlecloud’s eyes. 


“Thank you, Leafpool. That would be very helpful.” 

Rowanstar’s neck fur bristled slightly, but he didn’t 
protest as his medicine cat led the way into the thicket 
and Leafpool followed. 

The medicine cats had hardly disappeared when 
Pinenose and Pouncetail padded up from the direction 
of the lake, dragging dry bracken fronds behind them. 
Bramblestar exchanged a surprised glance with 
Cinderheart that warriors were fetching bedding; then 
he recalled that ShadowClan had so few apprentices 
that some of the everyday tasks would have to be 
carried out by warriors. 

“Great, you found some!” Scorchfur exclaimed, 
looking pleased, as the two cats approached. 

“We’ll take this straight to the nursery,” Pinenose 
mumbled around her mouthful of bracken. “Snowbird 
and your kits will sleep warm tonight.” 

“Let me help you carry it in,” Cinderheart 
suggested, stepping forward. 

“TIl come, too,” Spiderleg added. 

The warriors who were struggling with the 
bracken looked willing to accept help, but Rowanstar 
lashed his tail “ShadowClan can manage without 


ThunderClan’s interference,” he snapped. 

“No cat doubts that,” Bramblestar mewed, keeping 
his voice calm. “But equally it’s not a sign of weakness 
to accept help sometimes.” 

Rowanstar’s nostrils flared, while Pinenose and 
Pouncetail quickly started dragging the bracken into 
the camp before a full-blown argument developed. The 
ThunderClan warriors stayed where they were. 

With a twitch of his ears Bramblestar beckoned 
Rowanstar a little way from the bramble thicket, so 
that they could talk privately. “Look,” he began, 
deciding to get straight to the point, “I know about the 
kittypets who have been stopping you from hunting 
beyond the border. If you want, I could send some 
warriors to help you defeat them, just like we did when 
you first moved into the territory.” 

Rowanstar lashed his tail and his shoulder fur 
bristled up into spikes. “Who told you?” he demanded. 

As if his words had summoned her, Tawnypelt 
appeared from the bushes, carrying a scrawny 
blackbird in her jaws. The rest of her hunting patrol 
followed with a few more puny scraps of prey. She 
halted at the sight of Bramblestar standing beside 


Rowanstar. 

Understanding flashed into Rowanstar’s eyes. 
“Tawnypelt!” he snarled. “Over here—now!” 

Tawnypelt gave her blackbird to another member 
of her patrol and padded over. 

“It was you, wasn’t it?” Rowanstar challenged her. 
“You told a cat from another Clan that ShadowClan 
needed help.” 

Tawnypelt gave Bramblestar a glare as if to ask 
him why he had come blundering in. “Yes, it was me. 
Of course I’Il ask my brother for help if I need it.” 

“And you call that being loyal to ShadowClan?” 
Rowanstar demanded. 

“You've never had reason to doubt my loyalty.” 
Tawnypelt’s voice was scathing. Then she softened, 
taking a step toward Rowanstar. “Please let 
ThunderClan help us,” she begged. 

Rowanstar lifted his head proudly. “Never. This is 
my Clan, and we will stand alone.” 

Bramblestar felt a sudden rush of sympathy. / 
should never have expected that Rowanstar would 
fall at our paws and beg for help. “Cinderheart, 
Spiderleg, we’re leaving,” he meowed. “Will some cat 


please get Leafpool?” 

Scorchfur slid into the thicket, and emerged a 
moment later with Leafpool and Littlecloud. She 
padded over to Bramblestar, and he saw with a sharp 
stab of concern that her eyes were full of trouble. 

“Bramblestar, I want to stay here,” she mewed. 
“Please let me.” 

Bramblestar blinked. “Why?” 

“Dawnpelt is very close to kitting,’ Leafpool 
explained in a rapid undertone. “And Littlecloud’s herb 
store is pitiful. I could be a real help to him, and 
Jayfeather can manage without me for a few days.” 

Rowanstar was staring at her with horror in his 
eyes. “Are you mouse-brained?” he began. “Do you 
imagine—” 

Leafpool cut him off. “Rowanstar, do you want a 
healthy litter of kits, or don’t you?” While the 
ShadowClan leader was spluttering for an answer, she 
went on, “You know that Clan rivalries mean nothing to 
medicine cats. Will you deny me the chance to do the 
role that StarClan chose for me?” 

Her logic silenced Rowanstar, while Bramblestar 
regarded his medicine cat with admiration. 


“T could do with some help,” Littlecloud admitted. 
“Just for a few days.” 

Rowanstar turned to the old medicine cat with 
compassion in his gaze. “Very well,” he meowed. 

“Please, Bramblestar,” Leafpool begged. “PI be 
back soon.” 

Bramblestar hesitated, then dipped his head. 
“Whatever you want.” 

Beckoning Spiderleg and Cinderheart with a 
flourish of his tail, he said good-bye to Rowanstar and 
led the way toward ThunderClan territory. He was still 
reeling from Leafpool’s unexpected decision. 

“Do you think Leafpool will stay with ShadowClan 
forever?” Cinderheart mewed. “After all, Littlecloud 
hasn’t had an apprentice since Flametail died.” 

A cold shiver passed through Bramblestar to hear 
his own fears voiced out loud. “Of course she’ll come 
back!” he snapped. “She’s a ThunderClan cat.” 

But even though he silenced Cinderheart, he 
couldn’t silence his own misgivings. 

Am I losing control of my Clan? I feel as though 
my cats are slipping through my paws like water. 





CHAPTER 20 
de 


S 


The first cat Bramblestar spotted when he reached 
the makeshift ThunderClan camp was Jayfeather, 
padding up from the opposite direction with 
Brightheart. Both cats were carrying bunches of herbs 
in their jaws. Jayfeather halted in front of the tunnel 
entrance, turned toward Bramblestar’s patrol as 
though he could see them. Then he dropped his herbs 
and bounded over to them. 

“Where’s Leafpool?” he demanded. 

“She stayed behind to help Littlecloud,” 
Bramblestar explained. This isn t going to go well. 

Jayfeather’s neck fur stood on end. “And you let 
her? What about ThunderClan? Don’t you think I’ve 
got enough on my paws, looking after the cats with 
whitecough?” 

“You have Brightheart to help you,” Bramblestar 
pointed out. 

“It’s not the same,” Jayfeather hissed. 

Brightheart, who had followed him over, blinked at 
him, completely unoffended. “PI do whatever I can,” 


she mewed. 

Jayfeather gave a disgusted snort and stalked off. 
Brightheart shot an apologetic glance at Bramblestar 
and hurried after him. 

Across the clearing, Squirrelflight was organizing 
Mousewhisker, Dovewing, and Thornclaw into a 
hunting patrol. On the way out she halted beside 
Bramblestar. 

“How did the meeting go with Rowanstar?” 

Bramblestar described his offer to help 
ShadowClan cope with the fierce kittypets, and how 
Rowanstar had refused. 

Squirrelflight shrugged, though there was 
compassion in her green eyes. “That’s Rowanstar’s 
decision to make,” she commented. 

As Squirrelflight headed off with her patrol, 
Bramblestar noticed Jessy standing close by, listening 
to his account of the visit. He was about to beckon her 
over when Rosepetal, who was spreading the bits of 
Twoleg pelt on a holly bush, called out to her. 

“Hey, Jessy, come and help me freshen up these 
pelts!” 

Jessy bounded across to her immediately. 


Bramblestar was pleased and a little surprised to see 
how well she was settling in. 

“You’d almost think she was a Clan cat,’ he 
remarked to Graystripe, who was padding past him 
with a starling in his jaws. 

Graystripe nodded, dropping his prey to reply. “We 
should have learned by now not to be surprised by 
kittypets,” he mewed with a wry twist to his mouth. 

“Hey, Bramblestar!” Cherryfall popped her head 
out of the tunnel. “Look what we’ve done with the 
new dens!” 

Bramblestar headed toward her, leaving Graystripe 
to carry his prey to the fresh-kill pile. Inside the 
tunnels, he saw that each section had been marked out 
by low walls of interwoven branches that would give 
even more protection from drafts. Within each wall 
were several nests of moss and bracken; stretching out 
a paw, he felt that they were hardly damp at all. 

“How do you like it?” Cherryfall prompted. 

“It’s great,” Bramblestar replied. It looks almost 
comfortable. 

“Irl be even better once Rosepetal gets the 
Twoleg pelts back in,” Cherryfall mewed. “Dustpelt 


and Brackenfur worked out the breaks, and 
Mousewhisker and I helped build them.” 

“Good job, all of you,” Bramblestar purred. “I think 
we’llall sleep better from now on.” 

He padded farther down the tunnel, spotting Purdy 
curled up asleep in the den he shared with the 
apprentices, and lastly reaching the section where 
Jayfeather and Leafpool had their den, next to the sick 
cats. Jayfeather and Brightheart were arranging their 
newly gathered herbs in cracks in the rock. 

Berrynose and Molewhisker were both sleeping; 
their breathing sounded almost back to normal. 
Amberpaw looked much better too, helping Briarlight 
with her exercises by tossing a ball of moss for her to 
catch. Bramblestar noticed uneasily that the injured cat 
couldn’t manage more than a couple of throws without 
having to stop to catch her breath. 

Sandstorm was curled up in her nest, but she 
raised her head and greeted Bramblestar as he 
approached. “How did the visit to ShadowClan go?” 
she asked. 

“Not good,’ Bramblestar admitted. “Rowanstar 
wouldn’t let us help him with the kittypets.” 


“But he was quick enough to accept our medicine 
cat,” Jayfeather put in with a snarl. 

“Leafpool will be back soon,” Bramblestar told 
him, hopmg that was true. A cough from Sandstorm 
drew his attention back to her, and he thought how ill 
she looked, her green eyes bright with fever. “How are 
you feeling?” 

“Oh, fine,” Sandstorm replied. “This fern dust gets 
in my throat, though. I’m going outside for some fresh 
air.” Rising to her paws, she shook some scraps of 
bracken out of her pelt and padded off. 

“How is she really?” Bramblestar asked 
Jayfeather, unable to stifle his anxiety about the ginger 
she-cat. 

“She doesn’t have greencough,’ Jayfeather 
answered, “so she should be okay. But living in a cold, 
damp tunnel doesn’t help.” 

I wish we could go back to the hollow, 
Bramblestar thought. Aloud he mewed, “I think PI go 
check the water levels, and see if they’re starting to go 
down.” 

“PIL come with you.” Jayfeather pushed a few 
stems of tansy into a crack and turned to Brightheart. 


“Stay and finish up here. I won’t be long.” 

Outside in the clearing, Bramblestar spotted 
Lionblaze and Daisy on ther way back into the 
clearing with a load of moss. “We’re going to check 
the water levels,” Bramblestar called. “Do you want to 
come with us?” 

Lionblaze paused, his bundle of moss tucked under 
his chin. 

Daisy gave him a nudge. “Go on,” she urged him. 
“TIl sort out the bedding.” 

“Thanks!” Lionblaze dropped the moss and 
bounded over to jom Bramblestar and Jayfeather. 

Heading into the trees, Bramblestar caught a whiff 
of ThunderClan scent, and came upon Squirrelflight’s 
hunting patrol, already heading back to camp. 
Squirrelflight was carrying a thrush, while Dovewing 
and Thornclaw both had mice. 

“You've done well!” Bramblestar purred. 

Squirrelflight nodded. “I think the prey is starting to 
come back,’ she mumbled around her mouthful of 
feathers. 

“Why don’t you come with us to check the water 
levels?” Bramblestar suggested. 


“Sure.” Squirrelflight dropped her catch at 
Mousewhisker’s paws. “You can take that in. And 
Thornclaw, you can lead the patrol out again. It seems 
like the prey’s running well, so we ought to make the 
most of it.” 

As the rest of the patrol headed for the camp, 
Bramblestar led the way down the slope with 
Squirrelflight at his side, and Lionblaze and Jayfeather 
just behind. He suddenly felt at ease, comfortable and 
happy to be with these cats he knew so well. The 
others seemed to feel the same, their tension and 
anxiety relaxing as they trotted through the trees. 

Scuffling broke out behind them with a mock growl 
from Lionblaze. “Die, ShadowClan trespasser!” 

“Get off, you great lump!” Jayfeather protested, 
though there was laughter in his voice. 

Squirrelflight whipped around. “Honestly! How old 
are you both?” 

The two brothers broke apart. “Sorry,” Lionblaze 
muttered, though his eyes glimmered with mischief. “I 
don’t know what came over me.” 

‘TI get you later,” Jayfeather promised as they set 
out again. 


Its almost like they are kits again... our kits, 
Bramblestar thought. A pang of sorrow pierced him as 
he pictured Hollyleaf. She should be with us. I hope 
she found peace in StarClan. 

Reaching the top of the hollow, the four cats 
peered over, scanning the floodwater that covered their 
dens. 

“It’s just as deep as it was before,” Bramblestar 
meowed, discouraged. 

“T’m not so sure.” Lionblaze pointed with his tail to 
a tangle of soggy roots that stuck out of the cliff above 
where the nursery had been. “See those? They look as 
if they might have been uncovered recently.” 

Bramblestar nodded slowly, trying to remember 
whether the roots had been visible the last time he 
looked. 

“When we went down into the tunnels,” Lionblaze 
meowed, “you scratched on the floor to mark the 
water level. Maybe we could do the same here.” He 
frowned. “Though I don’t see how we could make 
scratch marks on the side of the cliffs.” 

“Maybe we don’t need to,” Squirrelflight put in. 
“We could go to the edge of the flood among the trees, 


and mark the water level there with sticks instead.” 

“Great idea!” Bramblestar agreed. 

Following the top of the hollow, the cats reached 
the water’s edge and paused for a moment, gazing out 
across the lake and the drowned forest. Bramblestar 
felt his paws sinking into mud. 

“Mouse dung!” Jayfeather cursed. He had taken 
an extra pace forward, and now the mud was creeping 
up his legs, hampering him as he tried to backtrack. 

Lionblaze leaned over and grabbed his brother by 
the scruff, hauling him back. “Use your nose, mouse- 
brain!” he hissed. 

Jayfeather shrugged him off, and raised each paw 
in turn to shake off sticky clots of mud. Lionblaze 
jumped back to avoid the shower. 

“The scents are all different,’ Jayfeather mewed 
after a moment. “And the air feels weird on my fur.” 

For a few heartbeats longer Bramblestar stood still, 
contemplating his flooded territory and realizing how 
much had changed—perhaps forever. I wonder if 
we'll ever hunt in that part of the forest again. 

Then Squirrelflight gave him a shove. “Wake up!” 
she meowed. “Let’s look for some sticks.” 


She and Bramblestar and Lionblaze scattered up 
the slope, searching for long, thin sticks that would be 
easy to drive into the mud as markers. They brought 
them back to Jayfeather, who chewed one end into a 
point. 

“This tastes disgusting,’ he muttered, spitting out 
bark. 

“I wish we could mark the level in the hollow like 
this,” Squirrelflight meowed as she drove the first stick 
into the marshy ground. 

“So do I,” Bramblestar agreed. “We’ll just have to 
take note of where the water reaches up to on the 
cliffs.” 

They continued to set markers along the water’s 
edge between the hollow and an ash tree that stood 
with its roots washed by floodwater. 

The training clearing is under there, 
Bramblestar thought sadly. Then he spotted Jayfeather 
creeping up on Lionblaze, who was busy pushing a 
stick into the mud with his back turned. Bramblestar 
opened his jaws to warn Lionblaze, then closed them 
again, watching to see what would happen. 

Jayfeather sneaked up until he was a tail-length 


away from his brother. Then he slammed his paws 
down into the water, throwing up an enormous splash 
that showered Lionblaze from ears to tail Leaping 
backward, Jayfeather avoided the worst of tt. 

Lionblaze spun around with a hiss of fury. “Stupid 
furball!” 

“I said Pd get you.” Jayfeather licked one paw 
complacently and drew it over his ear. 

“You wait!” Lionblaze bared his teeth and leaped 
for his brother, who dashed away into the trees. 

Bramblestar listened to them crashing about, and 
suppressed a mrrow of amusement. 

“Its good to see them having fun for once,” 
Squirrelflight observed, padding up to him. She gave 
another push to Lionblaze’s stick. “There. We’re all 
done.” She broke off, and Bramblestar realized that 
she was staring over his shoulder. Turning, he saw that 
Jessy was watching them from a few tail-lengths 
away. 

“What does she want?” Squirrelflight meowed. 

Bramblestar felt slightly uneasy. “I don’t know. I'll 
go and ask her.” He padded up to the kittypet, 
wondering whether some disaster had overtaken their 


temporary camp. “Is everything okay?” 

Jessy blinked at him, her eyes gleaming. “I’m sorry 
if I’m interrupting,’ she mewed. “Everything’s fine. 
This can wait until later if you’re busy.” 

“No, now’s a good time,” Bramblestar told her. 
Glancing back at Squirrelflight, he called, “Round up 
those two daft furballs and go back to camp.” Then he 
led Jessy along the top of the flood, heading toward the 
ShadowClan border. “What can I do for you?” he 
asked. 

Instead of replying, Jessy stopped and looked out 
over the drowned forest. “I wonder what it was like 
here before the floods came,” she murmured. 

“It was beautiful” Bramblestar replied at once. 
“There was long grass, and patches of fern and 
bramble where the prey could hide. In greenleaf the 
sun would shine through the branches and make 
patterns on the ground. The air would be full of scents 
—fresh green growth, and the warm scents of prey. 
And then in leaf-bare, in the frost and snow, the cold 
would make your pelt tingle, and you’d feel so alive!” 

“You love living here, don’t you?” 

“Yes, I do,” Bramblestar meowed, walking on. “I 


can remember our old home, and I still walk there in 
my dreams, but—but I have always believed that 
StarClan has led us to the right place here.” 

“Are you quite sure about that?” Jessy pressed, 
picking up the note of doubt in his voice. 

“T have to have faith that the floods will go down,” 
Bramblestar told her. “But come on, Jessy,” he added. 
“You didn’t come looking for me just to chat about the 
forest.” 

Jessy narrowed her eyes. “No, I wanted to talk 
about the kittypets who are giving ShadowClan all that 
trouble. I think I know who they are.” 

“You do?” Bramblestar felt suddenly excited. 
“Who?” 

“There’s a gang of kittypets and a few strays who 
like to claim that part of the forest for themselves,” 
Jessy replied. “They hunt there—not that they ever 
catch anything,” she added with a sly sideways glance 
at Bramblestar. 

Will she ever forget that I said that to her? “Go 
on,” he mewed. 

“I don’t know these kittypets well” Jessy 
continued. “I think one’s called Ziggy, and another one 


is Riga. But I know where they live and where they 
like to roam.” 

Bramblestar felt the fur along his spine start to 
rise. “Are you suggesting we attack them without 
ShadowClan’s approval?” 

Jessy shrugged. “It’s a possibility.” 

For a moment Bramblestar was filled with 
admiration for Jessy’s courage, and for how she was 
willing to help wild cats who were completely unknown 
to her. 

“I can see how much your sister means to you,” 
Jessy added. Taken aback by her perceptiveness, 
Bramblestar couldn’t think of anything to say before 
she went on. “Do lots of cats have kin in other Clans?” 

“Great StarClan, no!” Bramblestar exclaimed. 
“Cats are supposed to stay in the Clan where they 
were born. Clan loyalty is very important to us. A cat 
who changed Clans would be thought of as a traitor, 
and it would be hard for their new Clan to trust them. 
Tawnypelt only went to live in ShadowClan because 
our father became their leader.” 

“Wow!” Jessy’s eyes stretched wide. “Why didn’t 
you go with her?” 


Bramblestar hesitated. J cant tell her about 
Tigerstar! We’d be here all day! “It’s 
complicated,” he meowed at last. “ThunderClan has 
always been my home. I miss Tawnypelt, but I’ve 
never regretted my decision.” 

He and Jessy padded on in silence for a few 
moments, until Bramblestar began to pick up the scent 
of ShadowClan border markers. “We should turn back 
here,” he mewed. 

“Okay.” Jessy bounced on her paws. “But we’re 
going to attack these kittypets, right? I can show you 
where to find them. They often go out at night, and 
that would be a really good time to sneak up on them.” 
She jumped up and swiped one paw at a head of cow 
parsley, scattering the tiny white flowers on the grass. 
“We’ll soon teach them to stay away from Clan cats!” 

“Hang on,” Bramblestar warned. “I haven't said 
we're doing it yet. I have to speak with my Clanmates 
first.” 

For a moment Jessy looked wounded. “But—” 

She broke off at the sound of cats brushing through 
the undergrowth. Bramblestar stiffened, then relaxed 
as he picked up ThunderClan scent. A patrol came into 


view with Cloudtail in the lead, followed by Birchfall 
and Whitewing, with her apprentice, Dewpaw. 

“Bramblestar!” Cloudtail ran up to his leader with 
his ears flattened. “Those mangy crow-food eaters 
from ShadowClan have been trespassing again!” 

Bramblestar saw that all the cats in the patrol were 
bristling with anger, their eyes glittering. 

“We picked up their scent several tail-lengths 
inside our border,” Birchfall confirmed. 

“Those kittypets you heard about must be attacking 
them on their other border,’ Whitewing meowed, “so 
they’re trying to hunt on our territory.” 

“We can’t let them get away with it!” Cloudtail 
growled. 

“No, we can't,” Bramblestar agreed. Turning to 
Jessy, he meowed, “It looks like we need your plan.” 


The evening was clear and calm, with a few gaps 
in the clouds that let through stray gleams of red 
sunlight. Long shadows stretched across the clearing 
outside the tunnel, and a fresh breeze stirred the 
branches. 

This is the best weather we’ve had since the 


floods came, Bramblestar thought hopefully. Maybe 
things are changing. 

Jumping to the top of the mudfall, he gave a yowl. 
“Let all cats who are old enough to catch their own 
prey come here outside the tunnel for a Clan meeting!” 

Surprised mews burst from the cats nearest the 
tunnel, who were trying to warm their fur in the last of 
the sunlight. The apprentices broke off their fighting 
practice at the far side of the clearing and pattered 
eagerly across to the bottom of the mudfall, followed 
by their mentors. Daisy, Cherryfall, and Blossomfall 
popped out of the tunnel. Purdy appeared a moment 
later, his pelt stuck all over with moss, and plopped 
himself down beside the apprentices. Jessy bounded 
over to Frankie and Minty, who were sharing a 
blackbird under an arching clump of fern, and chivvied 
them over to join the rest. Jayfeather came to sit at the 
mouth of the tunnel, with the sick cats clustered around 
him. 

“Cats of ThunderClan,” Bramblestar began when 
all the cats were assembled, “and our guests.” He 
dipped his head to the three kittypets. “You all know 
that kittypets have been harassing ShadowClan in the 


woods beyond their top border. Tomorrow I’m going to 
lead a patrol to get rid of them.” 

“What?” Dustpelt sprang to his paws. “Have you 
got bees in your brain?” 

“You offered ShadowClan our help and they turned 
you down,” Graystripe pointed out. “Rowanstar won’t 
thank you for interfering.” 

Several other cats echoed their protests. 
Bramblestar looked down on their bristling fur and 
twitching tails. Its just as well I havent told them 
this was Jessy 8 idea. 

“If the kittypets are allowed to keep attacking 
ShadowClan,” he went on, forcing himself to stay 
calm, “then ShadowClan will start to hunt in our 
territory, or in the woods beyond our border. It’s in our 
own interest to deal with the kittypets.” He was 
relieved to see that several of his cats were looking 
interested, but he knew that he hadn’t won them over 
yet. 

“Why can’t ShadowClan deal with their own 
problems?” Mousewhisker protested. “These are 
kittypets, for StarClan’s sake! How dangerous can 
they be?” 


“Well, we’ve met fierce kittypets in our time,” 
Sandstorm pointed out from her place just inside the 
tunnel. “And ShadowClan is weakened by the floods.” 

“So are we,” Rosepetal retorted. “Why should we 
risk injury to help ShadowClan? What have they ever 
done for us?” 

“Yes, we didn’t survive the Great Battle to fight on 
behalf of ShadowClan,” Brackenfur agreed. 

Bramblestar glanced down and caught Jessy’s eye. 
She looked shocked by the strength of the objections to 
the plan. He noticed that Squirrelflight was watching 
Jessy, too; then she fixed her green gaze straight on 
him. She hadn’t spoken yet. 

One by one the warriors turned to look at their 
deputy, waiting for her to give her opinion. 
Squirrelflight kept her eyes fixed on Bramblestar for a 
long moment, then rose to her paws. Bramblestar 
found himself holding his breath as he waited for her to 
speak. 

“I think we should take action,” she meowed. “We 
can’t let a bunch of kittypets force ShadowClan onto 
our territory. If ShadowClan isn’t strong enough to deal 
with them, then we’ ll have to!” 


Bramblestar saw a ripple of enthusiasm pass 
through the Clan in response to his deputy’s rousing 
words. Loud caterwauls rose into the air from almost 
all the cats, Mousewhisker and Rosepetal among them. 

“That makes sense,” Graystripe declared. 

“Yes! Let’s drive them off!” Thornclaw yowled. 

Blossomfall worked her claws into the ground. 
“The forest is for warriors, not for kittypets!” 

Bramblestar noticed that Frankie and Minty were 
looking a bit unnerved by the protests against kittypets. 
Millie leaned over to them and Bramblestar heard her 
whisper, “Don’t worry, they don’t mean you. They get 
like this sometimes.” 

“Then that's settled’? Bramblestar announced. 
“Warriors who are prepared to fight, join me now.” He 
slithered down from the mudfall, with mud sticking to 
his fur and clogging his claws. At the foot of the pile 
he met Cloudtail, Thornclaw, Cinderheart, Lionblaze, 
Blossomfall, Ivypool, and her apprentice, Snowpaw, all 
pressing forward to volunteer. 

“I can’t let apprentices come,” Bramblestar 
meowed with a glance at Snowpaw. 

Snowpaw took a pace back, looking hurt. 


“Why not?” Ivypool asked Bramblestar. “They 
have to fight sooner or later, and a battle against 
kittypets won’t be as dangerous as fighting another 
Clan.” 

Bramblestar tipped his head on one side. “Good 
point. Okay, Snowpaw, you can come.” 

Snowpaw let out a squeal of delight and leaped 
straight into the air, while his sister, Amberpaw, slid out 
of the tunnel and ran forward. “Me too!” she begged. 

Jayfeather snaked his tail around her neck and 
hauled her back. “Don’t even think about it. You’re far 
too sick.” He ignored Amberpaw’s protests and 
herded her back into the tunnel. 

“What about you, Dewpaw?” Bramblestar 
prompted, seeing the third of the litter hovering close 
by. His eyes were wide and his gray-and-white fur 
looked ruffled. 

“Pm going to stay and help guard the camp,” 
Whitewing announced before her apprentice could 
reply. “Dewpaw can come with you if he likes,” she 
added, glancing at the little cat beside her. 

Dewpaw shook his head. “It’s okay, PI stay and 
help you, Whitewing. You might need me.” 


Bramblestar noticed that Lilypaw had crept closer 
to the front of the crowd of warriors, and he shook his 
head firmly at her mentor, Poppyfrost. Lilypaw is still 
too vulnerable to fight, so soon after Seedpaw’s 
death. Poppyfrost nodded agreement and bent her 
head to speak gently to Lilypaw. 

Squirrelflight thrust her way through the crowd of 
warriors around Bramblestar. “When do we leave?” 

“You don’t,’ Bramblestar told her. “I need you to 
stay and take charge here.” 

Squirrelflight’s green eyes widened in surprise. 
“You mean you’re going yourself? This is just a minor 
skirmish. It doesn’t need the Clan leader!” 

“It was my suggestion,” Bramblestar reminded her. 
“I have to take part and share the risks with my 
Clanmates.” 

Squirrelflight nodded reluctantly. “All right, Pl 
stay.” 

Bramblestar glanced around until he spotted Jessy 
sitting with Frankie and Minty. “Jessy,” he called to 
her, “will you come with us, please? We need you to 
show us where to go.” 

Jessy nodded and rose to her paws to make her 


way over to Bramblestar. 

“A kittypet fighting kittypets?” Squirrelflight hissed 
into Bramblestar’s ear. 

“Actually, this was Jessy’s idea,’ Bramblestar 
whispered back. “She knows these kittypets.” 

Squirrelflight’s eyes narrowed to green slits. “Why 
does she want to help ShadowClan?” she asked 
suspiciously. “Are we settling an old score for her 
against her enemies?” 

Bramblestar realized that was a fair question. “No, 
I trust her,” he replied. “And I respect her for having 
the courage to suggest it.” 

Squirrelflight let out a snort. “Just be careful, and 
remember that we don’t really know her at all.” 

Frankie had followed Jessy over to the Clan leader, 
and now he spoke up. ‘Pll come too, Bramblestar, if 
you like.” 

Bramblestar looked at him, and at Minty, who was 
peering around his shoulder, her eyes wide with horror 
at the thought of going into battle. “No,” he meowed. 
“Thanks for offering, but you stay here and go on with 
your training. You too, Minty.” His gaze swept around 
his assembled warriors. “The rest of us leave at 


dawn!” 





CHAPTER 21 
de 


S 


Thin, gray light covered the forest. Long before the 
sun would crest the ridge, Bramblestar led his cats out 
of camp and brushed through the dew-soaked 
undergrowth, straight up the slope to the top border. 
His paws tingled with anticipation as he and his 
Clanmates passed their own scent markers and 
entered the unknown forest. 

Crossing the ridge, Bramblestar let Jessy take the 
lead alng the downward slope, well outside 
ShadowClan territory. None of them had ever set paw 
in this part of the forest before. They padded warily 
among huge oak trees, their gnarled roots stretched out 
as if to trip careless paws. Everything was silent in the 
dawn chill. 

Gradually the oaks thinned out, to be replaced by 
dark, slender pines. The ground was thick with fallen 
needles that gave way slightly under every paw step. 
Blossomfall sprang a tail-length from the ground at the 
loud alarm call of some hidden bird, then licked her 
chest fur in embarrassment and tried to look 


unconcerned. 

“Don't worry,” Bramblestar told her. “We’re all 
getting nervous. This is new for all of us.” 

“I don’t like the way we can be seen at such a 
distance,” Cloudtail meowed, waving his tail at the 
ranks of pine trees, the ground between them clear of 
undergrowth. ‘TI stick out like a mushroom.” 

“So will 1,” Snowpaw added worriedly. 

“You could try rolling in mud and pine needles,” 
Thornclaw suggested. “Then these kittypets might 
think that you’re a couple of bushes.” 

“That’s not a bad idea,” Cloudtail responded. He 
spotted a muddy hollow underneath a tree and led 
Snowpaw over there. Bramblestar and the others 
watched as the two cats rolled over in the mud until 
their fur stood out in sticky spikes. 

“That’s so weird!” Jessy exclaimed, intrigued and 
with a glint of amusement in her eyes. “The lengths 
you warriors will go to in order to stalk an enemy!” 

Thornclaw gave her a defensive look. “We’re not 
kittypets, you know!” 

As the cats set out again, Bramblestar began 
picking up traces of ShadowClan scent, but they were 


all stale, and though at one point the scent was mixed 
with a tang of squirrel blood, he didn’t think that 
ShadowClan had been this way for some days. 

Before they had gone much farther, Cloudtail came 
to walk alongside Bramblestar, who tried not to let his 
nose twitch at the reek of mud coming from the 
warrior’s white pelt. “I’m a bit worried about Jessy,” 
Cloudtail whispered. “Should we really be taking a 
kittypet into battle?” 

“I know she hasn't had much training,” 
Bramblestar mewed. “We’ll just have to make sure 
she doesn’t get cornered one-on-one.” 

Cloudtail grunted. “We might all be too busy 
watching out for our own tails.” 

“Im looking forward to this!” Bramblestar heard 
Lionblaze speaking just behind him, excitement in his 
voice. “It's been moons since we’ve had to use our 
battle moves.” 

“Which is a good thing,” Cinderheart replied. 

“T know,” Lionblaze told her. “It’s not like I want to 
go through the Great Battle again; don’t think that. But 
how dangerous will it be, teaching a few kittypets to 
keep away from Clan cats?” 


Bramblestar glanced back over his shoulder. 
“Kittypets who have already defeated ShadowClan,” 
he pointed out. 

Lionblaze’s eyes gleamed. “Oh, ShadowClan!” 

“Remember that you don’t have your—your 
power anymore,” Cinderheart warned him. “You can 
get injured, just like any other cat.” 

“PI be careful” Lionblaze told her, flexing his 
claws. “Don’t worry.” 

Cinderheart looked doubtful, as if she didn’t quite 
believe him, but she said no more. 

“Hey, Bramblestar!” Ivypool’s voice came from a 
few fox-lengths away. “Come and look at this!” 

Ivypool and her apprentice had been ranging away 
on one side; now they were standing in front of a drift 
of white on the ground. Padding closer, Bramblestar 
picked up the scent of ShadowClan, and realized that 
the white stuff was a scatter of pigeon feathers. 

“ShadowClan must have killed here,” Ivypool 
meowed. 

Bramblestar nodded; the scent was fresh, too, 
much more recent than the other traces he had picked 


up. 


“ShadowClan seems to be doing well enough on 
their own,” Thornclaw declared, bounding up and 
giving the feathers a sniff. “Do they really need our 
help with these kittypets?” 

“One dead pigeon doesn’t mean a full fresh-kill 
pile,’ Bramblestar meowed. “And remember that our 
borders will be threatened if ShadowClan goes 
hungry.” 

But as the patrol set out again, Bramblestar 
admitted to himself that he was starting to have his 
own doubts about their mission. / can t let Tawnypelt's 
Clan suffer, he insisted. And we need to protect our 
own territory. But his paws prickled at the thought of 
being caught here by a ShadowClan patrol. 

A little farther on, Bramblestar realized that the 
pine trees had begun to thin out. He stiffened as he 
caught a faint trace of a Twoleg and a dog, then 
relaxed as he realized that they were long gone. 

Jessy trotted up to his side. “Do you see that tree 
stump?” she mewed, waving her tail at the remains of 
a lightning-blasted tree. “I’m pretty sure I recognize tt. 
We must be getting close.” She went on more 
cautiously, sniffing here and there, while the rest of the 


patrol bunched together as they followed. 

“There’s kittypet scent here,’ Jessy announced, 
raising her head. “And I’m pretty sure they’re the ones 
who have been harassing ShadowClan.” 

“How sure are you?” Blossomfall pressed. “We 
can’t attack innocent kittypets.” 

“No kittypets are innocent!” Snowpaw declared. 
“They’re all fat and lazy.” 

Jessy cleared her throat meaningfully. 

Snowpaw glanced sideways at her, his ears 
flattened. “Sorry,” he muttered. 

“We wont fight any needless battles,” 
Bramblestar assured his Clanmates. “Ivypool, you go 
off in that direction”—he waved his tail—“and 
Cinderheart, you go that way. Look for more traces of 
the kittypets, and any sign of ShadowClan patrols.” 

I really dont want to be caught here, he thought 
as the two she-cats headed off in opposite directions. 
These are ShadowClan hunting grounds now. 

Bramblestar waited until Cinderheart and Ivypool 
returned, reporting no further traces of the kittypets. 

“We’ll have to go closer to their dens,” Jessy 
meowed. “This way.” She led them on until the trees 


thinned out even more, and dense undergrowth filled 
the gaps between the trunks. Wriggling his way 
through thick bushes that snagged his fur and soaked 
him to the skin, Bramblestar emerged into an open 
space with a line of Twoleg fences at the far side. 
Twoleg dens, built of reddish stone, reared up beyond 
the fences. 

The rest of the patrol emerged, bristling at the 
unfamiliar surroundings and the strong scent of 
Twolegs, though Cloudtail padded over to Bramblestar 
and murmured, “This reminds me of the old forest, 
where the trees met the Twolegplace.” 

“You’re right,” Bramblestar agreed. “The same 
plants, the same kind of smells . . .” 

“My mother, Princess, came from a den like 
these,” Cloudtail added. “So did Firestar.” 

Bramblestar nodded, feeling a pang of unexpected 
regret that he would never see the old forest again. 
But a heartbeat later he was distracted by Jessy calling 
to him. 

“I know where I am now! I recognize that big tree 
with the white flowers. Come on!” 

She began running ahead, more confident with 


every stride, while the rest of the patrol raced after 
her. 

“Look, there’s the den with the broken fence!” 
Jessy meowed. “And the place where I played with 
some little Twolegs. It’s not far now.” 

“I think she’s just showing off,” Thornclaw 
grumbled as he bounded along at Bramblestar’s side. 

“We’d be lost without her,’ Lionblaze pointed out. 
“Literally.” 

Finally Jessy stopped and the patrol gathered 
around her. “The kittypet who lives behind this fence is 
called Victor, I think,” she began. “He comes into the 
woods with Ziggy and Riga. If any cats are going to 
cause trouble, it’Il be those three.” 

“Thanks, Jessy.” Bramblestar turned to his 
Clanmates. “Stay here,” he ordered. “Jessy and I will 
scout ahead.” 

He noticed that the warriors didn’t look too happy, 
but none of them protested as he jumped up to the top 
of the fence. Jessy followed him and together they 
looked down onto the neat square of grass behind the 
Twoleg den, surrounded by bushes and brightly colored 
Twoleg flowers. 


“No sign of Victor,” Jessy commented. “He might 
have gone to visit the others.” 

“Then let’s go look,” Bramblestar meowed. 

With Jessy in the lead they ran along the top of the 
fence, checking the enclosed spaces, each with its 
square of grass. Bramblestar could scent several 
different cats, but they didn’t see any. 

Suddenly a stronger aroma wafted over 
Bramblestar. “Who are you, and what do you want?” a 
voice growled from behind him. 

Bramblestar turned, balancing awkwardly on the 
narrow fence-top. A muscular black-and-white tom 
stood in front of him, his teeth bared in the beginnings 
of a snarl. 

“Who wants to know?” Bramblestar asked. “Are 
you Victor?” 

“No, Pm a friend of his,” the black-and-white tom 
replied. “My name’s Webster.” He peered around 
Bramblestar and spoke to Jessy. “I’ve seen you 
around, whatever your name is. What are you doing 
with these wild cats?” 

“T’m Jessy, and this is Bramblestar,” Jessy replied. 
“We’ve come to tell you to leave the wild cats alone.” 


In spite of the defiance in her voice, her statement 
sounded feeble. Why should they do what we say, 
unless we back it up with our claws? Bramblestar 
thought. 

“Oh, sure.” Webster was scornful “We’ll do 
exactly what you tell us—not!” 

Bramblestar felt exposed on the fence-top, his legs 
wobbling as he unsheathed his claws. Webster flicked 
his tail-tip contemptuously and took a threatening stride 
forward so that he was almost nose-to-nose with 
Bramblestar. Though Bramblestar was aware that 
behind him Jessy was bristling, ready for a fight, he 
knew that he couldn’t take on cats like this, so far 
above the forest floor. 

Is Webster really going to pounce while we're 
on top of the fence? Bramblestar wondered. Sure, 
kittypets have good balance, but not that good! 

“Get ready to jump down,” he muttered to Jessy. 
“Take the fight to the ground.” 

“Oh, yes,” a new voice purred from behind him, 
beyond Jessy. “What a good idea.” 

Bramblestar glanced over his shoulder to see three 
kittypets crowding up to Jessy on top of the fence. All 


three of them had bristling fur and bright, bold eyes. 

“That’s Victor,” Jessy murmured, pomting with her 
tail at the pale brown tabby who was in the lead. “The 
ginger she-cat behind him is Scarlet, and the silver 
tabby is O’Hara. Ziggy and Riga will be somewhere 
close by; you can be sure of that.” 

O’Hara waved his tail at Bramblestar. “So pleased 
to meet you,” he purred. 

As if his words were a signal, all four kittypets 
charged at Bramblestar and Jessy. 

“Jump!” Bramblestar yowled. 

Together he and Jessy sprang down from the 
fence on the forest side. Screeching furiously, the 
kittypets launched themselves after them. Bramblestar 
was knocked off his paws as O’Hara landed on top of 
him. He rolled over and sprang up again, raking his 
claws along the silver tabby’s side. 

Jessy was bravely tussling with Webster, but for all 
her courage she was much lighter than Webster and 
she was getting the worst of it. Webster was obviously 
an experienced fighter, gripping Jessy in his claws so 
she couldn’t maneuver to strike. O’Hara had backed 
off, and Bramblestar was about to leap to help Jessy 


when two bodies slammed into him from behind. He let 
out a yowl as he felt claws digging into his shoulders. 
Twisting around, he found himself facing Victor and 
Scarlet, their eyes gleaming and their shoulder fur 
bristling as they tried to thrust him to the ground. 

Remembering his battle training, Bramblestar let 
himself go limp, sinking to the ground with the two 
kittypets on top of him. 

“Coward!” Scarlet jeered. “I thought you wild cats 
could fight.” 

Not wasting breath on a reply, Bramblestar 
exploded upward, balancing on his hind paws while he 
struck out at his enemies with both forepaws. His 
claws scored down Victor’s muzzle; the kittypet let out 
a yelp of pain and scrambled back out of range. But 
although Bramblestar’s second blow caught Scarlet 
across her ear, she barely paused, shaking her head to 
clear it, then leaped at Bramblestar again. Victor 
recovered himself and joined her, bearing Bramblestar 
to the ground. As his paws gave way he caught a 
glimpse of a slender black cat dashing up to join the 
fray, with a ginger-and-white kittypet hard on his paws. 

Oh, no! That must be Ziggy and Riga! Jessy and 


I are crow-food! “ThunderClan, attack!” he 
screeched. 

Bramblestar struggled under the weight of Scarlet 
and Victor. He was beginning to think his Clanmates 
hadn’t heard him when he heard yowls of defiance, so 
loud that they swamped the screeches of the battle, 
and the sound of cats crashing through the 
undergrowth. 

Thank StarClan! My warriors are here! 

A heartbeat later the weight of the kittypets 
vanished and Bramblestar caught a glimpse of 
Cinderheart chasing Victor into the bushes. Ivypool 
darted in to slash at Scarlet from one side, while 
Snowpaw copied her on the other side, leaving Scarlet 
not knowing where to defend herself. 

You’ve taught your apprentice well, Ivypool, 
Bramblestar thought. 

Cloudtail had torn Webster away from Jessy and 
was driving him back with repeated blows to his ears. 
Jessy staggered to her paws, battered and bleeding, but 
still looking around for the next attack. Bramblestar 
headed toward her, but was blocked by the ginger-and- 
white kittypet, who hurtled toward him with growls of 


anger and aimed a blow at him with claws extended. 
Bramblestar ducked under the blow and thrust himself 
at the kittypet’s chest, driving him to the ground, then 
leaped on top of him, battering at his belly with all four 
paws. The kittypet wriggled free and fled. 

Bramblestar rose and looked around him, his head 
reeling from the force of the battle. J never thought 
kittypets could fight like this! He saw O’Hara trip 
Lionblaze, then crouch on top of him, raking his claws 
across Lionblaze’s shoulders, until Cmderheart grabbed 
him and chased him off. Lionblaze rose to his paws, 
glaring after Cinderheart with fury in his eyes. 
Bramblestar could feel his rage that Cinderheart 
thought he had to be rescued, even though blood was 
dripping from her wounds too. 

Gradually the ThunderClan cats began to drive the 
kittypets back toward the Twoleg fences, their warrior 
skills overcoming their adversaries’ uncontrolled 
attack. Bramblestar spotted Jessy copying his move of 
ducking under a blow from the black kittypet and 
shoving her to the ground. The black kittypet rolled 
away from Jessy’s claws and fled. 

Jessy learns fast! Bramblestar thought admiringly. 


“Great move!” he called to her. 

Victor lunged out of a nearby bush and hurled 
himself at Blossomfall, who staggered under the 
weight of his body. Bramblestar sprang after them and 
hauled Victor off, sinking his teeth into the kittypet’s 
tail. Victor let out a shriek of pain and whirled to face 
him, but he was off-balance, and Bramblestar easily 
crushed him to the ground. 

Standing over Victor, pinning him down with both 
hind paws, Bramblestar raised his claws to slash 
through Victor’s throat. “Do you give in?” he growled. 

Victor bared his teeth in a snarl. “Kill me if you 
want, flea-pelt!” 

Bramblestar stepped back, letting the defeated 
kittypet scramble to his paws. “Do you give in?” he 
repeated. 

Victor gave him a puzzled look, as if he wasn’t 
sure why he was still alive. The rest of the kittypets, 
apart from the black cat who had fled, gathered 
around, their expressions still threatening. 

“Warriors do not kill if there is no need,” 
Bramblestar told them. “But you must let the wild cats 
hunt here in the forest.” 


“Why should we?” Scarlet sneered. 

“Because if you don’t, we’ll come back with more 
warriors, and show less mercy,” Blossomfall growled. 

The kittypets still hesitated, until Lionblaze stepped 
forward. His golden pelt was soaked in blood, and his 
eyes glared menace. He didn’t need to speak; all the 
kittypets edged away from him. 

“All right,” Victor agreed at last, dull anger in his 
voice. “We’ll leave the squirrel munchers alone.” 

“Good.” Bramblestar was about to call his patrol 
together to leave, when a new voice spoke behind him. 

“What in the name of StarClan do you think you’re 
doing?” 





CHAPTER 22 
de 


S 


Bramblestar whirled around. Rowanstar stood a 
fox-length away, flanked by Pinenose, Ferretclaw, and 
his apprentice, Spikepaw. The fur of all four cats was 
bristling with rage, so that they looked twice their 
normal size. Their furious gazes were fixed on the 
ThunderClan cats. 

“How dare you come here?” Rowanstar hissed. 

Bramblestar was aware of the kittypets slinking 
away. He took a pace forward, trying to find the right 
words to defend himself and his patrol. Fox dung! I’d 
hoped we could get away without ShadowClan 
knowing we were here. 

“What makes you think you have to fight our 
battles for us?” Rowanstar snarled. “This is our 
hunting territory now. What gives you the right even to 
set paw here?” He dug his claws hard into the ground 
as if what he really wanted was to rake them across 
Bramblestar’s face. “You came to offer us help, and 
we refused. Why couldn’t you take no for an 
answer?” 


“T thought—” Bramblestar began. 

“Thought!” Rowanstar spat. “That was Firestar’s 
problem, too. He always thought he knew what was 
best for every Clan.” 

Stung, Bramblestar forced himself to stay calm. 
He didn’t want other cats to think he viewed himself 
as superior to the other leaders, interfering when it 
wasn’t needed. “I found out Jessy had inside 
information,” he meowed, angling his ears toward the 
brown she-cat. “She knew where these troublesome 
kittypets lived.” 

Rowanstar stared at Jessy. “Because she’s a 
kittypet herself, right? So ThunderClan is taking in 
kittypets now?” he sneered. “What a surprise!” He 
lashed his tail. “Stay out of our business, Bramblestar, 
and concentrate on your own Clan.” 

At a word of command from Rowanstar, the 
ShadowClan cats encircled the ThunderClan patrol and 
began to drive them back toward their own territory, 
keeping them tightly bunched together. Bramblestar 
felt as though they were being escorted back to the 
border like trespassers. Whatever Rowanstar says, 
we saved their miserable pelts, he thought furiously, 


but he remained silent, recognizing that nothing he 
could say would help matters. 

They crossed ShadowClan territory and reached 
the ThunderClan border near the grassy clearing. 

“Now get out and stay out,” Rowanstar growled. 
With a nod of his head he gathered his patrol and 
headed back into his own territory. 

“The ungrateful, mange-ridden  furballs!” 
Snowpaw’s words exploded from him as soon as the 
ShadowClan cats had vanished into the undergrowth. 
“We were helping them! They should be thanking us!” 

“Hmm . . .” Ivypool flicked her ears. “Maybe we 
should have waited to be asked before we helped.” 

“Maybe we shouldn’t have helped at all” 
Thornclaw mewed. 

“I can't believe they were so angry,” Jessy 
murmured, her eyes still wide with shock. “I’m sorry, 
Bramblestar. I didn’t mean to get you into trouble.” 

“It’s not your fault,” Bramblestar told her. “I made 
the decision, and if it keeps ShadowClan patrols out of 
our territory, it was the right one.” 

I wish I was really convinced of that, he thought 
to himself. Gazing at his battered warriors, he 


wondered if he had gone into battle for the right 
reasons, or if he had allowed himself to be swayed by 
Jessy’s bold ideas. 


It was after sunhigh by the time Bramblestar led 
his cats back into their camp. Most of the cats were 
stretched out in the clearing, trying to warm 
themselves in a few pale gleams of sunlight that 
pierced the ragged cloud. Squirrelflight, who was 
talking to Brackenfur near the tunnel entrance, sprang 
to her paws as soon as she spotted the returning patrol. 

“Great StarClan!” she exclaimed, bounding over to 
them. “What happened?” 

“The kittypets happened,” Bramblestar responded 
briefly. 

“But . . . you're so badly hurt!” Squirrelflight’s 
green gaze was filled with horror as she turned and 
raced back to the tunnel. “Jayfeather!” she yowled. 
“Come here! You’re needed!” 

Immediately the medicine cat popped out of the 
tunnel. His jaws parted to taste the air; Bramblestar 
realized he would recognize the reek of blood at once. 

“T knew this was a mistake,” Jayfeather mewed as 


he approached the patrol and began to sniff at their 
wounds. “Especially when Leafpool is still in the 
ShadowClan camp. I need her here!” 

Oh, StarClan! Bramblestar thought. J hope 
Rowanstar isnt taking out his anger on my 
medicine cat! 

Frankie and Minty bounded across the clearing to 
Jessy, looking shocked when they saw the blood 
welling from the scratches on her shoulders. 

“Did you really fight?” Minty asked, her eyes 
stretched wide. 

“Did you chase off the kittypets?” meowed 
Frankie. 

Bramblestar listened while Jessy described the 
battle, apparently relishing the danger and pleased that 
they had defeated Victor and his friends. Frankie and 
Minty listened breathlessly. 

“Wow!” Frankie looked more impressed than 
scared. “I wish I’d been with you.” 

Minty shuddered. “I don’t.” 

“It was great!” Jessy’s eyes glowed with the 
memory. “I know we got hurt, but it was worth it to 
teach those arrogant kittypets a lesson!” 


Bramblestar realized that while the kittypets were 
talking, Brackenfur had padded up to his side. “Are 
you sure you weren’t settling kittypet scores?” he 
murmured. 

For a heartbeat, Bramblestar wasn’t sure. No, he 
told himself firmly. Jessy was only trying to help. 

Before he could reply to Brackenfur, a groan from 
Lionblaze distracted him. The golden-furred warrior 
staggered and flopped over on his side. “The pain... .” 
he gasped. 

“I told you so!” Cinderheart shrieked as she ran to 
his side. “When will you learn that you’re not 
invulnerable anymore?” 

She nudged Lionblaze to his paws while Jayfeather 
helped to support him on the other side. Together the 
two cats half carried, half dragged him into the tunnel 
to have his wounds treated. The rest of the patrol 
followed. 

“Mouse-bram!” Jayfeather muttered angrily as he 
went. “You’re all mouse-brained. And all over a bunch 
of kittypets!” 

Discouraged, Bramblestar watched them go. He 
could sense the depression among the Clan, the sense 


that although they had won the battle, it was a hollow 
victory. Only the kittypets seemed to be happy. 

“Come on,” he meowed to Jessy, touching her 
shoulder with his tail. “You need to go to Jayfeather 
and have your wounds treated.” As she turned away 
from her friends and followed him to the tunnel, he 
added, “Thank you for your courage, Jessy. I know the 
battle was harder for you than for any of us.” 

Jessy halted, gazing into his eyes. “I just copied 
what you did,” she mewed. “I had the best teacher.” 

For a moment Bramblestar didn’t know what to 
say to her. But before the silence could stretch out, 
Squirrelflight came padding up. Jessy dipped her head 
to Bramblestar and headed inside to see Jayfeather. 

Bramblestar braced himself for a scolding from his 
deputy, ready to defend himself. But to his surprise, 
Squirrelflight’s gaze was sympathetic. 

“You had to do something,’ she meowed. “We 
can’t have ShadowClan hunting in our territory, and 
this was a way to stop them.” 

“That’s what I wanted to do,” Bramblestar 
responded. 

“The trouble is,” Squirrelflight went on, “it could be 


seen as interfering, insulting to ShadowClan, and a 
stupid risk to our own warriors.” 

Bramblestar sighed. “You’re right,” he admitted. 

Squirrelflight leaned toward him and gave his ears 
a brisk lick. “It’s behind us,” she told him. “We need to 
focus on our own Clanmates now.” 

As she finished speaking, Sandstorm padded up 
with a mouse dangling from her jaws. “Come on, 
Bramblestar, you need to eat.” 

Bramblestar realized that his belly was growling 
with hunger. The warm scent of the mouse made his 
jaws water, but he hesitated for a moment, looking 
around until he had checked that all his patrol had 
headed into the tunnel to have Jayfeather deal with 
their injuries. Then he crouched down and bit into the 
mouse. 

“Thanks, Sandstorm,” he mumbled around his 
mouthful. 

While he was eating, Graystripe appeared, giving 
him a friendly nod. “I know you’re worried about 
whether you did the right thing,’ he began. “But you 
shouldn’t. Firestar would have done exactly the same.” 

Bramblestar winced. “That’s what Rowanstar 


said.” 

Graystripe was quiet for a moment, while 
Bramblestar gulped down the rest of the mouse. When 
he spoke again, he seemed to be aware of exactly 
what Bramblestar was thinking. “You know, Firestar 
wouldn’t have seen it as interfering. He truly believed 
that if another Clan needed our help, it was our duty to 
give it.” 

“But it’s not,” Bramblestar pointed out, swiping his 
tongue around his whiskers. “Not according to the 
warrior code. My loyalty should be to my own 
Clanmates, no other cats.” 

Graystripe snorted. “There’s such a thing as basic 
decency,” he pointed out. 

“What would you have done?” Bramblestar asked. 

“Followed Firestar,’ Graystripe replied without 
hesitation. 

While Bramblestar was thinking that over, Purdy 
ambled out of the tunnel and settled down beside him. 
“Y’know, this reminds me of when I was a young cat, 
livin’ with my Upwalker,” he began. 

Bramblestar suppressed a sigh. Purdy, this isnt 
the time for one of your long-winded stories. But 


there was no stopping Purdy, who embarked on a 
complicated tale of how he had helped a cat in the den 
next door deal with his Upwalker’s new dog, and how 
the cat had then crept into Purdy’s den and stolen his 
food. 

“Well, I said to myself, I’m not puttin’ up with 
that, sol...” 

Bramblestar stopped listening as a clump of fern at 
the edge of the clearing shivered and Leafpool 
emerged. Her fur was ruffled and she had an agitated 
air. 

Bramblestar bounded across the clearing to her 
side. “Leafpool! Are you okay?” 

“Rowanstar asked me to leave!” Leafpool’s eyes 
were sparkling with indignation. “He said he’d had 
enough of ThunderClan interference. Bramblestar, 
what have you done?” 

Ivypool and Cinderheart appeared from the tunnel 
at that moment, their wounds treated with cobwebs 
and poultices of marigold. They helped Bramblestar 
explain to Leafpool what had happened in the battle 
with the kittypets. 

“How could you be so mouse-brained?” Leafpool 


sighed, shaking her head. “The medicine-cat code 
extends to helping other Clans, but not the warrior 
code. You should stop trying to imagine what Firestar 
would have done, and be true to yourself.” 

“And Lionblaze is badly hurt,” Cinderheart added. 

“What?” Leafpool paused for a heartbeat, her 
eyes stretched wide with shock. Then without another 
word she raced to the tunnel and vanished inside. 

Be true to myself? Bramblestar thought, looking 
after her glumly. His responsibilities weighed as heavy 
on his shoulders as if he were trying to carry the whole 
forest. 

I wish I knew how. 





CHAPTER 23 
de 


S 


Bramblestar sat in the shelter of a hazel bush, 
watching Minty creep up on a mouse. Frankie and 
Jessy, the other members of the patrol, were watching 
from farther around the edge of the clearing. 

I can t believe this! Bramblestar thought wryly. A 
hunting patrol of kittypets! 

But in the quarter moon since the expedition into 
ShadowClan’s hunting grounds, all three of them were 
improving their tracking skillis—even Minty, who had 
the twin advantages of being small and light-pawed. 
The mouse, nibbling something among the roots of a 
beech tree, had no idea that she was stalking it. She 
had even remembered to check the wind direction. 

Suddenly Minty leaped forward and trapped the 
mouse under an outstretched paw. “Got it!” she 
exclaimed. 

The mouse let out a squeal of terror. 

“Oh, poor thing!” Minty sprang back, raising her 
paw, and the mouse scuttled off. 

Frankie shook his head with an exaggerated sigh, 





then took off after the mouse and killed it with a quick 
blow to the head. 

“Neat catch!” Bramblestar praised him as he 
padded back with the body dangling from his jaws. 

Minty’s head was hanging as she rejoined the 
patrol. “I’m sorry,” she mewed. “It freaks me out 
when they squeal.” 

“It doesn’t freak you out anymore when you eat 
them, though,” Jessy pointed out. 

“I know. Pll try to do better next time,” Minty 
promised. 

“Your stalking was very good,” Bramblestar told 
her. “Why don’t you see if you can scent some more 
prey?” 

Obediently Minty began sniffing around, and soon 
picked up another scent trail, following it across the 
clearing with her nose to the ground. 

“Well done!” Bramblestar called to her. 

“This is odd,’ Minty muttered. “I don’t know this 
scent, but it must be prey, right?” 

Bramblestar and the others watched as she 
vanished among some brambles at the other side of the 
clearing, then froze with only her hindquarters and her 


tail sticking out. Feeling his pelt begin to prickle with 
apprehension, Bramblestar opened his jaws to taste the 
air. In the same heartbeat, Minty began to back slowly 
out of the thicket. 

“Er . . . this isn’t prey at all” she mewed. 

The reek of fox hit Bramblestar in the throat as a 
snarl sounded from the midst of the brambles. Minty 
turned and fled across the clearing, her belly fur 
brushing the grass and her tail streaming out. A young 
fox exploded out of the thicket behind her. 

“Stay back!” Bramblestar snapped at the kittypets. 

Bounding forward, Bramblestar met the fox at the 
center of the clearing and reared up on his hind legs to 
rake the claws of both forepaws across the fox’s 
muzzle. The fox let out a bark of mingled pain and 
surprise, and lunged at Bramblestar, its jaws gaping. 
Bramblestar ducked aside and managed to land a blow 
on the fox’s flank before he darted back out of range. 

The fox whirled to follow him, but it was already 
looking confused. /t didnt expect its prey to fight 
back, Bramblestar thought with satisfaction as he 
dashed in again and clawed its ears with a swift slash 
of his paw. Letting out a high-pitched screech of terror, 


the fox backed off, then spun around and fled out of 
the clearing, vanishing among a thick clump of ferns. 
At the same moment another ThunderClan hunting 
patrol raced into the clearing, with Mousewhisker in 
the lead. 

“We heard the fight!” Mousewhisker gasped. “Are 
you okay?” 

“Fine,” Bramblestar panted. “Take your patrol and 
follow it,” he added, “all the way to its den.” 

“Right.” Mousewhisker waved his tail to the rest 
of his patrol, and vanished into the ferns on the trail of 
the fox. 

Its a good thing they turned up, Bramblestar 
thought. We cant hope to clear all the forest of 
foxes, but we need to know where they are, 
especially now that we're hunting across the 
border. 

The three kittypets crowded around Bramblestar, 
their eyes wide with shock. 

“That was amazing!” Frankie exclaimed. 

“I never thought a cat could take on a fox like 
that,” Jessy added, her eyes glowing. “It was the 
bravest thing I’ve ever seen!” 


“It wasn’t hard,” Bramblestar mewed, wanting to 
scuffle his paws in the earth like an embarrassed 
apprentice. “It was a young fox, and easy to confuse. 
Besides, it’s quite common for us to have to chase off 
a fox or a badger.” 

“A badger!” Minty squeaked. “Purdy told me 
about those. They’re huge!” She glanced around her 
fearfully as if she expected a massive black-and-white 
animal to erupt out of the bushes at any moment. 

“Believe me, they’re really rare,’ Bramblestar 
reassured. “We chased the badgers out of the forest a 
long time ago. But I can show you a few techniques to 
keep in mind, if you like.” 

Minty took a pace back, looking as if she might 
never leave the tunnels again. But Jessy and Frankie 
both pricked their ears with interest. 

“Yes, show us,” Frankie mewed. “You never 
know; we might meet something nasty.” 

“Mostly you use the fighting techniques you’re 
already learning,’ Bramblestar explained. “But you 
need to practice dashing in to strike and then away 
again, like I did just now. That works even better with 
badgers, because they’re slower than foxes. Another 


move you can try is to spring onto the badger’s back. 
You can claw it to your heart’s content up there, and it 
can’t get at you.” 

“On its back?” Minty breathed, horrified. 

“Show me the spring,” Jessy urged. 

“Okay.” Bramblestar took a pace forward that 
brought him to her side. “First, get into the hunter’s 
crouch.” As Jessy pressed herself to the ground, he 
added, “Now, remember that your hind legs—” 

He broke off as he spotted movement in the corner 
of his eye, and looked around to see Squirrelflight 
emerge into the clearing. She bounded over to him with 
an anxious look in her green eyes. 

“I heard about the fox,” she told him. “Is 
everything okay?” Glancing down at Jessy, she went 
on, “Uh... what are you doing?” 

“Discussing ways to fight off a badger,” 
Bramblestar meowed. 

“Oh... are you?” There was an odd note of 
strain in Squirrelflight’s voice. “We met a badger once 
in the old forest; do you remember? Me and you and 
Thornclaw, when I was still an apprentice.” 

She raised her head, and her eyes locked with 


Bramblestar’s. His memories came flooding back. She 
looked at me like that back then, too, he recalled. 
Just for a heartbeat, as we ran from that badger. 

Squirrelflight gave her pelt a shake. “I'll go check 
for any more traces of that fox,” she mewed. 

“Be careful,” Bramblestar warned her. 

“I can look after myself,” Squirrelflight responded. 
“You trained me well.” There was warmth in her 
voice, but the brilliance of her gaze faded as she 
looked down at Jessy. She swung around abruptly and 
loped out of the clearing. 

Bramblestar glanced down at Jessy, patiently 
waiting. Great StarClan! he thought. Is Squirrelflight 
jealous because I’m training Jessy now? That's 
ridiculous! 

Jessy wriggled out of the crouch and turned half 
away, giving her chest fur a few vigorous licks. 
Bramblestar thought she looked embarrassed. 

“We should head back to the tunnels,” he decided. 
“Frankie, don’t forget your mouse.” 

‘Tve decided that if I meet any foxes or badgers 
I’m going to run away very fast,’ Minty announced as 
they trekked back toward the camp. “Or climb a tree. 


They can’t climb trees, can they?” she added 
anxiously to Bramblestar. 

“No, they can’t,” he reassured her. 

“Then that’s what PI do,” Minty decided. 

On the way back, a light rain began to fall, quickly 
becoming heavier. Bramblestar lashed his tail with 
frustration. After a few dry days, he had hoped that 
the bad weather was over. 

When they arrived at the tunnel entrance, he found 
Lilypaw, Snowpaw, Dewpaw, and Amberpaw dashing 
up with bunches of leaves in their jaws to cover up the 
fresh-kill pile, which had only been moved into the 
open the day before. Poppyfrost, Lilypaw’s mentor, 
was supervising them. 

“Hurry up,” she urged them. “Or we’ll all be eating 
soggy mice!” 

“Amberpaw!” Spiderleg called from the tunnel 
mouth. “Get in here right away! Your cough will get 
worse if you stay out in the rain.” 

“My cough’s fine,’ Amberpaw grumbled, though 
she obeyed her mentor and trotted into the tunnel. 

The remaining apprentices quickly covered the 
fresh-kill pile, pausing for a moment so that Frankie 


could deposit his mouse. Graystripe and Millie 
appeared, dragging a squirrel between them, then 
headed for shelter, pausing to shake rain off their pelts 
before they slipped past the mudfall. Poppyfrost and 
the apprentices raced after them. 

Bramblestar thought how much easier it was to 
cope with rain in the stone hollow, where all the den 
roofs were reinforced with brambles and ivy to keep 
the nests dry. We could settle in to talk or take a 
nap, and wait for the sun to come out again. Here, 
its uncomfortable whatever we do. 

The kittypets headed for the tunnel, and 
Bramblestar was about to follow when he spotted 
Leafpool brushing through the sodden undergrowth 
with a bundle of herbs gripped in her mouth. 
Bramblestar nodded to her as she padded up, rain 
dripping from her whiskers. “That looks like a good 
haul,” he commented. 

“I went nearly to the top border to find them,” 
Leafpool told him, setting her bundle down. “They’re 
daisy leaves, to help ease the aches and pains in the 
older cats. Purdy, of course, and Graystripe, 
Sandstorm, and Dustpelt. Not that they’ ll admit they’re 


old,” she added with a half-amused, half-impatient 
snort. 

“Don't look at me,” Bramblestar protested. “Its 
not up to me to tell them when to become elders.” 

“I know.” Leafpool sighed. “But living in this tunnel 
isn’t helping, I can tell you.” 

She picked up her herbs again and slid past the 
mudfall. Bramblestar followed her to see that most of 
the Clan was already there. The tunnel was 
unpleasantly crowded, the air thick with the scent of 
wet fur. 

From farther down the passage, Bramblestar could 
hear Daisy’s voice raised in annoyance. “What were 
you apprentices thinking of?” she scolded. “How many 
times have you been told not to go farther down the 
tunnel than the last nests? Does every cat have to 
watch you every moment of the day? And as for you, 
Cherryfall and Molewhisker, you should be ashamed of 
yourselves for encouraging them.” 

“Sorry,” Cherryfall muttered. 

“But it’s boring down here,” Molewhisker retorted. 
“T’ve been stuck in this tunnel for moons!” 

“Boring?” Daisy was unimpressed. “PI show you 


boring. If you need something to do, you can play hunt 
the tick on Purdy.” 

“What, all of them?” Purdy grunted. “PI be 
prodded to death!” 

The thick air and the voices of his Clanmates 
seemed to press in on Bramblestar. For a moment he 
felt that he couldn’t breathe. J have to get out of 
here. ‘Pm going to check the water levels,” he 
announced to no cat in particular. 

“TIl come with you,” Lionblaze offered, rising from 
his nest and pushing between Birchfall and Cloudtail to 
reach his leader. 

Bramblestar noticed that the golden-furred warrior 
was still limping badly from the wounds he had 
suffered in the battle with the kittypets. “No, you need 
to rest,” he ordered. 

“Pve rested until I'm sick of it!” Lionblaze 
snapped. 

“Bramblestar’s right,” Cinderheart mewed, 
stroking Lionblaze’s side with her tail. “You need to be 
more patient.” 

Lionblaze glared at his mate. “I’ve been patient!” 

“PI come with you, Bramblestar,’ Cloudtail 


offered, heaving himself to his paws. 

“Thanks. Let’s go,” Bramblestar meowed, turning 
away from Lionblaze. He’ll have to accept that 
things are different for him now. 

Outside the rain was as heavy as ever, but after 
the crowded tunnel Bramblestar didn’t mind the cold 
water seeping through his pelt. He took deep breaths 
of the damp air as he and Cloudtail headed through the 
dripping trees. 

“The Great Battle seems so long ago,” Cloudtail 
meowed after they had trotted in silence for a while. 
“And at the same time, it feels as if it was less than a 
moon away.” He sighed deeply. “I miss Firestar.” 

Is he telling me I’m no good as leader? 
Bramblestar wondered for a moment, guilt clawing at 
him. Then he remembered that Cloudtail was 
Firestar’s kin. 

“I miss him too,” he murmured. 

“Oh, you’re doing a great job!” Cloudtail assured 
him, suddenly cheerful. “Just trust your instincts, and 
trust Firestar to have made the right choice!” 

The older warrior’s praise warmed Bramblestar, 
and he felt more optimistic as they came into sight of 


the floodwater. But he was puzzled as he padded along 
the water’s edge looking for the marker sticks. 

“Have they all fallen over?” he muttered. “I’m 
sure I put one just here!” 

“Hey, Bramblestar!” Cloudtail called. 

Turning, Bramblestar saw that the white warrior 
was standing a couple of fox-lengths up the slope, a 
marker stick poking out of the ground beside him. 
Another stick stood a few tail-lengths away, and 
another: a whole line of them stretching along the slope 
well above the edge of the flood. 

Relief surged through Bramblestar, making him 
dizzy. “The water’s going down!” 

“Brilliant!” Cloudtail’s blue eyes gleamed. “We will 
get our home back; you can be sure of that.” 





CHAPTER 24 
de 


S 


“What? ” Mousewhisker was the first cat to leap to 
his paws when Bramblestar and Cloudtail returned to 
the tunnel to announce that the water was going down. 
“Tve got to see this!” 

He charged out of the tunnel, almost knocking 
Bramblestar and Cloudtail off their paws. Rosepetal, 
Thornclaw, Birchfall, and several other cats streamed 
after him and disappeared into the trees. 

Lionblaze rose and tried to limp after them, but 
Jayfeather blocked him before he could leave the 
tunnel. “Stay here, flea-bram!” he hissed. 

Lionblaze raised a paw as if he was going to swipe 
his brother across his ears, but he stopped himself at 
the last moment and went back to his nest with an 
angry twitch of his tail. Cinderheart gave his ears a lick 
as he flopped down into the moss, but Lionblaze didn’t 
respond to her. The gray she-cat’s blue eyes were 
filled with worry and frustration. 

“Speak to Cinderheart.” Sandstorm appeared at 
Bramblestar’s side and spoke quietly. “Tell her that all 


warriors get hurt, and it’s tough learning how to heal.” 

Bramblestar sighed. m no good at talking to 
cats about their feelings. But he recognized the 
wisdom in Sandstorm’s words, and he called 
Cinderheart over to him with a wave of his tail. 

“I know you're having a tough time. . . .” he began 
awkwardly. 

“Pm so afraid!” The words burst out of 
Cinderheart. “Lionblaze just won’t accept that he’s not 
invincible anymore. He’ll end up getting himself 
killed!” 

“No, he won’t.” Bramblestar tried his best to 
reassure her. “He's not stupid. He”Il adjust in time.” 
He tried to understand how Lionblaze must be feeling, 
after living so long without fearing injury. “He’ll have 
to find a different kind of courage, that’s all,” he went 
on. “One that takes account of his limitations. He can’t 
fight alone now; he must stay with his Clanmates. That 
might feel like failure to him, even though it’s not.” 

Cinderheart nodded. “I know I shouldn’t nag him 
about being reckless,” she mewed. “I need to try to 
understand what it must feel like, to be in danger of 
getting hurt when it’s never happened before. You’re 


right: He must feel like he is letting us all down 
because he can’t fight like he used to. Thanks, 
Bramblestar.” Looking much happier, she went back to 
Lionblaze and curled up beside him in silent sympathy. 

“There was good sense in what you told her,” 
Sandstorm murmured, appearing at Bramblestar’s side 
once more. 

Bramblestar hadn’t realized that the ginger she-cat 
was listening. “You gave me good advice,’ he 
responded. 

Sandstorm dipped her head. “You're welcome.” 

Glancing around the camp, Bramblestar realized 
that Millie was looking anxious, and for once it didn’t 
seem to be about Briarlight. Her gaze was flickering 
up and down the tunnel, and when the cats began to 
return from checking the water level, she got up and 
went to join them at the entrance. 

“Has any cat seen Frankie?” she asked. 

Birchfall shook his head. “He didn’t come with 
us.” 

“Isn't he with the kittypets?” Poppyfrost meowed. 

But Jessy and Minty were curled up in their own 
nests, drowsily sharing tongues, and there was no sign 


of Frankie. Millie wove her way through the other cats 
toward them, and Bramblestar, sensing a problem, 
padded over as well. 

“Have you seen Frankie?” Millie called to them. 

“No,” Jessy replied. “Not since we got back from 
our patrol.” 

“Any cat seen Frankie?” Bramblestar yowled, 
raising his voice so all his Clanmates could hear him. 

There was no response except for shaken heads 
and murmurs of confusion. 

Minty sprang to her paws, all her fur fluffed up and 
her tail brushed out. “Oh, no!” she wailed. “He’s been 
eaten by a fox!” 

“No, I’m sure—” Bramblestar began, although he 
had a horrible suspicion that something equally bad 
might have happened to the kittypet, and he could 
sense that tension was rising among the rest of the 
Clan. Then he broke off as he spotted movement at 
the tunnel entrance and Frankie staggered in, soaked 
through and exhausted. 

“Frankie!” Minty screeched. “You’re not dead!” 

“Where have you been?” Mille demanded, 
stumbling over other cats as she hurried toward him. 


Frankie glanced around, bewildered to see all his 
Clanmates’ gazes fixed on him. “What’s all the fuss 
about?” he panted. “I just went hunting on my own. 
I’m sorry, I didn’t catch anything.” 

“I thought you’d been eaten!” Minty mewed with a 
shudder. 

“Tm fine.” 

Frankie headed toward the other kittypets, but 
Bramblestar intercepted him before he reached them. 
“Listen,” he mewed, “don’t go off on your own like 
that. It's not safe.” 

“T can look after myself!” Frankie snapped. 

And hedgehogs fly, Bramblestar thought. But 
Frankie seemed tense and upset, so all he said was, 
“Go get some food and rest.” 

After he had watched Frankie head back out to the 
fresh-kill pile, Bramblestar realized that Squirrelflight 
had appeared at his side. “You know,” she mewed 
gently, “you mustn’t let the kittypets take up so much 
of your attention. They are just visitors, after all And 
now that the floods are going down, they”Il be able to 
return to their Twoleg dens soon.” 

Bramblestar glanced across at the kittypets. 


Frankie was gulping down a thrush, while Jessy was 
teaching Minty how to pounce directly from a crouch. 
He felt a pang of loss run through him from ears to 
tai-tip at the idea of saying good-bye. “I’ve kind of 
gotten used to having them around,” he admitted. 

“We have enough mouths to feed,” Squirrelflight 
pointed out. 

“They’re learning to hunt!” Bramblestar protested. 

Squirrelflight’s gaze rested on him for a long 
moment. “You don’t know that they want to stay here. 
Let them decide where they want to be,” she meowed 
at last. 


When Bramblestar woke the next morning, he 
could hardly believe what he was seeing. Faint rays of 
sunlight were angling in through the tunnel entrance, 
and the air felt soft, laden with green scents. His pads 
tingling with optimism, he headed outside, enjoying the 
hint of newleaf warmth on his fur. 

Squirrelflight was already in the open, arranging 
the patrols, with several of their Clanmates around her. 
“Cloudtail has gone to check the ShadowClan border,” 
she reported to Bramblestar. 


“Then Pll take a patrol over to WindClan,” 
Bramblestar decided. “I want to find out what they’re 
up to now that the water has started to go down.” 

“PI come.” Berrynose thrust his way through the 
other cats. “Jayfeather says I’m fit for warrior duties 
again.” 

“Great,” Bramblestar meowed. Glancing around, 
he spotted Whitewing with Dewpaw. “T’ll take you two 
as wel. And you, Thornclaw, and . . . yes, 
Brightheart.” I’d better have a good number of cats, 
just in case WindClan causes any trouble. 

But when Bramblestar and his patrol reached the 
WindClan border, there was no trace of WindClan 
scent on ThunderClan territory. Padding up to the edge 
of the stream, Bramblestar saw that the current was 
wider and deeper than before, but had retreated within 
its banks again. We really are getting back to 
normal. 

Bramblestar led his cats as far as the top border 
without meeting any WindClan cats, but on their way 
back they spotted Crowfeather with his apprentice, 
Featherpaw, as well as Furzepelt and Gorsetail making 
their way upstream on the opposite side. Bramblestar 


halted and waited for them. 

“Greetings, Crowfeather,” Bramblestar mewed as 
the WindClan patrol reached them. “How’s the prey 
running in WindClan?” 

“No better for you asking,” Crowfeather retorted. 
“And before you start accusing us, no, we haven’t 
crossed over to your side of the stream.” 

“I know that,’ Bramblestar told him, not 
mentioning the log they had unjammed. WindClan isn t 
saying a word about it, either. 

“And we’re not going to cross.” Furzepelt’s gray- 
and-white fur was bristling. “So keep your filthy 
ThunderClan paws off our side.” 

“You and your kittypet friends,’ Crowfeather 
added. 

“Oh, yes.” Gorsetail’s voice was full of scorn. 
“We’ve seen the latest additions to your hunting 
patrols. Very effective—not!” 

“But ThunderClan never seems to mind who they 
let into their Clan,” Furzepelt meowed. “Maybe you’re 
missing Firestar so much that you’re looking for a 
kittypet replacement.” 

A growl of anger woke deep in Berrynose’s chest. 


Thornclaw and Brightheart were both bristling, while 
Dewpaw raced to the very edge of the stream and 
glared furiously at the WindClan patrol. 

Bramblestar raised his tail in warning. “Careful,” 
he murmured. “We don’t want trouble with them, and 
it’s none of their business who we let into the Clan.” 

“You mean we have to let them say what they 
like?” Thornclaw demanded. 

“I mean we need to pick our battles.” Bramblestar 
made himself sound calm, although inwardly he was 
ruffled to learn how much WindClan knew about the 
kittypets. He’d deliberately kept them out of border 
patrols for that very reason. “There’s no WindClan 
scent all along this side of the stream, so our border is 
safe.” 

“They'd better not think of invading.” Berrynose 
sounded troubled rather than aggressive. “Those 
kittypets could be a weak link.” 

“It won’t come to that,” Bramblestar told him. “At 
least, Whitewing, it won’t if you can sort out your 
apprentice.” 

Dewpaw was still standing on the bank, flexing his 
claws and hissing at the WindClan patrol. “Come over 


here and insult Firestar’s memory!” he yowled. 

Whitewing padded over and patted Dewpaw with 
her tail. “That’s enough. It’s time to go back to camp.” 

“But they—” Dewpaw began to protest. 

“T said, enough. Do you want them to see me 
dragging you away by the scruff?” 

Dewpaw shot one last glare at the WindClan cats 
and retreated, his fur still bristling. “They’d better not 
come over here,” he muttered. 

Bramblestar made a polite farewell to Crowfeather 
and his cats, guessing that would irritate them far more 
than hurlng abuse. Then he led his patrol away, 
conscious of unfriendly stares following them until 
undergrowth cut off the view. 

As soon as Bramblestar and his patrol returned to 
camp, Brackenfur came bounding up. “Now we’ve 
lost Frankie and Minty!” he complained. “They were 
supposed to be with me on the late-morning hunting 
patrol.” 

“Never mind.” Bramblestar tried to sound soothing, 
though his pads prickled with apprehension at the 
news. Glancing around to see which cats were 
available, he added, “Take Cherryfall instead, and 


Poppyfrost and Lilypaw.” 

“Can I come too?” Jessy asked, turning from 
where she was hanging one of the Twoleg pelts on a 
nearby bush. “Daisy asked me to hang these pelts out 
in the sun, but this is the last one.” 

“Sure.” Brackenfur invited her over with a friendly 
wave of his tail. “You can show me these hunting skills 
Bramblestar keeps telling me about.” 

As soon as the patrol had left, Bramblestar sniffed 
around the clearing and finally picked up faint traces of 
Frankie and Minty leading out of the clearing side by 
side. They’ve been gone some time, he thought, 
judging by the faintness of the scent. 

The trail led Bramblestar toward the ridge, up to 
the outcrop of rocks where once there had been 
another tunnel entrance. The one that collapsed 
behind Hollyleaf, all those moons ago. Bramblestar 
shivered at the memory, still missing the cat he had 
once believed to be his daughter. As the rocks loomed 
into full view, he spotted a small black-and-white she- 
cat basking in a patch of sunlight, fast asleep. He 
bounded up and stood over her. “Minty!” 

Minty’s eyes flew open and she jumped to her 


paws. “Oh!” she squeaked. “It’s you!” 

“What are you doing here?” Bramblestar meowed. 

Minty gave her chest fur a few embarrassed licks. 
“Frankie suggested coming out here to lie in the sun,” 
she explained. “He said we’d be back in plenty of time 
for the patrol.” She blinked in confusion. “Did I 
oversleep? Where’s Frankie? Did you wake him 
already?” 

“Frankie’s not here.” Bramblestar’s tail-tip began 
to twitch. StarClan preserve me from clawing this 
silly cats ears off! He felt disappointed that the 
kittypets had been so irresponsible, when he had 
thought they were beginning to fit mto the life of the 
Clan. “I don’t have time to round up missing kittypets,” 
he snapped. “Come on, back to the tunnel!” 

Minty’s eyes widened. “Aren’t you going to look 
for Frankie?” 

“No.” Bramblestar was too fed up with the 
kittypets to waste one more heartbeat on them. “He’ll 
come back when he’s hungry, no doubt.” 

Back in the camp, Spiderleg, Ivypool, and 
Whitewing were teaching their apprentices a new 
fighting move where they rolled over on their backs 


and battered their opponents with their hind paws. 

“Can I join in?” Minty asked, trotting over to them. 

Spiderleg turned to her with a cold stare. “No. This 
isn’t for cats who go wandering off and miss their 
patrols.” 

Minty turned away, her head and tail drooping. 
Bramblestar thought that Spiderleg had been a bit 
harsh; it was encouraging to see Minty actually 
wanting to learn to fight. He was pleased a moment 
later when Brightheart padded up to the crestfallen 
kittypet and rested her tail on Minty’s shoulder. 

“I'm going into the forest to look for herbs,” she 
meowed. “Do you want to come with me?” 

Minty brightened up. “Sure!” 

Bramblestar watched them go, then decided that 
he’d had enough of worrying about pesky kittypets for 
one day. VIl see if I can catch up with the hunting 
patrol. 

The trail led up to the ridge and across the top 
border into the woods beyond. Bramblestar relished 
the experience of being alone, listening to the scurrying 
of small creatures in the undergrowth and the 
twittering of birds overhead. The air was full of the 


scent of fresh growth after the long leaf-bare. 

As Bramblestar inhaled the signs of returning life, 
he detected a faint bitter scent among the newleaf 
richness. Badger? he wondered, his neck fur 
beginning to fluff up. Bramblestar tried to tell himself 
that he had been spooked by Minty’s fussing, but he 
knew that he had to check. Following the traces 
deeper into the undergrowth, he realized that his first 
instinct had been right. At least two badgers had 
passed that way. He found flattened bracken and holes 
filled with badger droppings that confirmed his first 
suspicions. 

His pelt bristling, Bramblestar backed away, taking 
careful note of the spot so that he could warn the 
patrols to keep watch. As soon as he retraced his 
steps to the hunting patrol’s scent trail, he heard sounds 
up ahead as if some cat was brushing swiftly through 
undergrowth. A mouse appeared out of the shelter of a 
clump of ferns and scuttled across the open ground. A 
heartbeat later the ferns waved wildly as Lilypaw burst 
out of them and hurled herself at the mouse. 

Bramblestar waited for her to make the kill, then 
stepped forward as Lilypaw straightened up with her 


catch in her mouth. “Good job!” he meowed. “Your 
hunting skills are coming along well.” 

Lilypaw jumped at the sound of his voice and 
turned toward him. Her eyes glowed with pleasure. 
“Thanks, Bramblestar”” she mumbled around the 
mouse. 

She may be small, but she's brave and she 
works hard, Bramblestar thought as he followed 
Lilypaw to join the rest of the hunting party. A pang of 
sorrow stabbed through him, sharp as a thorn, when he 
remembered how much she had lost. J must remember 
to take Brackenfur aside and tell him how well his 
daughter is doing. 


That night in his nest, Bramblestar couldn’t sleep. 
There was a hard knot in his belly; he blamed the 
tough blackbird he had eaten earlier. However often he 
changed his position, he felt as if a sharp piece of twig 
was poking into him. 

“For StarClan’s sake,” Squirrelflight hissed, coming 
to sit beside him, “stop fidgeting about. You’re keeping 
every cat awake! Except for Frankie,” she added. “He 
came back late, so exhausted he just flopped into his 


nest.” 

“Sorry,” Bramblestar muttered. “I’m worried about 
Frankie,” he went on. 

He was slightly surprised when Squirrelflight 
agreed. “So am I. Why don’t we follow him the next 
time he wanders off by himself?” 

Bramblestar’s whiskers quivered. “Do you think 
he’s plotting with another Clan?” 

Squirrelflight let out a snort of disbelief. “No. He’s 
a kittypet. But he’s our responsibility at the moment, so 
we need to find out where he’s going.” She poked her 
paw into his nest and yanked out a single long thorn. 
“There, you should stop wriggling now. Sleep well.” 





CHAPTER 25 
de 


S 


“Seeing that the waters going down,’ Bramblestar 
meowed, “we need to think about repairing the dens in 
the hollow.” 

A couple of days had passed without any more 
rain. Now a pale sun was shining and the clouds were 
thinning out, drifting across the sky like white mist. 
Bramblestar felt his energy rise at the thought of 
returning to their home. 

Dustpelt and Brackenfur were discussing the 
practicalities with him just outside the entrance to the 
tunnel, along with Cherryfall and Molewhisker. The life 
of the Clan went on busily around them. The 
apprentices were dragging bedding outside to let it dry 
off in the sun, with Daisy supervising them. 

“Stop it, Amberpaw!” Bramblestar heard her scold 
the young she-cat. “You won’t make that moss fit to 
sleep on by throwing it at Dewpaw.” 

Farther across the clearing, Millie was helping 
Briarlight with her exercises. The warmer weather 
was helping her, Bramblestar noticed; she wasn’t 


coughing nearly as much. Jn fact, most of the sick 
cats are getting better. 

Dustpelt twitched his whiskers thoughtfully before 
replying to Bramblestar. “It'll be a long job,” he 
murmured. “Before we can repair anything, we’ ll have 
to get rid of all the mess.” 

“But we'll be home; that’s the most important 
thing,” Brackenfur added. 

“T suggest we split up the tasks,” Dustpelt went on. 
Bramblestar saw that his eyes were brighter as he 
considered the problem. He looked more like the cat 
he had been before he lost Ferncloud. “Some cats to 
clear up, some to fetch brambles and moss from the 
forest, some to start the actual rebuilding . . .” 

“And still keep up with hunting and border patrols,” 
Bramblestar pointed out. 

“Yeah, we need to keep an eye on ShadowClan,” 
Cherryfall put in, working her claws eagerly in the 
ground. 

“Let’s hope that ShadowClan has enough to do 
repairing ther own camp, to have time to come 
bothering us,” Bramblestar responded. “And that goes 
for the other Clans, too.” 


“Then we should start by organizing work patrols,” 
Brackenfur suggested. “As soon as the water level 
sinks low enough to let us back in.” 

“That would be a task for Squirrelflight,” 
Bramblestar mewed. He glanced around for his 
deputy, who had been sorting out hunting patrols at the 
far side of the clearing. Now the patrols were leaving, 
and Squirrelflight was already heading toward him. 

“Bramblestar,’ she began as soon as she was 
within earshot, “remember what we were talking about 
the other night? Well, Frankie is at it again. I was about 
to put him in a patrol when I saw him sneaking off.” 

Bramblestar rose to his paws with a frustrated lash 
of his tail. “I hoped he’d given that up. He was in a 
hunting patrol with me yesterday, and he made a 
couple of really good catches. Which way did he go?” 
he asked Squirrelflight. 

His deputy angled her ears in the direction of the 
ridge. “Up there.” 

“Sorry,” Bramblestar meowed to Dustpelt and the 
others. “I have to deal with this. Discuss the hollow 
among yourselves, and let me know what you decide 
when I get back.” 


Padding across the clearing, Bramblestar easily 
picked out Frankie’s trail from the mingled scents of 
the other cats. To his surprise, it led straight up to the 
ridge, then across the border and into the woods above 
ShadowClan territory. Before long, he spotted Frankie, 
trotting along swiftly and purposefully. 

Bramblestar quickened his pace to catch up. He 
was almost close enough to call out: Hey, what do you 
think you’re doing? Then he saw Frankie freeze and 
hurl himself into the shelter of a clump of bracken. 
Quickly Bramblestar leaped up into the nearest tree, 
hiding himself among the tiny, unfurling leaves, and 
peered downward. A heartbeat later he spotted a 
ShadowClan patrol padding past, focused and alert as 
if they were looking for prey. Rowanstar himself was 
in the lead. 

Thank StarClan they didn t spot us! Bramblestar 
thought as the patrol vanished and their scent died 
away. 

Frankie emerged from the bracken and set off 
again, swift as a fox, into the dark pine forest in the 
direction of the Twolegplace. /s he going to visit 
Victor and those other kittypets? Bramblestar 


wondered, deciding not to call out to Frankie until he 
knew what was going on. 

But Frankie veered away from the Twolegplace 
and headed toward the border between ShadowClan 
and RiverClan. Suddenly Bramblestar realized that he 
was going back to his own nest. Does he want to 
leave us? Bramblestar felt a stab of disappointment 
that Frankie would just go without even saying good- 
bye. But if this is where he disappeared to before, 
he has already been and come back twice. What is 
he playing at? 

Bramblestar tracked Frankie in silence as his paw 
steps turned toward the lake. The stream leading down 
into it was much shallower now, not the turbulent 
current they had risked their lives to swim such a short 
time before. Frankie waded across it without 
hesitating, even though in the middle of the stream the 
water came up to his head and shoulders. Bramblestar 
waited for him to get a little farther ahead before 
following. 

Even though the water had gone down, 
Bramblestar could see the evidence of the terrible 
flood everywhere he looked. Vast swathes of mud 


covered the ground, clinging to his paws as he picked 
his way through it. The ground was littered with 
broken Twoleg things and branches swept along in the 
surge. Sometimes there was no way around it, so that 
Bramblestar and Frankie had to clamber over the 
heaps of flotsam, getting even wetter and muddier. As 
they drew closer to the Twoleg dens, Bramblestar saw 
that some of the Twolegs had returned. They waded in 
and out of the flooded dens, pushing water out with 
long branches that were bushy at the end, and yowling 
at one another in angry voices. Bramblestar’s fur 
began to bristle as he drew closer to them, but soon he 
realized that they were too busy to notice a couple of 
cats. 

By now Bramblestar was close enough to Frankie 
to have called to him easily, but he kept silent, in the 
grip of curiosity, and ducked out of sight whenever 
Frankie paused to look around. J want to know 
exactly what this kittypet is up to. Soon Frankie 
reached the flooded Thunderpath that led away from 
the lake. The water came up no farther than his belly 
fur now, and he waded along, venturing into each 
Twoleg den but staying out of sight of the Twolegs. 


What is he doing? Is he trying to steal food 
because hunting prey is too hard? Or looking for 
his Twolegs? 

When Frankie emerged from the next Twoleg den, 
he paused, looking around with his head raised. 
“Benny! Benny!” he called. 

Bramblestar stared at the kittypet in dismay. He s 
looking for his brother! Why didnt I think of that? 
He kept close as the gray tabby cat went on, searching 
under bushes, in abandoned Twoleg dens and 
monsters, underneath the bigger chunks of debris that 
littered the ground. His frantic, uncoordinated 
movements and his wide-stretched eyes gave away his 
growing despair. 

At last Frankie jumped up onto a fence. “Benny, 
where are you?” he yowled. 

Bramblestar couldn’t let him suffer on his own 
anymore. “Frankie!” he meowed, jumping up onto the 
fence beside him. 

Frankie whirled to face him, so startled that he 
almost lost his balance. “I—I’m sorry. . . .” he 
stammered when he had regained his footing. 

Bramblestar silenced him with a wave of his tail. 


“You have nothing to be sorry for. We should have 
known you’d come looking for Benny. We all know 
how it feels to lose kin. It’s part of Clan life.” 

Frankie lowered his head. “Then it’s a part of Clan 
life I can’t accept.” 

“I didn’t say we accepted it, either,’ Bramblestar 
mewed. “Come on, I’ Il help you look.” 

He leaped down from the fence and headed 
farther along the flooded Thunderpath, trying to 
remember which of the Twoleg nests Frankie had been 
trapped in when Jessy found him. “Show me your 
den,” he told Frankie. “Maybe we can work out which 
way Benny would have gone. That is where you saw 
him last, right?” 

Frankie nodded, beckoning with his tail. “This 
way.” 

He waded across the Thunderpath and up the 
slope on the far side. At the top, Bramblestar spotted 
the den set into the bank where he had first seen Jessy 
trying to get through the window to release Frankie. 
Following the kittypet, he bounded down the slope until 
they reached the fence that surrounded the den. 

“Benny and I were here when the flood came,” 


Frankie explained, jumping over the fence and landing 
on a stretch of soggy grass. “The water came up from 
the lake like a huge wave. It knocked us off our paws 
and washed us that way.” He angled his ears toward 
the opposite fence. “I hit the fence and dug my claws 
in. I thought I was going to drown.” He shuddered and 
his eyes clouded. 

“What happened next?” Bramblestar prompted 
him. 

“I spotted that the basement window was open. I 
managed to get inside. I thought Benny was right 
behind me . . . but he must have been swept away.” 
His voice shook on the last few words. 

Bramblestar touched Frankie’s shoulder with his 
nose, then padded across the garden to inspect the 
fence at the opposite side. Water had washed away all 
traces of scent, but after a few moments he found a 
narrow gap at the bottom with a tuft of black-and- 
white fur caught on a splinter. 

“Hey, Frankie!” he called. “Benny is black and 
white, right? Could this be his?” 

Frankie ran over and stared at the scrap of fur. 


da, 99 


“Yes, that’s Benny’s,” he meowed. 


“Looks like he went this way, then.” 

Bramblestar squeezed through the gap, with 
Frankie close behind. On the other side a broad swathe 
of destruction—broken fencing, stinking mud, scattered 
branches and other debris, and even a small monster 
tipped over onto its side—revealed the path of the 
huge wave. Ignoring their wet paws and drenched fur, 
the two cats followed the trail, checking each possible 
hiding place to see if Benny was there. 

“Why are you helping me?” Frankie asked after a 
few moments. 

“Because right now you are my Clanmate,” 
Bramblestar replied, drawing his tail-tip along Frankie’s 
flank. “I would do the same for any of my cats.” 

The trail led to a narrow opening in the ground. At 
first Bramblestar thought it was another entrance to 
the tunnels, but then he realized it was something made 
by Twolegs. A neat square hole had been built into a 
raised bank of earth, supported by stones like the ones 
used to build Twoleg dens. 

“That’s a drain,’ Frankie meowed. “There’s 
usually a cover on it, but it must have been washed 
away.” 


Bramblestar felt his fur start to prickle as he 
pictured what might have happened to a struggling cat, 
his fur heavy with floodwater, swept off his paws by a 
wall of water. I dont like this one bit, but some cat 
has to check it out. Then he took a deep breath and 
crawled into the drain. 

The air was damp and full of a thick, rotting 
stench. This was nothing like the tunnels, which 
seemed light and spacious compared with this dank 
hole. Bramblestar’s pelt brushed against the slimy 
walls on either side. His own body was blocking the 
light, and ahead of him was only choking darkness. 
Oh, StarClan, please dont let me get stuck! 

Bramblestar’s heart was pounding hard, and it took 
a massive effort for him to keep putting one paw in 
front of another. He was wondering how long he ought 
to go on when he bumped into something soft and 
furry. A tiny slice of light from a gap overhead 
revealed a heap of black-and-white fur, cold and solid 
and a long way from life. Every muscle in 
Bramblestar’s body stiffened as he realized that he had 
found Benny. 

Gagging at the smell, Bramblestar nosed about until 


he located one of the dead cat’s legs and fastened his 
teeth in it. Then he tried to crawl backward, but 
Benny’s body was stuck against something, and 
wouldn’t move. Bramblestar reached out one forepaw 
and felt around for whatever was blocking Benny. His 
paw touched something hard and chilled, lodged 
slantwise in the drain and wedging Benny’s body 
underneath it. 

Bramblestar gave it a shove. Maybe it’s the drain 
cover that Frankie said was missing. 

At first nothing Bramblestar could do would shift 
the obstacle. His legs started to ache as he heaved at 
it, stretched to his limit to reach past Benny’s unmoving 
body. He was on the verge of giving up when it gave 
way with an echoing clang against the side of the drain 
and slipped to one side. 

Bramblestar tried moving Benny again and this 
time the cat’s body slid easily toward him. Carefully he 
backed away, dragging Benny with him, until he felt a 
welcome draft of fresh air on his haunches, and 
emerged into the daylight. Frankie was waiting beside 
the drain entrance and helped him to pull Benny the 
last couple of tail-lengths out into the light. 


Bramblestar coughed to clear the stench of the 
drain from his throat. “Is that your brother?” he 
meowed hoarsely, though he was in no doubt about the 
answer. 

Frankie crouched beside the body, his head bowed. 
The dead tom looked small and pathetic out here, his 
black-and-white pelt plastered to his sides, covered in 
mud and slime. 

“Oh, Benny . . .” Frankie touched his nose to his 
brother’s cold side. His voice began as a whisper, then 
rose to a grief-stricken wail. “What am I going to do? I 
can’t leave him here!” 

“We’ll bury him,” Bramblestar told him. “We’ll 
give him a warrior’s farewell.” 

Together he and Frankie managed to hoist Benny 
onto their backs and carry him up the slope to the top 
of the hill where the ground was drier. They laid 
Benny on the grass while they scratched a hole. The 
sun was setting, bathing the hill with scarlet light, as 
they settled him inside it and covered him with earth. 
Bramblestar stood beside the small, dark mound of soil 
and spoke the words that a medicine cat would say 
over the body of a fallen warrior. 


“May StarClan light your path, Benny.” His voice 
rang out over the heap of stones and earth. “May you 
find good hunting, swift running, and shelter when you 
sleep.” 

Frankie looked up to where the warriors of 
StarClan were beginning to appear, crossing the sky in 
a glittering pathway of stars. “Do all cats go to 
StarClan?” he asked. “Even Benny?” 

Bramblestar wasn’t sure if a kittypet would be 
welcomed into StarClan. He guessed that even 
Jayfeather or Leafpool would have trouble answering 
that question. But he knew that he had to give Frankie 
some comfort. “Well... there are a lot of stars,” he 
mewed. “More than there have ever been warriors, 
I’m sure.” 

Frankie peered more closely at the shimmering 
swathe of light. “I wonder which one is Benny?” His 
voice quivered. “Benny, Pll look up at you every night. 
If you look down on me, then we’ ll still be together.” 

Bramblestar leaned closer to Frankie, lending him 
his warmth and feeling him tremble from more than 
cold. 

After a moment Frankie spoke, his gaze still fixed 


on the stars. “Don’t you need to get back to the 
Clan?” 

Yes, Bramblestar thought, but that’s not important 
right now. “There’s plenty of time,” he murmured. 
‘TIl stay with you for as long as you need.” 





CHAPTER 26 
de 


S 


The last of the sun had gone and shadows were 
gathering fast before Frankie stirred, lowering his gaze 
from the stars. “What will happen to me now?” he 
mewed sadly. “My housefolk have left, and my home 
is still full of water. Everything has gone.” 

“But the water is going down.” Bramblestar tried 
to sound encouraging. “Your Twolegs will come back.” 
“But what will I do right now?” Frankie wailed. 

“Come back to ThunderClan.” The answer was so 
obvious to Bramblestar that he found it hard to 
understand why Frankie was asking the question. 
“We’ll look after you until you can go home.” 

Frankie let out a sigh. “Thank you.” 

Bramblestar led the way back to ThunderClan 
territory, retracing their previous route. Night had fallen 
by the time they reached the woods above 
ShadowClan, and Bramblestar felt his pelt rise at the 
eerie silence. The scents of ShadowClan warriors 
wreathed around him from every side, as if they had 
been hunting regularly beyond their border since 


ThunderClan had dealt with Victor and the other 
kittypets. 

“If we spot a ShadowClan patrol, climb a tree, 
quick as you can,” he murmured to Frankie. “I know 
we’re not actually trespassing, but I don’t want them 
to catch us.” 

When they reached the forest above ThunderClan, 
Bramblestar relaxed briefly, only to stiffen again as he 
picked up a trace of the bitter scent of badger. “Let’s 
get a move on,” he meowed, not telling Frankie 
anything about his fears. “I can’t wait to get back to 
my nest.” 

A quarter moon was shining down on the clearing 
when Bramblestar and Frankie returned to the 
makeshift camp. Squirrelflight was stalking up and 
down in front of the tunnel entrance, her tail-tip flicking 
and her whiskers quivering. 

“Bramblestar!” she exclaimed as the two cats 
limped out of the undergrowth. “Where have you 
been?” 

At the sound of her voice, Minty, Jessy, and Millie 
erupted out of the tunnel. 

“Are you two mouse-brained?” Millie demanded 


as she shot across the clearing. “Do you know how 
worried we’ve been? Do you care?” 

“Great StarClan, look at you!” Squirrelflight 
gasped. 

Bramblestar realized how they must appear: thorn- 
scratched and exhausted, their fur soaked and muddy, 
stinking of death. “It’s been a long day,” he muttered. 

Millie’s anger died as she reached Frankie and 
Bramblestar and saw them more clearly. “What 
happened?” she hissed. “Are you hurt?” 

“Did you fight a badger?” Minty asked, bounding 
up and giving Frankie’s filthy pelt a shocked sniff. 

“Benny’s dead,” Frankie responded wearily. 

Minty’s eyes stretched wide. “Oh, no! How?” 

While Bramblestar gave a brief account of their 
search and the discovery of Benny’s body inside the 
drain, more of his Clanmates emerged from the tunnel. 
Murmurs of sympathy arose from them as they 
listened. 

“We buried him on a little hill overlooking the lake,” 
Bramblestar finished. 

‘I’m sure StarClan was with him at the end,” 
Leafpool mewed, padding up to Frankie and giving his 


ear a comforting lick. 

“I hope so.” Frankie’s voice was bleak. “Because 
I wasn’t.” 

“You did all you could,” Millie told him. “At least 
now you know what happened.” 

“Yes,” Jessy added. “You don’t have to worry 
anymore, and you can grieve for him properly.” 

Frankie nodded, gazing around at the group of cats 
who surrounded him with looks of sadness, but he said 
nothing. 

“You should have told us where you were going,” 
Cherryfall meowed. “We could have come with you. 
Td have helped you find him.” 

“Come on.” Leafpool gave Frankie a gentle shove. 
“Into the tunnel, and I'll take a look at you. You can 
have some thyme leaves for the shock.” 

“TI bring you some fresh-kill”” Minty offered as 
the medicine cat led Frankie away. 

Once Frankie had gone, Jessy padded over to 
Bramblestar. “Thank you,” she mewed. “You didn’t 
have to do that.” 

Bramblestar dipped his head toward her. “My cats 
never have to suffer alone,” he told her. 


Jessy’s ears flicked up. “Is that true?” she 
pressed. “That we are your cats?” 

“For now,” Bramblestar replied, feeling a purr rise 
in his throat. 

Jessy touched her nose to his. “Good.” 


Bramblestar opened his eyes to see dawn light 
seeping into the tunnel. For a moment he felt as if he 
couldn’t move a muscle. Weariness from the long trek 
the day before, and the struggle to free Benny’s body 
from the drain, weighed down his limbs. He staggered 
to his paws and stumbled out of his nest, still half- 
asleep. 

“Hey, that’s my tail!” Jessy’s voice meowed. 

Bramblestar turned to see that the brown she-cat 
had dragged her nest next to to his, and was looking up 
at him with amusement in her golden eyes. “Sorry,” he 
mumbled. 

“Tt’s okay. How do you feel? You had a tough time 
yesterday.” 

“TIl be fine.” Bramblestar shook each leg in turn, 
his muscles protesting, then arched his back in a long 
stretch. “I need to get moving, that’s all.” 


1” 


Jessy followed him as he headed along the tunnel 
and into the cool dawn. The sky was a pale, milky blue 
with small puffs of white cloud. No rain today, 
Bramblestar thought gratefully. 

In the clearing most of his cats were milling around 
Squirrelflight, who was organizing patrols. “Cloudtail,” 
she was mewing, “you can go and check the border 
with WindClan. Take—” She broke off as she spotted 
Bramblestar and Jessy emerge from the tunnel, held 
Bramblestar’s gaze for a heartbeat, and then turned 
back to Cloudtail. “Take Mousewhisker, Berrynose, 
and Birchfall with you,” she finished. 

As Cloudtail gathered his patrol together, 
Bramblestar padded up to his deputy. “I want to lead a 
patrol out beyond the top border,” he announced. 

“PI come!” Jessy offered. 

Bramblestar was acutely conscious of his 
Clanmates exchanging glances. “Sure,” he replied. 

“Spiderleg and Amberpaw as well?” Squirrelflight 
suggested. 

“Of course,” Bramblestar agreed, wanting to be 
off as soon as possible. “Let’s go.” 

With Bramblestar in the lead, the four cats headed 


straight up the ridge and across the border into the 
woods beyond. The sun rose in front of them, sending 
shafts of golden warmth between the trees. The last of 
Bramblestar’s weariness faded away, and he felt 
ready for anything. 

“Are we looking for signs of ShadowClan 
trespassing?” Spiderleg asked as they crossed their 
own scent marks. 

“No,” Bramblestar replied. “Badgers.” 

“Badgers?” Amberpaw echoed, her voice rising to 
a squeak. “Wow!” She slid out her claws and let her 
shoulder fur bristle up. “Are we going to fight them?” 

Spiderleg gave his apprentice a friendly nudge. 
“You'd be better off running away,” he mewed. 
“You'd hardly make a mouthful for one of those huge 
beasts.” 

‘TIl never run away!” Amberpaw exclaimed. 

“Don't tease her,” Jessy protested to Spiderleg. 
Turning to Amberpaw, she added, “Don’t worry. 
Bramblestar taught me some moves for when a badger 
attacks. I'll show you if you like.” 

“That’s okay,” Spiderleg told her. “Amberpaw is 
my apprentice.” His tone was frosty, and Bramblestar 


could understand why. 

A kittypet trying to take over his apprentice s 
training! But Jessy learns so fast, she’d make a 
good mentor one day. 

“We’re not going to fight,’ Bramblestar meowed. 
“T’ve spotted a few traces, smelled a few scents, and I 
just want to make sure there isn’t a badger set 
anywhere we’re hunting right now.” 

Amberpaw was wide-eyed as the patrol padded 
onward. She paused beside every tree or clump of 
bracken to have a good sniff. “I’ve scented one!” she 
squealed, backing away from a tangle of gnarled oak 
roots. 

Bramblestar padded up to check. “No, that’s fox,” 
he told the bristling apprentice. “And it’s several days 
old. But well done for spotting it.” 

Eyes shining, Amberpaw went on sniffing, 
expecting at any moment to detect an entire den of 
badgers. But it was Spiderleg who found the first 
traces, a heap of droppings in the shelter of a bramble 
thicket. 

“They’re pretty stale,’ he commented, backing 
away and passing his tongue over his lips in disgust. 


Bramblestar studied the scent for himself. “Three 
days old, at a guess,” he meowed. “And I think the 
badger went that way.” He angled his ears in the 
direction of the Twoleg nests where Victor and his 
friends lived. 

“The kittypets are welcome to them,” Spiderleg 
grunted. 

“That’s amazing!” Jessy exclaimed. “Bramblestar, 
can you really tell how old those droppings are, and 
which way the badger was heading?” 

“It’s all part of warrior training,’ Bramblestar told 
her. “I think we should follow the scent for a while,” 
he went on. “Just to be sure that there isn’t a set 
nearby.” 

With Bramblestar in the lead, the patrol tracked the 
badger until they drew close to the ShadowClan 
border. There was no sign of a set. “We may as well 
turn back,’ Bramblestar decided. “I don’t want 
Rowanstar to accuse us of trespassing again. We—” 

He broke off at a harsh squawk and a squeal of 
terror from Amberpaw. Spinning around, he saw that a 
rook had flown down and was attacking the small 
apprentice, stabbing her with its beak. Amberpaw 


bared her teeth and lashed out with one paw, but the 
rook was too big and fierce for her, pressing into the 
attack in a flurry of feathers. 

Spiderleg flashed past Bramblestar and flung 
himself on top of Amberpaw, hiding her from the rook. 
The bird battered at him with its wings and tried to 
fasten its claws into his back. Bramblestar let out a 
defiant yowl and hurled himself at the rook, his claws 
slashing at it. The rook squawked again and beat its 
wings to avoid his blows. Before it could gain height, 
Jessy leaped into the air and grabbed it. She fell back 
to the ground and rolled over, the rook flapping 
furiously in an attempt to escape. Its harsh cry was cut 
off as it went limp. Panting, Jessy rose to her paws 
and stood over her prey. 

“That was outstanding!” Bramblestar meowed. 
“Great job, Jessy!” 

Jessy’s eyes shone with pride. 

“We’re on a border patrol,” Spiderleg muttered as 
he scrambled off Amberpaw and smoothed down his 
ruffled fur. “Not a hunting patrol.” 

“All fresh-kill is welcome,” Bramblestar retorted. 
“Amberpaw, are you okay?” 


The apprentice tottered a little as she regained her 
paws, and checked herself for injuries. “I’m fine, 
thanks, Bramblestar.” 

“If that rook attacked us,” Bramblestar mewed 
thoughtfully, “there must be a new nest somewhere 
close by.” He peered up into the trees and spotted an 
untidy cluster of twigs lodged in the fork of a branch in 
a nearby ash tree. “Up there,” he murmured. 

Stealthily he began to climb the trunk, trying to stay 
out of sight of the nest until he could look down on it 
from above. A moment later he realized that Jessy was 
following him, leaving her catch at the bottom of the 
tree. 

Soon Bramblestar reached a branch from where 
he could see into the nest. A mother rook was sitting 
there; at the sight of Bramblestar she half rose, 
revealing a small clutch of pale blue, brown-speckled 
eggs. As she settled again, her berry-bright eyes still 
fixed on him, Bramblestar slid out his claws, intent on 
more fresh-kill. 

“No, leave her!” Jessy protested. “She’s about to 
be a mother. You’d be killing her chicks as well!” Then 
she paused and gave her chest fur a few embarrassed 


licks. “Okay, I’m talking like a kittypet,” she admitted. 

“No, we’ll leave her,” Bramblestar meowed. As 
they turned to climb down the tree, he added 
mischievously, “We’ll come back when the chicks have 
hatched.” 

Jessy swiped at him, her claws sheathed, before 
leaping to the ground. 

Spiderleg, waiting at the bottom of the tree, looked 
unimpressed. “Are we going home, or what?” he 
grumbled. 

When the patrol arrived back at the tunnel, Frankie 
and Minty hurried forward to admire Jessy’s rook. 
Bramblestar looked around for Squirrelflight, to report 
to her about the badger traces, but before he spotted 
her Bumblestripe sprang up from where he was sitting 
beside the mudpile and raced over to him. 

‘Tve been waiting for you,” the young warrior 
meowed. “I need to talk to you about Dovewing.” 

Anxiety sprang up inside Bramblestar. “Is 
something wrong?” 

Bumblestripe shifted his paws uncomfortably. 
“Follow me,” he mewed. 

At Bramblestar’s nod, he led the way along the 


tunnel and past the nests, into the shadows beyond. 

“You haven’t been going down here, have you?” 
Bramblestar asked, astonishment and fear making his 
heart thud. “You know the tunnels are dangerous!” 

“I know,” Bumblestripe assured him. “But 
Dovewing’s safe. You just need to see this.” 

Unpleasant memories of the drain and Benny’s 
body filled Bramblestar’s mind as he followed 
Bumblestripe into the narrow, dripping darkness. For all 
his efforts to concentrate, he kept bumping into the 
walls. His pads grew numb from the cold, damp floor 
and every hair on his pelt longed to turn and head back 
to the light. 

Then Bramblestar heard a faint meowing coming 
from somewhere ahead. “What’s that?” he asked 
sharply, halting. 

“Shh!” Bumblestripe whispered. “Listen!” 

“Hello! Hello!” The sound came echoing up the 
tunnel. 

Now Bramblestar recognized the voice. “It’s 
Dovewing! Is she lost?” he gasped. 

“No,” Bumblestripe replied. “Come on.” 

Bramblestar followed him, creeping forward until 


they came to a place where three tunnels met. A thin 
shaft of light pierced the darkness from a crack in the 
roof. Peering over Bumblestripe’s shoulder, 
Bramblestar could see Dovewing standing with her 
back toward them. Clearly she had no idea they were 
there. 

“Hello! Hello!” she called again. Then she waited 
in silence, her ears pricked, as her voice echoed away 
down the tunnels. 

“What's she doing?” Bramblestar whispered. 

Bumblestripe glanced back at him, his eyes filled 
with pain. “She’s testing how long she can hear the 
echoes,” he told Bramblestar. “She—she wants to be 
able to hear again.” 





CHAPTER 27 
de 


S 


“Hello!” Dovewing called again. “Hello P” 

“But she’s not deaf,’ Bramblestar murmured in 
dismay. / thought she had accepted that her powers 
had gone. 

“She thinks she is,” Bumblestripe responded. 
“Compared with how she was... . before.” 

Bramblestar thought of Lionblaze, furious that he 
had to wait for his wounds to heal. Was it worth these 
cats having their special powers, he wondered, 
when they suffer such agony losing them? Only 
Jayfeather seemed untroubled, but he was still able to 
be a medicine cat, just like before. And I’ve never 
known what goes through Jayfeather 5 mind. 

Bramblestar padded forward. Dovewing jumped at 
the sound of his paw steps, and spun around to face 
him. After one glance into his eyes she hung her head 
and shuffled her front paws on the stone. 

“Bumblestripe told me what you’re trying to do,” 
Bramblestar began. 

“It’s none of his business!” Dovewing’s tone was 


indignant. 

“Of course it is,’ Bramblestar meowed. “He’s 
your mate, and he cares for you.” 

Dovewing let out a long, frustrated sigh. “It’s 
awful, not being able to hear anymore,” she told 
Bramblestar. “I feel as if I’ve let my Clanmates 
down.” 

“Of course you haven’t!” Bramblestar assured 
her. “It’s not your fault.” 

Dovewing’s eyes were pools of sadness in the dim 
light. “In spite of the powers the three of us had, the 
Clans were still devastated by the Great Battle,’ she 
mewed. 

“But without you, we would have suffered much 
more.” Bramblestar wasn’t sure what he could say to 
comfort Dovewing, and he paused for a moment, 
hoping that StarClan would give him the right words. 
But no words came. 

Maybe StarClan cant see me under all this 
rock, he thought. I’! have to figure this out on my 
own. 

“StarClan gave you those powers for a good 
reason,” he went on at last. “You knew where the 


Dark Forest warriors were attacking. Lionblaze fought 
like a whole Clan of warriors without shedding a drop 
of blood, and Jayfeather united StarClan.” 

Dovewing shook her head. “So why have we lost 
our powers, if we needed them so badly?” 

“Perhaps because StarClan knows you don’t need 
them now,” Bramblestar suggested. “We will still face 
challenges, like the flood, but we can survive them 
using our Clanborn knowledge. You and Lionblaze can 
still hunt and fight as well as any cat. Jayfeather still 
heals us.” 

“Maybe you're right... .” 

Bumblestripe stepped forward out of the shadows. 
“Dovewing, you’re not angry with me, are you, that I 
told Bramblestar?” 

“No.” But Dovewing brushed past him quickly and 
headed toward the camp without looking back. 

When Bramblestar emerged from the tunnel he 
spotted Jessy at the other side of the clearing, 
spreading moss out in the sun with Brightheart and 
Whitewing. As soon as she saw Bramblestar she rose 
and bounded over to him. 

“Is everything okay?” she asked. “Those tunnels 


look pretty scary!” 

“Oh, they’re not that bad,’ Bramblestar replied. 
“We’ve fought battles in them before.” 

“Really?” Jessy sounded impressed. 

Bramblestar was about to embark on the story of 
the trouble with Sol and WindClan when he saw 
Squirrelflight returning at the head of a hunting patrol. 
She was carrying a blackbird; Graystripe and 
Brackenfur both had mice, while Rosepetal was 
dragging along a squirrel. 

“TI tell you about it later,’ Bramblestar mewed to 
Jessy. “I need to have a word with Squirrelflight now.” 
He padded over to the fresh-kill pile, where 
Squirrelflight and the others were depositing their 
catch, and beckoned her aside with a flick of his tail. 

“Ts there a problem?” his deputy mewed. 

‘Tve just heard Dovewing calling in the tunnels,” 
Bramblestar explained. “She was trying to get her old 
hearing back. And Cinderheart is afraid that Lionblaze 
will take too many risks in battle because he can’t 
accept that he can be hurt now.” 

Squirrelflight riffled her whiskers thoughtfully, her 
concern clear in her green eyes. “It’s tough on them,” 


she meowed after a moment, “but I’m sure they’ Il find 
a new balance in the end. After all, they see every day 
how their Clanmates have to live, and they both care 
deeply about the Clan.” 

Bramblestar blinked gratefully. “Thanks, you’re 
probably right. Look, I’m going to give the kittypets a 
battle-training session,” he went on. “Do you want to 
join us?” 

Squirrelflight gazed at him, her eyes narrowed with 
faint amusement. “Oh, no, I think Pl leave that to 
you,” she mewed. “I don’t want to get in the way.” 

Bramblestar’s pelt suddenly felt hot and 
uncomfortable. “Okay,” he mumbled. 

To his relief, the sound of cats brushing through the 
undergrowth distracted him and his deputy. He turned 
to see Millie emerging into the open at the head of her 
patrol, followed by Thornclaw, Ivypool, and Snowpaw. 
All four cats were bristling with agitation. Bramblestar 
padded across the clearmg to meet them, with 
Squirrelflight at his shoulder. Brightheart and 
Whitewing looked up from their task with the bedding, 
and the rest of Squirrelflight’s hunting patrol gathered 
around to listen. 


“Bramblestar!” Millie burst out. “We found fresh 
badger scent!” 

Bramblestar’s ears pricked and he felt an 
unpleasant hollowness in his belly. “Where?” 

“Across our top border,” Millie replied. “Just at the 
edge of ShadowClan’s forest. There were at least two 
of them.” 

‘Td better go take a look,” Bramblestar meowed. 
Glancing around, he beckoned to the two most senior 
warriors. “Brackenfur, Graystripe, you can come with 
me.” 

Jessy pushed herself to the front of the group. 
“And me!” 

“No,” Bramblestar responded. “Remember that 
you and Frankie and Minty are due for a battle-training 
session. Brightheart,” he added, turning to the ginger- 
and-white she-cat, “will you take that over for me, 
please?” 

Brightheart dipped her head. “Sure.” 

Jessy looked disappointed. “PI learn a new move, 
so you’d better watch out when you come back!” 

As she turned away, Bramblestar touched her 
shoulder with his tail-tip. “We’ll take a walk together 


later on,’ he mewed. “Maybe up to the ridge at 
sunset?” 

Jessy’s eyes sparkled. “T’d like that!” 

Bramblestar headed out of the clearing, with 
Brackenfur and Graystripe flanking him. 

“You know,” Graystripe murmured as they headed 
for the ridge, “not all kittypets are bad news. After all, 
Millie was a kittypet. She settled down well in the 
Clan, and we’ve been very happy together.” 

“Yes, of course .. .” Bramblestar wondered where 
Graystripe was going with this subject. Besides, it 
seems harsh to be discussing mates when 
Brackenfur is still grieving for Sorreltail. “Vm 
worried about these badgers,” he meowed. “I wonder 
if they’re the same ones who attacked us before in the 
hollow.” 

“T thought we taught that lot a lesson,” Graystripe 
growled. 

The patrol crossed their own top border and 
headed for the woods beyond ShadowClan territory. 
As they drew closer, Bramblestar began to pick up the 
strongest badger scent he had smelled yet, mingled 
with the scent of terrified cats. He exchanged a glance 


with Brackenfur and Graystripe. “Something’s 
seriously wrong here,” he muttered. 

The scent grew stronger. Determined to find out 
more, Bramblestar risked venturing into the trees 
above ShadowClan’s border, his Clanmates treading 
warily behind him. Thrusting through a dense patch of 
ferns, he halted on the edge of a clearing and stared in 
horror at the scene of destruction. 

Grass and bracken were trampled down over a 
wide area. The reek of blood hit Bramblestar in the 
throat, and he spotted streaks and splotches of it on the 
grass. Tufts of fur lay scattered, most of it from cats. 

“Oh, StarClan!” he whispered. “Did any cats die 
here?” 

Brackenfur gave him a hard prod in the side. 
“ShadowClan’s coming!” he hissed. 

Bramblestar hadn’t heard the approaching patrol. 
Rapidly he backed into the ferns and crouched down 
with Graystripe and Brackenfur beside him, hoping that 
the stench of battle in the clearmg would hide their 
ThunderClan scent. Peering through the arching fern 
fronds, Bramblestar watched the ShadowClan patrol 
cross the clearing, heading deeper into the woods. 


Rowanstar was in the lead, with Tigerheart, 
Ferretclaw, and Tawnypelt. All of them looked 
battered and scarred. 

That must be from fighting with the badgers, 
Bramblestar thought. 

As the patrol disappeared into the undergrowth, 
Tawnypelt, who was bringing up the rear, suddenly 
halted. She looked around, her jaws parted to taste the 
air. Then she ran across the clearing toward the ferns. 
Bramblestar rose to his paws and stepped out into the 
open to meet her. 

“We’re not trying to cause trouble,’ he meowed 
before she could speak. “We never meant for you to 
know we’d been here.” 

“You're my brother,” Tawnypelt responded. ‘Td 
recognize your scent anywhere.” 

Bramblestar winced when he saw fresh cuts 
across his sister’s muzzle and a clump of fur missing 
from her shoulder. “We were tracking the badgers,” he 
explained. “Have they moved into your territory?” 

“Not our usual territory,’ Tawnypelt mewed. “But 
there are some old sandy sets in these woods. It looks 
like several badgers have moved in since the flood. 


The water must have driven them out of their original 
homes.” 

“Well, the floods are going down now,” 
Bramblestar mewed, trying to sound hopeful. “Maybe 
they’ ll go back where they came from.” 

“And maybe hedgehogs will fly,’ Tawnypelt 
growled. “Bramblestar, my Clan is suffering so much. . 
. . The kittypets have stopped bothering us since you 
fought them, but now the badgers are making it 
impossible for us to hunt here. And most of our old 
territory is still underwater.” She lowered her head, 
and her voice was full of shame as she continued. “I 
was too harsh with you before,’ she confessed. 
“Rowanstar and I—and all of ShadowClan—should 
have been more grateful for your help with the 
kittypets.” 

“That doesn’t matter,” Bramblestar murmured, 
touching his nose to her ear. “I know we should never 
have interfered. It won’t happen again.” 

Tawnypelt raised her head again, her green gaze 
locking with her brother’s. “Do you really mean that? 
Because I don’t think we can fight these badgers 
alone. We’re too weak, too hungry.” 


Bramblestar gazed at her. “Are you asking for 
ThunderClan’s help?” 

Tawnypelt took a deep breath. “Yes,” she 
meowed. “I am.” 





CHAPTER 28 
de 


S 


Bramblestar 5 mind was whirling as he went back to 
Brackenfur and Graystripe. He said nothing to his 
warriors, and they accepted his silence and didn’t 
question him. 

Rowanstar made it clear that he didn t want any 
more interference from ThunderClan, Bramblestar 
thought as he led the way back to camp. I respect 
that. But its clear that ShadowClan is in great 
trouble. Can I stand aside and let them fall? That 
night, as he curled up in his nest, Bramblestar raised 
his head and prayed silently to StarClan. Send me a 
dream, he begged. Speak to me and tell me what 1 
should do. 

As sleep surged over him, Bramblestar found 
himself walking beside the lake—a lake shrunk back 
into its old boundaries. Pale sunlight glinted on the 
water, turning it to silver, the surface ruffled by a 
gentle breeze. Bramblestar looked around, expecting to 
see Firestar. Instead the wispy shape of an enormous 
cat began to appear on the other side of the lake, taller 


than the trees, broader than a Twoleg den, the tips of 
her ears reaching up to the clouds. As the figure grew 
more solid, Bramblestar saw that it was a dark gray 
she-cat with a broad, flat face and amber eyes. Not 
Firestar, but Yellowfang! 

The former medicine cat stood at the edge of the 
lake, and at her paws the silver water turned red with 
blood: swirls of blood that rose to the surface of the 
water until the whole lake was scarlet. 

Bramblestar’s eyes stretched wide. “Is that how 
much blood is going to be spilled?” he whispered. 

“Blood does not have to mean death,” Yellowfang 
meowed, her voice echoing from the hills. “It can bring 
more strength than you can imagine.” 

“What do you mean?” Bramblestar protested. “I 
don’t understand!” 

But Yellowfang didn’t reply. Her form began to 
fade again, and at the same moment the scarlet water 
rose and flooded over Bramblestar, sweeping him off 
his feet. He struggled, flailing his paws, but the water 
choked him in its salty grip and he sank into a swirling 
darkness. 

Bramblestar jolted awake, trembling. Faint 


moonlight spilled into the tunnel. He felt a paw on his 
shoulder, gently calming him, and looked up to see that 
Jessy had left her nest and was bending over him. 

“Was it a bad dream?” she murmured. 

“More than that,’ Bramblestar muttered, 
staggering to his paws. “I need to speak with the 
medicine cats.” 

“You can talk to me if you want,” Jessy offered. 

“No, this is medicine-cat stuff.” Seeing Jessy’s 
hurt expression, Bramblestar added, “T’Il tell you later.” 

He picked his way through the sleeping cats, 
heading farther down the tunnel to where the medicine 
cats slept. Jayfeather roused at the sound of his 
approach, though Leafpool remained curled up, sunk 
deeply in sleep. 

“What do you want?” Jayfeather asked as 
Bramblestar reached his side. 

“T need to talk to you and Leafpool.” 

Jayfeather whisked out his tail to block 
Bramblestar as he reached out a paw to shake 
Leafpool’s shoulder. “Let her sleep,” he warned. “She 
was up earlier to give Sandstorm some tansy for her 
cough. We can wake her later if we need her.” 


Bramblestar nodded. “Let’s talk outside.” 

In the open, he took a long breath of the clear, cool 
air. The night was calm and quiet, with not even a faint 
breeze to stir the branches. The moon was floating 
above the trees, beginning to swell toward full. 

“Leafpool and I have missed a medicine-cat 
meeting at the Moonpool,” Jayfeather remarked. “But 
I doubt many of the others were there. RiverClan is 
still cut off, and we don’t know what the floods are like 
in the mountains.” 

“I hope we can get to the next Gathering,” 
Bramblestar mewed. “We’ve already missed one. 
Have you had any omens about the water going 
down?” 

Jayfeather shook his head. “Not a whisper. Only 
the signs of the waterline dropping below the sticks on 
the slope.” 

Bramblestar sighed. “I suppose we can only watt. 
But meanwhile,’ he continued, trying to feel more 
optimistic, “the kittypets are settling in well. Especially 
Jessy. Did you hear how much fresh-kill she brought in 
from her last patrol?” 

Jayfeather gave him a sidelong glance, his 


narrowed blue eyes so sharp that it was hard to 
remember he was blind. “You”re spending a lot of time 
with Jessy. . . .” he murmured. “You shouldn’t let any 
cats think you care more for the kittypets than your 
Clanmates.” 

For a moment Bramblestar was outraged. / raised 
this cat! I licked him warm when he was a kit, and 
comforted him when he got a thorn in his pad. And 
now he’s making comments about my private life! 
Then he remembered that Jayfeather wasn’t a kit 
anymore. He was ThunderClan’s medicine cat, with 
every right to poke his nose into his Clan leader’s 
business. 

“All the kittypets need my time if they’re to fit into 
the Clan,” he responded, aware that he wasn’t being 
entirely truthful. 

Jayfeather hesitated for a moment, and 
Bramblestar braced himself for a stinging retort. But 
then the medicine cat shrugged, as if he too wasn’t 
comfortable talking about Jessy. “Did you bring me out 
here to enjoy the night air?” he meowed. 

“No,” Bramblestar replied. “I had a dream. . . .” 
Struggling to find the right words, he told Jayfeather 


about Yellowfang’s appearance beside the lake, and 
the blood that had risen when her paws touched the 
water. He repeated the mysterious words she had 
spoken. “She said, ‘Blood does not have to mean 
death. It can bring more strength than you can 
imagine.’ Jayfeather, what do you think she meant? Is 
there going to be another terrible battle? Was 
Yellowfang trying to warn me?” 

Jayfeather twitched his whiskers. “It doesn’t sound 
like a warning of doom,” he admitted. “It’s more like . . 
. something strong. It’s obviously connected with that 
other dream you had, about Firestar,” he continued. 
“When water meets blood, blood will rise.’” 

“And what does that mean?” Bramblestar asked 
tartly. “Why can’t StarClan tell us something clearly, 
instead of talking in riddles?” 

“StarClan tells us as much as they want us to 
know,” Jayfeather retorted. “And sometimes even they 
don’t hold all the answers. You can’t expect them to 
know everything. Sometimes they are just cats, like us. 
Trust your own instincts, Bramblestar. That’s why 
StarClan made you leader, because they had faith in 


33 


you. 


Bramblestar returned to his nest, and this time his 
sleep was untroubled by dreams. When he woke, 
sunlight was pouring in through the tunnel mouth, and 
most of the nests around him were empty. He sprang 
to his paws, alarmed that he had overslept. 

“Take it easy, Bramblestar.” 

At the sound of Jessy’s voice Bramblestar turned 
to see the brown she-cat sitting in her nest with her tail 
wrapped neatly around her paws. 

“T told the others not to disturb you,” she mewed. 
“I know you were awake during the night.” 

“That’s kind of you,” Bramblestar responded, half- 
appreciative and half-annoyed, “but a Clan leader can 
expect to have broken nights.” 

“But you’re not just a Clan leader,” Jessy pointed 
out, rising to her paws and padding over to 
Bramblestar. “You’re a cat, too. You need to look after 
yourself as well as everyone else.” 

Bramblestar touched his nose to her ear. “Maybe 
you’re right.” 

He padded out into the clearmg with Jessy 
following him, to discover that the first patrols had 
already gone out. Squirrelflight was heading down the 


slope with Bumblestripe, Berrynose, and Rosepetal 
behind her. 

“Squirrelflight!” Bramblestar called, pleased that 
he had caught her. “I need a word with you.” 

His deputy halted and turned to Bumblestripe. 
“You lead the patrol,” she ordered. “Check the water 
levels, then try hunting over toward WindClan. We 
haven’t been there for a day or two.” She watched the 
patrol leave before bounding over to Bramblestar. She 
looked faintly surprised when she saw Jessy with him, 
but gave the she-cat a polite nod. “How can I help?” 

Bramblestar glanced around, spotting Graystripe 
beside the fresh-kill pile and beckoning him over with a 
wave of his tail. “Are any of the other senior warriors 
still here? I need to speak with all of them.” 

“Cloudtail and Thornclaw are on a border patrol,” 
Squirrelflight replied. “Brackenfur and Dustpelt went 
to look for more branches for the dens, but they only 
just left. Pll see if I can catch them.” She shot off into 
the undergrowth. 

While he waited for her to return, Bramblestar 
went back into the tunnel, where he found Sandstorm 
talking to Purdy. For once she was telling him a story. 


“So Firestar—he was Firepaw then—was hunting in 
the old forest and he came upon this skinny old gray 
she-cat...” 

“Sandstorm, I need you outside for a moment,” 
Bramblestar meowed. 

“Sure.” Sandstorm rose to her paws. “T l finish the 
story later, Purdy.” 

The elder looked up at her, blinking. “See that you 
do,” he purred. “You spin a good yarn.” 

Sandstorm stifled a mrrow of amusement. “Praise 
indeed!” 

Bramblestar padded farther down the tunnel, 
where he found Jayfeather hauling himself out of his 
nest, his jaws parted in a massive yawn. Leafpool was 
still asleep. 

“Jayfeather, I’ve called a meeting,” Bramblestar 
meowed. “Come and join us outside.” 

When he emerged into the clearing again, followed 
by the medicine cat, he saw Squirrelflight returning 
with Dustpelt and Brackenfur. They all gathered 
together at the foot of the mudpile. 

Jessy was standing nearby, her eyes bright with 
interest, but she didn’t join the others, as if she wasn’t 


sure if she was invited. 

“Jessy,” Bramblestar mewed, “could you find 
Frankie and Minty and help them practice their hunting 
moves?” 

“Sure,” Jessy replied, heading off cheerfully with 
her tail in the air. 

“So what’s all this about?” Squirrelflight asked 
when the kittypet had gone. 

“I think I can guess,” Brackenfur growled. 

Graystripe nodded. “The badgers, right?” 

Bramblestar told them about his patrol the day 
before, and how they had found badger scent and the 
evidence of a battle just inside ShadowClan’s extended 
hunting grounds. He added what he hadn’t even told 
Graystripe and Brackenfur yet: his conversation with 
Tawnypelt and her plea for help. 

“Are you completely mouse-brained?” Dustpelt 
growled when he had finished. “You know how much 
trouble we got into with Rowanstar when we fought 
off those kittypets.” 

“Yes, let ShadowClan fight their own battles now,” 
Brackenfur agreed. 

Bramblestar had expected to get this response, but 


at the same time he couldn’t bear to picture his sister 
and her Clan struggling against the badgers alone. 
“What do you think, Graystripe?” 

“I know how you feel, Bramblestar,” Graystripe 
began, “but none of us want to fight again. Look how 
badly injured Lionblaze was. You could easily lose 
warriors if we take on the badgers. Is that what you 
want?” 

“But the badgers are very close to our territory,” 
Squirrelflight reminded the others. “If we don't deal 
with them now, we could be stormg up trouble for 
later.” 

“True.” Dustpelt raised one hind paw and 
scratched his ear. “But we can meet that trouble when 
it happens.” 

A cough shook Sandstorm's body before she 
spoke. “Remember the time the badgers attacked us in 
the stone hollow?” she rasped. “What if we fight them 
and they follow us back here? We’re barely surviving 
as it is.” 

“So what you’re all saying,’ Bramblestar mewed, 
“is that we should deal with the badgers if they 
interfere with our hunting, but not before?” 


Murmurs of agreement came from all the cats, 
though he thought Squirrelflight remained doubtful. He 
knew he couldn’t argue anymore. “Okay,” he decided, 
“I see your point. But I want to lead a patrol up there 
now, to see if there are any new developments. We’ll 
have to keep a close watch on ShadowClan territory 
from now on. The first sign that those badgers are 
crossing into our adopted territory, we have to be ready 
for them.” 

No cat objected to that. Bramblestar led them all 
out, except for Sandstorm, who went back to finish her 
story for Purdy. For once the graceful she-cat didn’t 
ask to go with the warriors, but seemed happy to go 
back to the tunnel. 

By now the forest beyond the border was 
becoming familiar to the ThunderClan cats. 
Bramblestar was aware of the moment when they 
reached the invisible boundary with ShadowClan. 
There were no scent markers, but fresh scents of the 
rival Clan drifted to his nose from close by. 

“This is weird,” Brackenfur muttered. “Do you 
think these borders could ever become permanent?” 

“You mean, extend our territory out here and still 


keep it safe?” Dustpelt sounded doubtful. “Could we 
even do that?” 

“Let's hope we don’t have to,” Bramblestar 
meowed, dismayed at the thought of trying to keep 
such a long border efficiently patrolled. 

As the patrol padded along the edge of 
ShadowClan territory Bramblestar began to pick up 
new scents of blood and fear, along with the strong 
reek of badger. His pelt prickled. “There must have 
been another fight since yesterday.” 

“That’s not our problem,” Dustpelt reminded him 
sharply. 

“Especially if Rowanstar hasn’t asked for our 
help,’ Graystripe added. “We could find ourselves 
fighting ShadowClan as well as the badgers.” 

With no evidence that the badgers had come any 
closer to ThunderClan hunting territory, Bramblestar 
knew there was nothing to do but turn around and head 
back to camp. His anxiety for ShadowClan and 
Tawnypelt was growing with every sign of conflict, yet 
he didn’t know what he could say to his Clanmates to 
change their minds. 

Desperate for a quiet place to think, when he 


reached the camp he climbed the slope until he could 
sit alone above the tunnel entrance. Warmed by the 
sun on his shoulders, he looked down at his Clanmates. 

Lionblaze had just entered the clearing at the head 
of a hunting patrol. They were loaded down with prey: 
two squirrels, a blackbird, and more mice than 
Bramblestar could count. Lionblaze had recovered 
from his wounds, and his golden tabby pelt gleamed in 
the sunlight. When he had dropped his catch on the 
fresh-kill pile he padded up to Cinderheart, touched 
noses with her, and gave her ears a loving lick. The 
two cats withdrew to a sunny spot and stretched out 
together to share tongues. 

Jayfeather was out in the weak sunshine too, 
taking Briarlight through her exercises. Bramblestar 
was pleased to see that she had regained some of her 
strength; she was fast and nimble on her front paws. 
She was practicing pulling herself up on the low- 
hanging branch of an elder bush, then letting herself 
roll onto her back with a yowl of triumph. 

“What? What’s all the yowlin’ about?” Just below 
Bramblestar, Purdy rushed out of the tunnel. “Is it 
badgers? Just let me at ‘em!” 


“It’s okay, Purdy,” Millie reassured him. “It’s only 
Briarlight.” She turned to Graystripe, her eyes glowing 
with pride. “Just look what she can do!” 

Briarlight repeated her exercise, while her mother 
and father stood close together to watch, their pelts 
brushing. Bramblestar felt his heart warmed, his 
troubles fading for a moment. 

Movement behind Bramblestar distracted him and 
he turned, expecting to see Jessy. But the newcomer 
was Squirrelflight. 

“You’re going to take us into battle against those 
badgers, aren’t you?” she mewed, coming to sit beside 
him. 

Bramblestar nodded; until that moment he hadn’t 
realized that he had made the decision. 

“Why would you risk your own Clan to help 
Tawnypelt and ShadowClan?” Squirrelflight asked. 

Bramblestar thought of the scene he had just 
watched in the clearing. He knew that it might be 
destroyed if he went ahead with his plan. But it didn’t 
change a thing in his mind. 

“Because I'd do anything to help my sister,” he 
meowed, meeting his deputy’s green gaze. “As would 


33 


you. 

As he spoke, Bramblestar finally understood why 
Squirrelflight had lied to him about the kits. He had 
already forgiven her, because he knew that she had 
been trying to do the best for every cat, but only now 
did he appreciate the impulse that had made her build 
so much upon something that wasn’t true. “That’s why 
you did what you did, isn’t it? You took Leafpool’s kits 
because you loved her.” 

Squirrelflight nodded, her eyes so full of feeling 
that he guessed she couldn’t find words to answer. 

“I have nothing but respect for your courage,” he 
told her. Looking down into the clearmg again, he saw 
Lionblaze sprawled contentedly beside his mate, and 
Jayfeather happily bossing Briarlight around. “We 
raised three fine cats,’ he mewed, remembering 
Hollyleaf’s brave death when she sacrificed herself to 
save Ivypool. 

He and Squirrelflight sat in silence, gazing down at 
their kits and their other Clanmates, cheerful in the 
sunlight below. Bramblestar felt Squirrelflight’s fur 
touch his, and he felt closer to her than he had for 
seasons, as if the glow of sunshine was enfolding 


them. 

“PI support you, Bramblestar,’ Squirrelflight 
murmured. “If you want to take ThunderClan into 
battle on ShadowClan’s behalf, I will be with you.” 





CHAPTER 29 
de 


S 


Bramblestar scrambled to the top of the mudpile. 
“Let all cats who are old enough to catch their own 
prey join here outside the tunnel for a Clan meeting!” 
he yowled. 

The cats who were already outside looked up at 
him curiously, then clustered closer together at the foot 
of the mudpile. Leafpool emerged from the tunnel with 
Sandstorm and Purdy. Daisy and the apprentices 
trotted out of the undergrowth carrying balls of moss, 
which they dropped near the tunnel entrance before 
sitting down to listen. Jessy sprang down from the 
branch of a tree, where she had been practicing 
climbing techniques with Frankie and Minty. 

Bramblestar looked down at his Clan and took a 
deep breath. They aren t going to like what I have to 
tell them. 

“Cats of ThunderClan,” he began. “I’ve thought 
hard about this, and I’ve come to a decision. It’s 
possible that ShadowClan will drive out the badgers by 
themselves, but if that doesn’t happen within the next 


quarter moon, then we will help them.” 

“What?” Thornclaw sprang to his paws. “Have 
you got bees in your brain?” 

“After what Rowanstar said to you?” Dustpelt 
challenged. 

Daisy was looking up at Bramblestar with outrage 
in her eyes. “Must mothers watch their kits die again?” 

More angry yowls rose up from the rest of the 
Clan. Bramblestar felt as if he were standing in the 
blast from a storm, and he dug his claws deep into the 
mud as if he was afraid of being swept away. For a 
moment he was tempted to start justifying himself. No, 
he thought, the word of the Clan leader has to be 
obeyed. It is part of the warrior code. 

But Bramblestar was still worried that he was 
wrong. This was the first decision he had made as 
Clan leader that was unpopular with all his Clan— 
except for Squirrelflight, standing silently supportive 
above the tunnel entrance, and Jessy, who was 
watching him with bright eyes and ears pricked. / 
respect each one of these warriors, he thought 
unhappily. J don t like it when they challenge me. 

“We will begin training at once, so we can be 


ready,” he finished curtly, and jumped down from the 
mudpile. 

His paws had scarcely touched the ground when 
Daisy pushed her way through the crowd of cats. “I 
chose to stay with ThunderClan because I trusted that 
my kits and I would be kept safe,” she told him, her 
normally gentle voice deepened to a growl. “T thought I 
could trust you, too, Bramblestar. Why do we need to 
face danger again so soon?” 

Before Bramblestar could reply, Jessy skirted the 
nearest group of cats to stand at his side. “You’re a 
Clan cat through and through,” she told Daisy with a 
respectful nod of her head. “You’ve had courage to 
survive in the past, and you’ ll survive again.” 

Daisy twitched her ears, as if she wasn’t sure if 
she should be offended by a kittypet telling her how to 
behave. “But that doesn’t mean we have to go looking 
for trouble,” she protested. 

“Sooner or later, trouble will come to you,” Jessy 
meowed. “I’ve learned that much about living in a 
Clan! Bramblestar’s right to deal with the badgers 
now, before they try to take over ThunderClan 
territory.” 


Daisy was silent for a moment. At last she raised 
her eyes to gaze directly at Bramblestar. “You’re our 
Clan leader,” she mewed. “I trust you. But that doesn’t 
mean I have to like it.” 

“Thank you, Daisy.” Bramblestar dipped his head. 
“No warrior should enjoy going into battle. But 
sometimes we have no other option. Thanks, Jessy,” 
he added when Daisy had walked away. “You said 
exactly the right thing.” He let out a long sigh. “I wish 
I felt as certain about this as my Clanmates think I 
am,” he confessed. “Would Firestar have done this? 
Probably not,” he answered his own question. “He had 
no kin in ShadowClan. Oh, for StarClan’s sake, why 
does this have to be so difficult?” 

“Well, you can’t change your mind now,” Jessy 
pointed out. 

Murmuring agreement, Bramblestar turned toward 
the rest of his Clanmates. They were clustered around 
Squirrelflight, who was organizing them into groups to 
train for the battle. 

“T don’t see why we’re doing this,” Mousewhisker 
grumbled. “The badgers are ShadowClan’s problem.” 

“And Pm your problem,” Squirrelflight flashed 


back at him. “So just get on with it.” 

She continued quietly dividing up the groups. 
Bramblestar noticed that she was choosing cats who 
had taken part in the battle against the badgers in the 
hollow, so many seasons ago, to lead the training. 
Graystripe, Brackenfur, and Cloudtail gathered younger 
warriors around them, and Squirrelflight led another 
group herself, including all three kittypets. 

“Remember that some of us have fought badgers 
before,” she reminded them when the groups were 
ready. “We know what works and what doesn’t. The 
badgers are a lot bigger and stronger than you, so you 
should focus on what you do better than them: moving 
swiftly, darting in to strike, and getting out of range 
before they can retaliate. Work in pairs, with one of 
you distracting the badger while the other gets a blow 
in. And don’t forget that you can jump onto their 
backs. It’s far harder for them to throw you off than it 
would be for another cat.” 

Bramblestar joined Brackenfur’s group, with 
Ivypool, Snowpaw, Poppyfrost, and Lilypaw. 
Brackenfur took a pace back, prepared to give up the 
leadership to Bramblestar, but Bramblestar shook his 


head and gestured with his tail to tell Brackenfur to go 
on. 

Brackenfur led his group up toward the ridge until 
they found a clearing. “Right,” he meowed. “We’ll 
start with the move Squirrelflight mentioned, leaping 
onto the badger’s back. It’s a good tactic, because up 
there the badger can’t get at you. Snowpaw, do you 
want to start? I'll be the badger.” 

While Snowpaw faced up to Brackenfur, 
Bramblestar spotted a gap between the trees and 
padded over to gaze across into ShadowClan’s 
territory. I wonder whats happening over there? 
What are the badgers doing? Is Rowanstar able to 
deal with them after all? 

Turning back into the clearing, he saw that 
Snowpaw and Lilypaw were having trouble learning 
the move. They should have been able to use their 
speed to spring up and balance on the badger’s 
shoulder, to claw its fur, or even topple it off its paws. 
But they couldn’t stay on Brackenfur’s back for more 
than a couple of heartbeats before they fell off. Their 
waving legs and exposed bellies made them vulnerable 
before they could scramble upright again. Even though 


Lilypaw was older and more experienced, she was so 
small that she had the same difficulties as Snowpaw. 

“I'd have eaten you both by now,” Brackenfur 
meowed frustratedly. 

Bramblestar was about to offer his help when 
Ivypool stepped forward. “Listen,” she hissed. “The 
badgers are going to tear you apart if you don’t shape 
up. When you leap, dig your claws in hard. Bite down 
on their neck, and if you can get close enough, rip their 
eyelids and claw out their eyes.” 

Ivypool’s voice was low but powerful, and for a 
moment Bramblestar was shocked by her ruthless 
advice. Then he remembered the many moons that 
Ivypool had spent being trained in the Dark Forest. She 
had learned more savagery there than most warriors 
could imagine. Thornclaw, Blossomfall, and 
Birchfall must know how to fight like this, too, he 
thought. At least their experiences will be useful 
here. 

When the apprentices tried the move again, 
Bramblestar could see the effects of Ivypool’s advice. 
They kept their balance, ther claws digging into 
Brackenfur’s back. Lilypaw bent over Brackenfur’s 


shoulder until her ears almost brushed the grass and 
hooked his paws out from under him. As he fell onto 
his side, Snowpaw flexed his claws, aiming for 
Brackenfur’s eyes. 

“Hey!” Brackenfur yowled. “Don’t do that for 
real!” 

Snowpaw leaped back, giving Brackenfur the 
chance to haul himself back onto his paws. “Sorry,” he 
mewed. “I got carried away.” 

“No harm done,” Brackenfur responded. 

Ivypool gave an approving nod. “Much better. That 
was fierce.” 


When his patrol returned to the camp, Bramblestar 
noticed that the atmosphere had improved. Allthe cats 
were discussing the battle practice, the younger 
warriors especially pleased with what they had 
learned. Even though Bramblestar figured they were 
still not thrilled about going into battle on behalf of 
another Clan, there was a new sense of purpose and 
pride in their skills. 

“I think theyll be okay,” Squirrelflight remarked, 
padding up to him where he sat at the foot of the 


mudpile. 

“How did you get on with the kittypets?” 
Bramblestar asked. 

“Frankie and Jessy did well,” Squirrelflight replied. 
“But Minty has no confidence at all.” 

Bramblestar nodded. “She’s not bred to fight. And 
they’re kittypets: Can we even ask them to take part in 
this battle at all?” 

“Jessy and Frankie are keen to join in,” 
Squirrelflight told him. “I can’t stop them.” 

Daisy poked her head out of the tunnel; clearly she 
had overheard what they were discussing. “Minty 
could stay behind with me and the other cats who 
don’t fight,” she meowed. “You can't risk the lives of 
your entire Clan. This isn’t the battle against the Dark 
Forest all over again.” 

Bramblestar nodded. “Who else do you think 
should stay behind?” 

“Enough warriors to defend the camp,” Daisy 
meowed. “Maybe Brackenfur and Spiderleg, for a 
start.” She gave her whiskers a twitch. “Pd ask 
Graystripe and Dustpelt, too, but it’s no use expecting 
those gray muzzles to listen to me!” 


While she was speaking, Leafpool emerged from 
the bushes with a mouthful of chervil and padded up to 
Bramblestar. She set down her bundle of herbs and 
waited patiently for a chance to speak. 

“Do you need something?” Bramblestar mewed. 

“Tt’s about Cinderheart.” Leafpool looked troubled. 
“T think she should stay here in camp, too.” 

Baffled, Bramblestar exchanged a glance with 
Squirrelflight. Was there a problem with Cinderheart 
that he didn’t know about? Squirrelflight shrugged. 
“Why do you think that?” Bramblestar prompted. 

Leafpool hesitated. “I just don’t think you can 
expect Cinderheart to face badgers.” 

“Okay.” Bramblestar was still puzzled. “If she 
wants to stay behind, that’s fine by me.” 

“No, I want you to tell her—” Leafpool began, 
then broke off. 

Bramblestar had a feeling that his medicine cat 
knew something she wasn't telling him. “I can’t force 
Cinderheart not to fight,” he meowed. “She is a 
warrior, after all.” 

Leafpool sighed, shaking her head, then picked up 
her bunch of chervil and headed into the tunnel. A cold 


trickle of apprehension crept down Bramblestar’s 
spine, and after a heartbeat’s hesitation he followed 
her. 

“Are you okay?” he asked. “Have you had a bad 
omen about this battle?” 

Leafpool stopped and faced him, her blue eyes 
clouded with distress. In a rush Bramblestar 
remembered the last battle against the badgers, in the 
hollow. Leafpool had returned to find the whole camp 
in torment and her mentor, Cinderpelt, dying in the 
nursery, torn apart by a badger as she protected 
Sorreltail while she gave birth. Mouse-brain! he 
scolded himself. No wonder the thought of fighting 
badgers frightens her. 

“It won’t be like the last time,” he promised. 
“These badgers won’t come anywhere near where we 
live. I will keep our Clanmates safe.” 

“Thank you, Bramblestar.” Leafpool’s response 
was quiet, and Bramblestar sensed that for some 
reason she still wasn’t reassured. 

When he headed out of the tunnel again, the sun 
was setting, the long shadows of the trees already 
covering the clearing. Above the topmost branches, 


scarlet light was fading from a sky barred with cloud, 
and a single warrior of StarClan shone overhead. 
Bramblestar spotted Jessy choosing prey from the 
fresh-kill pile, and padded over to join her. As he drew 
closer he noticed that one of her ears was scratched 
and she had lost a tuft of fur from near her tail. 

“You look a bit battered from the training,” he 
commented as he joined her. “You know, you don’t 
have to fight.” 

Jessy looked up from her blackbird and narrowed 
her eyes. “If I choose to fight, will you stop me?” 

“Of course not,’ Bramblestar replied. He felt a 
warm glow of admiration for her courage, her 
readiness to fight on behalf of cats she had known for 
barely a moon, and he leaned closer to her until his 
shoulder rested on her flank. Jessy jerked backward, 
wincing and drawing in a sharp, hissing breath. 

“Sorry,” she mewed. “I’ve got a massive bruise 
there.” 

“I hope your opponent has one, too,” Bramblestar 
responded. 

Jessy’s eyes glinted with amusement. “Let’s just 
say that Birchfall will take kittypets more seriously 


from now on!” 


The sun had cleared the tops of the trees by the 
time Bramblestar ventured into ShadowClan territory 
at the head of a border patrol. Two sunrises had 
passed since his decision to go into battle, and there 
had been no more news from ShadowClan. Previous 
patrols had found more fresh scent, more traces of 
blood, but no sign of cats or badgers. 

Something has to happen soon, Bramblestar 
thought. 

The forest was silent as he brushed through the 
long grass, with Dovewing, Cherryfall, and 
Molewhisker behind him. His ears were pricked and 
his jaws parted to taste the air. At every paw step his 
gaze darted around to make sure that nothing 
unexpected was creeping up on them. Dovewing 
looked strained and anxious, and Bramblestar guessed 
that she was still trying to hear as far as she had 
before the Great Battle. /’d love to know what's 
going on in ShadowClan, Bramblestar thought. But 
I’mnot going to tell her that! 

He halted as he breathed in a familiar scent. 


Tawnypelt! “You go on ahead,” he told the others. 
“Dovewing, take the lead.” 

When the rest of his patrol had vanished into the 
undergrowth, Bramblestar followed his sister’s scent 
trail until he spotted her pushing her way out from a 
clump of ferns, with a mouse hanging limply in her 
jaws. 

“Tawnypelt!” he meowed in a low voice. 

His sister stiffened, then whipped around to face 
him, so startled that she dropped the mouse. 
“Bramblestar! Get out—there’s a patrol in the trees 
over there.” 

Bramblestar beckoned with his tail. “Come here, 
then.” 

Tawnypelt snatched up her prey and sped toward 
him; together they slid under the low-growing branches 
of a holly bush. 

“ThunderClan will help ShadowClan attack the 
badgers,’ Bramblestar told his sister, his voice rapid 
and urgent. “But we need to know what’s happening. 
Has Rowanstar planned a strike?” 

Tawnypelt’s green eyes widened in astonishment. 
“You'll do that with your whole Clan?” 


Bramblestar gave her a terse nod. “Don’t try to 
talk me out of it. I know you need help—and we don’t 
want badgers settling in these woods either.” 

Tawnypelt rested her tail-tip on his flank. “I asked 
for your help. I’m not going to turn it down now.” 

“Tell me what’s going on,” Bramblestar prompted. 

“Rowanstar plans to attack tomorrow night,” his 
sister meowed, “before the moon gets any brighter.” 

“Okay. We’ll be there.” 

“Tawnypelt!” A cat yowled in the distance. 

‘Tve got to go,” Tawnypelt muttered. “Thanks, 
Bramblestar.” She wriggled out on her belly from 
under the bush and disappeared. 

Bramblestar tracked down the rest of his patrol 
and returned to camp, where he found Squirrelflight 
and his other Clanmates returning from battle practice. 

“I saw Tawnypelt,” he told his deputy. “She says 
that Rowanstar is planning to attack the badgers 
tomorrow night.” 

“This is it, then.” Squirrelflight flexed her claws. 
“Well, we're as ready as we’ ll ever be.” 

In the clearing outside the tunnel, all the talk was 
of the forthcoming battle as Bramblestar’s Clanmates 


discussed different moves, arguing about which ones 
worked best. Suddenly feeling in need of some space, 
he headed down the slope toward the lake. 

“Hey, Bramblestar!” Lionblaze called after him. 
“Can I come with you?” 

“Sure.” Bramblestar waited while the golden tabby 
tom bounded across the clearing. “I’m just going to 
check the water levels.” 

Companiably the two cats trotted through the trees 
side by side. 

‘Tve got something to tell you,” Lionblaze 
confessed as they skirted the top of the cliffs that 
surrounded the hollow. “Cinderheart is expecting my 
kits.” 

Bramblestar halted. “That’s wonderful! I can’t 
say I’m surprised.” 

Lionblaze scrabbled in the leaf-mold with his front 
claws, ducking his head in embarrassment. “Uh... 
well... Cinderheart’s such a great cat.” 

“And she’ll make a great mother,’ Bramblestar 
meowed. “Lionblaze, this is the best news I’ve heard 
in moons. Kits are the future of the Clan.” 

“I need to ask you something,” Lionblaze went on 


as they continued toward the lake. “I don’t want 
Cinderheart fighting the badgers. Will you tell her not 
to come?” 

“I’m not sure any cat can tell Cinderheart what to 
do,” Bramblestar replied. “But I'll do my best.” 

Of course—Leafpool must know about this, and 
that’s why she was so worried about Cinderheart 
fighting! Bramblestar realized. But he was still 
puzzled. Why couldnt she just say so? 

Lionblaze’s eyes were shining and his paw steps 
were light as he brushed through the undergrowth. 
Bramblestar felt his heart warmed by the happiness of 
the cat he still thought of as his son, and yet concern 
about the battle hung over him like a stormcloud in an 
otherwise clear sky. 

I must keep Lionblaze safe as well. These kits 
deserve to grow up with both their parents. 

Lionblaze picked up the pace, so that he was the 
first to burst out of the trees on the shore above the 
lake. “Look!” he yowled. 

Bramblestar hurried to catch up with him, and 
found him standing next to one of the sticks they had 
positioned to check the change in water level. Now it 


stood high and dry several fox-lengths away from the 
edge of the flood. 

“See how far the water has gone down!” 
Lionblaze exclaimed. “It won’t be long before we can 
go home. Our kits will be born in the nursery!” 

Bramblestar nodded. “Let’s reposition the sticks, 
and then we’ll go look at the hollow.” 

When they had retrieved the sticks and driven 
them into the ground at the water’s edge, the two cats 
climbed the slope again until they reached the cliff top. 
This time they padded right up to the edge and peered 
over. The water had dropped down far enough to 
reveal dark shapes rising up, thorny and misshapen by 
the weight of the flood. 

“Look, those branches must be the top of the 
warriors’ den.” Lionblaze pointed with his tail. “And 
over there’s the nursery—I can just see the roof with 
the interwoven brambles.” 

Bramblestar crouched beside him, scanning the 
cliffs where the marks of the flood still remained, and 
the debris thrown among the tumbled rocks that led up 
to the Highledge. “It's going to take a lot of work to 
rebuild,’ he murmured, thinking of how the surging 


water must have torn all of the nests away, and how 
much mud and litter would have been swept in on the 
flood. “But we’ll do it, however long it takes,” he 
added. 

Returning to camp, Bramblestar looked for 
Cinderheart and found her in the tunnel with Leafpool 
and Sandstorm. She lay on one side; Bramblestar 
guessed that Leafpool had been examining her. 

“Lionblaze told me about the kits,’ Bramblestar 
announced. “Congratulations, Cinderheart.” 

“Thank you,” Cinderheart purred. “I’ve hoped for 
this for so long.” 

“So with the kits in mind,” Bramblestar went on, “I 
thought you might not want to fight the badgers.” 

Cinderheart raised her head, a glint of annoyance 
in her blue eyes. “I’m expecting kits,” she snapped. 
“T’m not sick! I can fight just as well as any cat.” 

Bramblestar knew she was right, and wasn’t quite 
sure how to argue with her. He could order her to stay 
in camp, but he didn’t want to offend her. 

While he was still searching for the right words, 
Sandstorm stretched out a paw and laid it gently on 
Cinderheart’s flank. “Remember you’re not making 


decisions for yourself alone now,” she mewed, her 
voice still hoarse from her attack of whitecough. “You 
have to think of the kits inside you. Is it fair to put them 
at risk before they’ve even been born?’ 

Cinderheart opened her jaws to reply, then 
hesitated. 

“There’ Il still be a lot to do in the camp, preparing 
for the wounded and keeping the fresh-kill pile 
stocked,” Sandstorm went on. 

“T could certainly use the help,” Leafpool added. 

The annoyance faded from Cinderheart’s gaze. 
Finally she nodded. “Okay, I'll stay,’ she meowed. 
“Sandstorm, what was it like when you were carrying 
Leafpool and Squirrelflight? What should I do to make 
sure my kits are born healthy?” 

Aware that he couldn't add anything to this 
conversation, Bramblestar crept quietly away. None of 
the she-cats saw him go. Outside the tunnel he spotted 
Squirrelflight giving herself a quick groom in a patch of 
sunlight. “Hi,” he meowed, bounding over to her. 
“Lionblaze just told me some good news: He and 
Cinderheart are having kits.” 

Squirrelflight froze in the middle of drawing her 


paw over her ear. “Wow!” she exclaimed, her eyes 
widening. “Our kit having kits! That’s awesome.” A 
deep purr rumbled up from her chest. 

Bramblestar gulped. 7 hadnt looked at it quite 
like that before. “Great StarClan, that makes me feel 
old!” he mewed. 

Squirrelflight flicked her tail at him. “Don’t be 
mouse-brained.” 

Bramblestar gazed at her, stifling a small mrrow of 
amusement. Then he remembered the badgers, and his 
amusement faded. 

“At sunrise tomorrow, don’t organize any more 
battle-training patrols,” he told Squirrelflight. “Just the 
usual hunting and border patrols. They’ll need to save 
their strength for the end of the day.” 

Looking suddenly somber, Squirrelflight nodded. 
“Your warriors are ready, Bramblestar. And may 
StarClan be with us all.” 





CHAPTER 30 
de 


v 


Dusk was gathering under the trees as the last 
glance of sunlight faded from the sky. The air was 
warm and filled with the fresh scents of newleaf. The 
whole forest seemed full of hope and recovery, and yet 
Bramblestar knew, as he leaped onto the top of the 
mudpile, that he was about to lead his Clanmates into 
another deadly battle. Looking down on them, seeing 
the gleaming eyes of every cat turned toward him, 
Bramblestar’s courage wavered and for a moment he 
didn’t know what to say. Then he met Squirrelflight’s 
calm, trusting gaze, and he felt stronger again. 

“Cats of ThunderClan,” he announced. “I know 
what I’m asking of you, and I want you to know that I 
trust every one of you to fight with courage tonight. 
Remember that we’ve taken on badgers before and 
won. We defeated the Dark Forest cats, and they 
were far more dangerous than a few badgers! 
StarClan fought alongside us then, and they may be not 
with us in the same way now, but they’ll be watching 
over us, just as they always have. ThunderClan 


warriors, to victory!” 

“Bramblestar! Bramblestar!” his Clanmates 
yowled. 

Bramblestar realized with a stab of relief that after 
their earlier hostility they were all with him now, ready 
to risk their lives to save ShadowClan and to rid the 
forest of the threat from badgers. 

Jessy and Frankie looked as enthusiastic as the 
Clan cats, joining in to call his name. Jessy’s eyes were 
sparkling with excitement. Bramblestar nodded to her, 
inviting her to walk beside him as he sprang down from 
the mudpile and prepared to lead his cats out of the 
camp. 

Leafpool, Jayfeather, Purdy, and Sandstorm were 
clustered together just outside the tunnel. Minty and 
Daisy were with them, while Graystripe, Thornclaw, 
and Cherryfall, who had agreed to stay behind and 
defend the camp, took up positions around the edge of 
the clearing and stood there watchfully. 

As the rest of the Clan began to move off, 
Cinderheart bounded up to Lionblaze and touched 
noses with him. Lionblaze gave her a tender lick 
around the ears, and briefly twined his tail with hers. 


“Please be careful,” Cinderheart begged. “Think of 
our kits and stay away from danger.” 

“I can’t promise that, but I promise I’ll come back 
to you,” Lionblaze murmured. 

Bramblestar led his warriors out of the clearing, 
hearing the voices of the cats who remained echoing 
through the trees behind him. 

“Good-bye! Good luck!” 

“Give the badgers a few good scratches from 
me!” 

“We’ll keep the camp safe!” 

At last the voices died away, and the ThunderClan 
cats padded in silence through the darkening forest. 
The moon appeared above the tops of the trees, 
shedding a silver light over the open spaces, while the 
shadows of the undergrowth seemed even darker. The 
warriors crossed the top border into the wild woods, 
and along the line of the ridge to the invisible border 
with ShadowClan’s extended territory. 

Here Bramblestar paused. He could feel that his 
cats were tense and anxious as the moment of the 
battle drew closer. Turning to face them, he spoke to 
them again, his voice lower so that they had to gather 


around tightly to listen. 

“Remember that this is ShadowClan’s battle first,” 
he meowed. “Our help is unexpected.” 

“More like unwanted,” Dustpelt muttered, glaring 
into the darkness. 

Bramblestar ignored the interruption. “Whatever 
happens,” he went on, “however ShadowClan reacts, 
we do not get into fights with them. We’re here to 
drive out badgers. Nothing else.” 

Murmurs of agreement rose from the assembled 
cats. They waited, quivering with anticipation, a few 
tail-lengths inside ShadowClan territory. Bramblestar’s 
ears were pricked for the first sounds of battle, but he 
was still aware of Dovewing by his side. She was 
shaking from ears to tail-tip, and working her claws 
frantically into the loose earth. 

“Are you okay?” Bramblestar whispered, pressing 
himself against her for a heartbeat. 

Dovewing gazed up at him, her blue eyes wide and 
scared. “I don’t know how I can fight without being 
able to see or hear,” she confessed. 

“Like any other cat,’ Bramblestar told her. 
“Dovewing, you're an amazing fighter. I know you 


can do this. You won’t let ThunderClan down.” 

To his relief, his words seemed to calm Dovewing. 
Her trembling died away and her chest heaved as she 
took deep breaths. 

Dovewing had distracted Bramblestar briefly, and 
an outbreak of distant screeches, ripping through the 
dusky air, took him by surprise. A heartbeat later he 
recovered himself. “The battle has begun!” he hissed. 
“With me—now!” 

Waving his tail for his warriors to follow him, 
Bramblestar leaped forward through the trees, 
charging around bushes and pushing his way through 
sodden, rotten-smelling undergrowth. His Clanmates 
raced behind him, silent except for thudding paws and 
the splash of wet ground. 

The sounds of battle grew louder as they bounded 
on; the shrieks and yowls of fighting cats mingled with 
deeper growls and snarls from the badgers. The scent 
of blood and badgers was so thick that Bramblestar 
almost thought he could see it in the air like fog. He 
and his Clanmates pushed through a stretch of thickly 
growing hazel saplings and burst into a clearing. 
Bramblestar realized they were close to the Twoleg 


dens where they had met the hostile kittypets. 

At first Bramblestar could see nothing but badgers: 
their broad shoulders and blunt claws; their pointed 
black heads with a white stripe down the nose 
swinging from side to side as they searched for their 
prey; their enormous teeth gleaming in the moonlight. 
Then he noticed the smaller, swifter bodies of 
ShadowClan cats weaving in and out among the 
badgers, darting forward to slash with outstretched 
claws, and just as quickly falling back out of range. 

But there are so few of them! Bramblestar 
thought in horror. 

With less than a heartbeat’s hesitation the 
ThunderClan warriors leaped forward, letting out 
furious screeches of challenge. Bramblestar heard 
yowls of amazement coming from the ShadowClan 
cats as they realized they were not alone. Rowanstar 
whirled around from the badger he was facing and 
glared at Bramblestar. 

“We didn’t ask for your help!” he spat. 

At the same moment the badger lurched forward 
and swatted Rowanstar across the head with a 
powerful forepaw. Rowanstar staggered and fell. 


Bramblestar sprang forward to stand over his body 
and bared his teeth at the badger. “Get back or I'll slit 
your throat!” he snarled. 

He knew the badger wouldn't understand his 
threat, and bunched his muscles to spring, hoping to 
avoid those terrifying teeth. But before he could move, 
Owlclaw darted in and slashed his claws down the 
badger’s side. The badger, distracted, swung around 
and lumbered off after Owlclaw. 

Bramblestar helped Rowanstar to his paws. “You 
may not have asked for our help,” he panted, “but 
you’ve got it.” 

Rowanstar didn’t reply. For a heartbeat he stood 
dazedly shaking his head, then flung himself back into 
the battle. 

Bramblestar paused to let his gaze sweep around 
the clearing. In the shifting moonlight and shadow he 
couldn’t be sure, but he thought he could count eight 
badgers. Two of them look young, he thought, 
spotting two smaller black-and-white shapes. They 
might not give us too much trouble. No, who am I 
kidding? he added to himself, noticng two old, 
ferocious boars that roared and trampled through the 


undergrowth, fighting as if they belonged to the 
legendary LionClan. They "re all trouble! 

Bramblestar let out a fearsome screech and hurled 
himself forward. The badger closest to him had picked 
up a gray-and-black cat by his scruff and was shaking 
him like a piece of prey. Bramblestar recognized 
Ferretclaw from ShadowClan. His paws flailed 
furiously, but he couldn’t reach the badger to strike a 
blow. 

Bramblestar launched himself upward and dug his 
claws into the huge beast’s shoulder. The badger 
jerked its head and flung Ferretclaw away; 
Bramblestar lost sight of the warrior as he plummeted 
into a clump of ferns. Scrambling up to avoid the 
creature’s snapping jaws, Bramblestar balanced on the 
badger’s neck and raked his claws over and over again 
through its thick fur. He felt fierce satisfaction as blood 
welled up from the marks of his claws. With a bellow 
of pain the badger reared up on its hind paws. 
Bramblestar lost his grip and slid to the ground, landing 
with a thump that briefly drove all the breath from his 
body. He staggered back to his paws to see his enemy 
lumbering off. 


By now the clearing was full of battling cats and 
badgers. ThunderClan and ShadowClan fought side by 
side. Their nimble shapes wove between the clumsy 
forms of the badgers, using speed and skill to avoid the 
badgers’ slashing claws and teeth. 

Bramblestar spotted a badger looming over 
Poppyfrost, who stood bravely in front of it, hissing 
defiance. He raced across the open ground to help her. 
But before he reached her he tripped and rolled over, 
hitting the ground hard, with rocks driving their sharp 
points into his side. Springing up, he found himself at 
the foot of a bank, the steep slope hidden by a thick 
growth of fern. 

This is what we get for fighting outside our 
territory, he thought, shaking his pelt. We dont know 
where the hollows are, or the brambles, or the 
fallen trees that could trap us in a corner. The 
battle inside the ThunderClan camp had been hideous, 
but at least they had known their own terrain well. 

Poppyfrost had disappeared in the moments it took 
Bramblestar to recover. Now he spotted Dovewing 
dashing up to a badger and raking its side with her 
claws before leaping back out of range. All her fears 


seemed to have vanished in the heat of the battle. As 
she prepared to dart in for a second blow, she seemed 
to notice a ShadowClan warrior writhing on the ground 
with the foot of another badger planted on his back. 
Dovewing whirled and raced toward the huge beast, 
sinking her claws and teeth into its leg. The badger 
shifted to attack her, raising its paw enough for the 
ShadowClan cat to crawl away, and Dovewing ducked 
away from the badger’s snapping jaws with one last 
well-aimed blow at its muzzle. 

She may have lost her powers to see and hear 
afar, Bramblestar thought, but she 5 managing pretty 
well without them. 

A few tail-lengths away Lionblaze was fighting 
with one of the old badgers, snarling defiance as he 
leaped up over and over again to slash his claws 
across its eyes and ears. The badger lurched from side 
to side, swiping with its huge paws, but it couldn’t land 
a blow on the whirling, dodging, golden-furred warrior. 

“He's being too reckless!” Squirrelflight gasped, 
appearing at Bramblestar’s side. “Doesn’t he know 
that he can be hurt now?” 

“Oh, he knows,” Bramblestar replied, pride in the 


young warrior warming him through. “But he’s going to 
be a father. He’s fighting to protect Cinderheart and 
their unborn kits. That gives him all the courage he 
needs.” He hesitated, then added, “Once I felt the 
same.” 

Squirrelflight’s green gaze rested on him for a 
heartbeat that seemed to last for seasons. “You are still 
their father,’ she meowed. Then she darted away, 
back into the chaos of the battle. 

Bramblestar glanced around, checking to see if any 
of his cats needed help. He glimpsed Cloudtail and 
Dustpelt, flinging themselves into the thick of the 
fighting together. Blossomfall, Rosepetal, and 
Berrynose had surrounded a badger, confusing it with 
matching attacks until the creature stood helplessly 
roaring in pain. Lionblaze was fighting side by side with 
Pinenose, while Mousewhisker and Stoatfur attacked a 
badger from each side, nimbly leaping out of the range 
of its massive paws. 

Bramblestar noticed that the two kittypets had 
taken on one of the younger badgers. Jessy stood in 
front of it, teasing it by jumping in to tap its nose lightly 
with her paws, her blows hardly grazing its skin, while 


Frankie attacked from behind, digging his claws into its 
hindquarters and biting down hard on its tail. The 
badger roared in fury and frustration, turning around 
and around in its efforts to get at Frankie, while the 
she-cat in front of him kept distracting him. 

Thats a new move, Bramblestar thought, amused 
in the midst of danger. PII have to remember it. 

In the next heartbeat the badger broke away, with 
Frankie pursuing it into the darkness under the trees. 
Bramblestar lost sight of Jessy too, as he dodged 
around a tree stump to help Scorchfur, who was 
battering vainly with his hind paws at a badger that 
held him in its claws. Bramblestar launched himself at 
the badger with an earsplitting screech, scoring his 
claws down its shoulder. The badger dropped 
Scorchfur, and for a few moments the dark gray tom 
and Bramblestar fought together, attacking the badger 
from one side and then the other. It was already 
injured, blood pouring from a wound in its side, and too 
slow for its blows to land on the swifter cats. Soon it 
turned and staggered away, thrusting a path through a 
dense thicket of brambles. 

Scorchfur and Bramblestar faced each other for a 


heartbeat, breathing hard. Then Scorchfur gave a tiny 
nod. “You fight well, ThunderClan cat.” 

“You’re not so bad yourself)” Bramblestar 
responded. 

Turning back to the battle, he spotted Jessy again, 
this time perched on the back of a badger with Ivypool 
and Snowpaw. She and Snowpaw were clawing 
vigorously at the badger’s back, while Ivypool 
balanced on its neck and raked her claws across its 
eyes. 

Bramblestar shuddered. 4 Dark Forest move .. . 

A badger charged in front of Bramblestar, cutting 
him off from Jessy and the others. Poppyfrost and 
Lilypaw raced after it alongside Pinenose from 
ShadowClan. As the badger slowed down, looking for 
a gap in the undergrowth at the edge of the clearing, 
Lilypaw outpaced the other she-cats and with a wild 
screech sprang up to fasten her claws and teeth in the 
badger’s tail. She swung there, all her fur bushed out, 
until the badger found its escape route and blundered 
away. Then she dropped lightly to her paws and 
bounded back to her mentor. 

Bramblestar raced up to meet her. “Lilypaw, that 


was brilliant!” he meowed. “Great job!” 

Lilypaw’s eyes shone with reflected moonlight. 
“T’m fighting for Seedpaw too!” she gasped. 

Once again Bramblestar paused to check on the 
state of the battle. The crowd of struggling animals 
seemed to have thinned out. J saw two badgers leave. 
... Maybe we’re going to win this fight! 

Then Bramblestar spotted another pair of badgers 
at the far side of the clearing. They were crouching 
over the body of a cat who snarled and lashed out at 
them, but couldn’t attack both of them at once. The cat 
was half-hidden by the badgers’ bodies, but a ray of 
moonlight showed Bramblestar a familiar patch of 
tortoiseshell fur. 

Tawnypelt! 

One of the badgers had raised a paw, braced to 
bring it slamming down on the ShadowClan she-cat. 
Bramblestar began racing toward them, but he already 
knew he would be too late. 

Its too far I'll never get to them in time. 
Tawnypelt’s going to die. ... 





CHAPTER 31 
de 


S 


Then Bramblestar saw Squirrelflight. The dark 
ginger she-cat bunched her muscles and soared 
upward in a massive leap, clearing the back of a 
badger that stood in her way. Her paws barely touched 
the ground before she sprang up again, reached a low- 
growing beech branch, then leaped to the fork between 
an ash branch and the tree’s trunk. From there she 
hurled herself down with a terrifying shriek on top of 
the badger looming over Tawnypett. 

The badger’s blow fel, but it barely grazed 
Tawnypelt, who rolled clear. The badger reared up, 
throwing Squirrelflight off. Bramblestar winced at the 
hard thump as his deputy’s body hit the ground, but the 
next moment she was on her paws again. As 
Bramblestar finally raced up to them she met his gaze 
and nodded before throwing herself into the battle. 

Tawnypelt sprang to her paws and faced the 
second badger. Side by side, she and Bramblestar 
forced it back, ducking beneath its gaping jaws to slash 
at its throat. Tawnypelt’s shoulder was oozing blood, 


but the wound didn’t seem to slow her down. 

“Get off our territory!” she snarled at the vast 
creature. “Or PI line my nest with your fur!” 

The badger lumbered away, with Tawnypelt 
following, harrying it with nips at its hind paws. 
Bramblestar, confident that his sister was okay, spun 
around and flung himself at a badger that held 
Crowfrost, the ShadowClan deputy, down with one 
huge paw, while its teeth bit hard into his shoulder. 
Bramblestar leaped up and dug his claws into the 
badger’s neck. It let out an enraged bellow and let 
itself fall sideways, crushing Bramblestar underneath 
its massive body. 

Letting out a howl of pain, Bramblestar struggled 
to free himself, but the badger had him pinned to the 
ground, its stinking flank pressing on his face and filling 
his mouth with fur. He couldn’t get a paw free to 
defend himself. As he fought to breathe, Bramblestar 
felt as if he was sinking into a glittermg darkness. 

StarClan, help me! 

Suddenly the weight lifted off Bramblestar. 
Gasping for breath, he scrabbled to his paws, confused 
for a moment by the roaring and screeching all around 


him, the crashes from the undergrowth and the reek of 
blood. As his vision cleared he saw that Bumblestripe 
had taken on the badger, bravely crouching low to lash 
out at the creature’s belly. From the corner of his eye 
Bramblestar spotted Crowfrost stretched out on the 
ground, his twitching tail-tip all that showed he was 
alive. As he watched, Spiderleg darted out of a nearby 
bush, fastened his teeth in Crowfrost’s scruff, and 
dragged him away. 

Bramblestar staggered toward the badger to help 
Bumblestripe, but at the same moment the badger 
turned tail and headed out of the clearing, leaving a 
trail of blood spattering the ground. 

“Thanks,” Bramblestar panted with a nod to 
Bumblestripe. “Where’s Dovewing?” 

Bumblestripe angled his ears across the clearing. 
“There,” he mewed grimly. 

Looking where he pointed, Bramblestar saw 
Dovewing attacking a young badger side by side with 
Tigerheart. First one, then the other would dart 
forward, slash at the badger’s muzzle, and leap back, 
confusing the badger because it didn’t know which cat 
to attack first. 


Leap and slash... leap and slash . . . At first 
Bramblestar was impressed by the unspoken closeness 
between the two young cats, the natural rhythm they 
shared as they drove the badger back into a bramble 
thicket. But after a moment the sight began to trouble 
him. Where did they learn to fight together like 
that? Any cat would think those two had known 
each other for moons, and trained together. 

But Bramblestar had no time to think about that. 
The sounds of battle were beginning to die away. 
Some of the badgers had already fled, and the others 
were yielding, ready to be chased off. Bramblestar 
allowed himself a sigh of relief. 

It's almost over! 

A heartbeat later he realized he had allowed 
himself to relax too soon. The biggest, most ferocious 
badger hadn’t given up. Bramblestar gaped with 
amazement at its speed as it lumbered across the 
clearmg away from the main throng of battle. He 
realized that its target was two small ShadowClan cats 
—apprentices by the look of them—who were 
crouching together in the shelter of a clump of ferns, 
licking each other’s wounds. They looked up with 


horror in their eyes as the badger bore down on them. 

Bramblestar launched himself forward, but he was 
too late to stop the creature. He raced after it, then 
spotted Jessy hurling herself at the badger from the 
opposite side. 

She waved her tail when she saw Bramblestar. 
“With me!” she screeched. 

Jessy shot straight in front of the badger, 
distracting it from snapping at the two young cats, who 
plunged deeper into the undergrowth with squeals of 
terror. Jumping up and down in front of the badger, 
backing away so that she was always just out of reach, 
Jessy lured it toward the edge of the trees. 

“Come back!” Bramblestar yowled. 

“No,” Jessy responded. “I know what I’m doing!” 

Terrified for her, Bramblestar streaked across to 
her side and kept pace with her as they pelted ahead 
of the badger. Tree roots tripped them and bramble 
tendrils reached out to snag their fur. Exhausted from 
the battle, Bramblestar knew he was too slow. He 
imagined he could already feel the badger’s hot, 
stinking breath on his fur and braced himself for the 
sting of snapping teeth. 


Suddenly the leaf-strewn ground vanished, and the 
two cats lurched to a halt at the edge of the stream on 
the far side of ShadowClan territory. The water had 
gone down, but it was still far too wide to jump across. 
And there was no hope of swimming across the swift- 
flowing current, which snatched debris and branches 
downriver in front of them. 

“Great StarClan, we’re trapped!” Bramblestar 
gasped. “We’ll have to fight our way out.” 

Jessy ignored him; she was frantically scanning the 
water. “It’s here somewhere,” she muttered. 

“What?” Bramblestar panted, aware of the badger 
crashing through the undergrowth, getting nearer with 
every heartbeat. 

Jessy began running downstream, her gaze flicking 
back and forth. Suddenly she halted and turned to 
Bramblestar, balancing right on the edge of the surging 
black water. “Follow me,” she meowed. 

“We can’t swim across that!” Bramblestar 
protested. 

Jessy fixed her amber gaze on him. “Trust me.” 

Bramblestar hesitated, then touched his nose to 
hers. He nodded. “Lead on.” 


The badger broke out of the undergrowth and 
covered the open ground between them with massive 
strides. Bramblestar flexed his claws as it loomed over 
him and Jessy and he looked up into its tiny, malignant 
eyes. 

Jessy gave one more glance around, took a deep 
breath, and jumped into the stream. Bramblestar 
flinched, waiting for her to be swept underwater, then 
realized that she was still standing, fighting the current, 
but with water only reaching up to her belly. 

For a moment Bramblestar stood still, gaping in 
astonishment. 

“Quick!” Jessy screeched. 

Knowing that he was trusting her with his life, 
Bramblestar leaped into the water beside Jessy. His 
paws struck something hard just beneath the surface, 
but before he could get his balance he started to slip. 
Jessy grabbed his scruff in her teeth and hauled him 
back before he could fall into the stream. 

“There’s a tree trunk crossing the stream just 
here,’ she panted. “It’s underwater now, but I 
remembered where it was.” 

I cant believe this! Bramblestar thought, stunned. 


Every hair on his pelt rose in alarm as he stood on top 
of the turbulent current. There was no way of seeing 
the tree beneath the surface, but it was definitely there, 
solid and steady against the flow of water. Bramblestar 
sank his claws into the perilously narrow trunk and 
braced himself. With Jessy beside him he stood firm as 
the badger let out a roar and lunged toward them. 

But the badger didn’t know where the tree trunk 
was. There was a huge splash, soaking both cats, as it 
plunged into the stream and vanished beneath the 
surface. Moments later it reappeared as the current 
washed it down toward the lake, sputtering and 
bellowing as it thrashed its paws. 

Jessy’s eyes gleamed as she watched it out of 
sight. Then both cats jumped back to the bank and 
shook water from their pelts. Bramblestar wanted to 
let out a yowl of pure joy and admiration for Jessy’s 
courage and quick thinking. 

Instead he gave her a nod. “Not bad—for a 
kittypet,” he meowed. 

Jessy let out a small mrrow of amusement. “Not 
bad—for a wild cat,” she retorted. 

Together Bramblestar and Jessy raced back to the 


clearing, to find that the rest of the badgers had gone. 
Warriors from ShadowClan and ThunderClan stood 
side by side, their chests heaving, blood trickling from 
their wounds, as they assessed the damage. 

“How’s Crowfrost?” Bramblestar demanded. He 
couldn’t see the ShadowClan deputy, and knew how 
badly hurt he had been. 

“He’ll be okay,” Pouncetail replied. “Pinenose and 
Stoatfur are helping him back to see Littlecloud.” 

Looking around at the rest of the cats, Bramblestar 
saw that none of them was unmarked. Spiderleg was 
one of the worst injured, with almost all his fur missing 
from one side, while Scorchfur had both ears slashed, 
and Ivypool was standing on three legs with one paw 
raised and bleeding. But all the wounds looked as if 
they would heal in time. 

We won! Bramblestar thought, exhilaration flooding 
through him. We defeated the badgers and survived! 

Then he felt a light touch on his shoulder. He 
turned to see Brightheart, her single eye full of sorrow. 
“It’s Dustpelt,” she whispered. 

With a lurch of horror in his belly, Bramblestar 
followed Brightheart across the clearing. Dustpelt was 


lying on his side in the midst of the trampled debris 
from the battle. Blood was trickling from his mouth and 
his brown tabby body was lacerated with countless 
claw marks. His eyes were closed and his breath 
came in short, shallow puffs. 

Bramblestar crouched beside him. “Hold on, 
Dustpelt,” he begged. “We’ll get help.” 

The tabby tom’s eyes flickered open. “It’s okay,” 
he rasped. “It’s my time.” 

“No!” cried Bramblestar. He leaned forward so 
that his forehead rested against Dustpelt’s. “Not yet. 
Not here. You have served your Clan so well and for 
so long. Now it is our turn to serve you. The elders’ 
den is waiting for you, Dustpelt.” 

The tip of Dustpelt’s tail twitched. “That is not 
where I want to be,” he murmured. “Thank you, 
Bramblestar, for everything. May StarClan light your 
path, always.” 

The ShadowClan cats stood back and allowed 
Dustpelt’s Clanmates to gather around him as his 
breathing grew feebler and his eyes closed again. As 
Dustpelt sighed out his last breath, a pale gray shape 
appeared beside him, a cat with a pale gray pelt that 


glimmered in the moonlight, and the frosty glitter of 
stars around her paws. Her blue eyes shone with love 
as she gazed at the fallen warrior. 

“Ferncloud!” Bramblestar breathed. 

Other, fainter shapes appeared behind her: 
Bramblestar recognized Foxleap, who had died from 
his wounds after the Great Battle; Icecloud, who had 
succumbed to the recent bout of greencough; and 
others with them, all the lost kits of Dustpelt and 
Ferncloud, warriors of StarClan who had come to 
honor their father. Bramblestar stared in amazement as 
the spirit of Dustpelt rose from his mutilated body and 
padded up to Ferncloud, bending his head to touch 
noses with her. The two cats twined their tails together 
and for a moment the clearing shone even more 
brightly with silver light. Then the starry shapes began 
to fade, until all that was left was a few wisps of 
shimmering mist, and then nothing. 

A long sigh escaped Bramblestar. His grief at 
Dustpelt’s death was tinged with a strange feeling of 
joy. He found it so hard to go on without 
Ferncloud, and now they re together again. 

Bramblestar realized that Tawnypelt was standing 


at his side. “I’m so sorry,” she whispered, dipping her 
head toward Dustpelt. “He was a noble warrior. All of 
the Clans will grieve for him.” 

Bramblestar nodded. “May he be at peace now.” 
He suddenly felt exhausted, bitterly aware of every 
scratch and bite on his pelt. He wondered if his legs 
had enough strength to carry him back to his own 
territory. 

Tawnypelt traced his flank with the tip of her tail. 
“I can never thank you enough for what you did 
tonight,” she purred. “This was more than 
ThunderClan protecting its own hunting grounds, 
wasn’t it? You came because you are my brother, and 
I needed you.” 

Bramblestar gazed into her warm green eyes. 
“Always,” he murmured. An image flashed into his 
mind of the lake filling with scarlet water that swirled 
to the surface until it swallowed the reflected starlight. 
Firestar’s strange prophecy echoed in his ears: When 
water meets blood, blood will rise. His vision of 
Yellowfang had shown him the same thing. And finally 
Bramblestar understood. 

Tawnypelt shares my blood. We are the son and 


daughter of Tigerstar and Goldenflower. When the 
flood threatened us both, our kinship gave us 
strength to survive. Thats what the prophecy 
meant! 

Bramblestar didn’t try to explain all this to 
Tawnypelt. He knew this wasn’t the place or the time. 
But he raised his head to look at the stars glittering 
above him, and sent up a silent prayer of thanks to 
StarClan. 

“Tawnypelt, it’s time to go back to camp.” 
Rowanstar’s voice broke into Bramblestar’s thoughts. 

Tawnypelt dipped her head, then touched noses 
briefly with Bramblestar before turning away to join 
her Clanmates, who were limping out of the clearing. 

Rowanstar faced Bramblestar. His orange pelt 
was ruffled and smeared with blood, and one eye was 
swollen closed. But he held his head high, and stood 
with his shoulders squared. “Thank you for your help,” 
he meowed. Then hostility flashed into his eyes. “But 
we didn’t ask for it!” 

Bramblestar said nothing. He wasn’t going to get 
Tawnypelt into trouble by telling her mate about the 
plea for help. He wondered when Rowanstar would 


realize that ThunderClan had enabled them to win this 
battle. He waited for one of the ShadowClan warriors 
to pitch in and point out that without ThunderClan, the 
badgers would have destroyed them all. But no cat 
spoke, and Rowanstar still glared at Bramblestar as if 
he was on the verge of continuing the battle. 

“Don't be like Firestar,” the ShadowClan leader 
growled, drawing his lips back in the beginnings of a 
snarl. “Stop interfering, Bramblestar. This is your last 
warning!” 





CHAPTER 32 
de 


S 


Sunlight, golden and thick as honey, bathed the 
forest. Outside the tunnel most of the cats of 
ThunderClan were basking in the sun’s rays, licking 
their wounds and telling one another stories of the 
battle against the badgers. Two sunrises had passed 
since their expedition to help ShadowClan, but the 
excitement of their victory still bubbled up among them 
like springs of pure water. 

“You should have seen Lionblaze fighting!” 
Amberpaw mewed. “He was like three cats, all on his 
own.” 

“And Jessy was brilliant,’ Frankie added. “She 
wasn’t scared at all!” 

Bramblestar couldn’t share in their cheerful talk. A 
dark mood had settled over him as he wondered if he 
had been right to take his warriors to fight 
ShadowClan’s battle. Rowanstar’s furious parting shot 
had forced Bramblestar to question the risks he had 
taken for an ungrateful rival. 

If I hadnt insisted on helping ShadowClan, 


Dustpelt would still be alive. Bramblestar was 
missing the sharp-tongued, cranky warrior more than 
he would have thought possible. Now he watched 
Dustpelt’s son Spiderleg returning from the place 
where his father had been buried on the slope above 
the tunnel. Spiderleg’s head drooped sadly and his tail 
trailed on the ground. So much pain . . . Hasnt 
enough ThunderClan blood been spilled? 

In addition to grief for Dustpelt, Bramblestar 
wasn’t looking forward to hearing what WindClan and 
RiverClan would have to say about the way 
ThunderClan had interfered again. He had no doubt 
that Rowanstar would claim it had been unnecessary 
and overconfident, and a threat to the independence of 
all the Clans. 

Yes, the badgers have been driven off, but at 
what cost to my warriors? 

A joyful yowl from the direction of the lake 
distracted Bramblestar from his gloomy thoughts. A 
moment later Jessy and Millie rushed out of the trees. 

“The water has gone!” Millie announced. “We can 
get into the hollow!” 

Several cats sprang up and crowded around the 


two she-cats. Their excited voices echoed around the 
clearing. 

“Ts it really dry?” 

“We can go home!” 

“No more sleeping in that horrible, dark tunnel!” 

Brackenfur rose more slowly. “Calm down,” he 
meowed, thrusting himself into the enthusiastic throng. 
“IPI take a lot of work to rebuild the old dens. I'll 
come down now and take a look at the damage.” 

“We’ll come with you!” Snowpaw bounced up and 
down. “We’ll all help!” 

With the apprentices scampering ahead, all the cats 
ran into the trees and headed down the slope. 
Bramblestar fell in behind them, and found that Jessy 
had waited for him at the edge of the trees. 

“Isn’t this great?” she cried, bouncing up to him. 
“At last I can see your home!” Then she paused, 
tipping her head on one side. “Are you worried about 
how much damage has been done?” she asked more 
gently. “You don’t seem as excited as the others.” 

Bramblestar shook his head. “No, I know we can 
repair our dens. Don’t worry, I’m fine.” 

Together they followed the rest of the cats down to 


the hollow. The lower slopes, where the water had just 
retreated, were still wet and slippery. Bramblestar 
watched Amberpaw lose her footing and roll down, tail 
and paws waving, until she managed to stop herself by 
grabbing a tuft of long grass. She sprang up again, 
slicked with mud but not at all bothered by the fall, and 
pelted on after her littermates. 

Bramblestar padded into the hollow and looked 
around. The thorn barrier at the entrance had been 
almost completely swept away; that would need 
restoring before they could feel safe. He was relieved 
to see that he could identify all the dens, though some 
of the branches and all of the moss and leaves that 
plugged holes in the roofs and walls had vanished. The 
nursery roof was sagging and washed-up branches 
blocked the entrance to the medicine cats’ den. 

Walking farther into the camp, Bramblestar had to 
pick his way among debris and a few surviving 
puddles. Scraps of bark, twigs, and leaves littered the 
ground, and there were even a few dead fish. 

“Look, a fresh-kill pile already!” Berrynose joked 
as he padded past. 

Poppyfrost wrinkled her nose and winced. “Not all 


that fresh,” she muttered. 

Brackenfur was moving from den to den, followed 
by Cherryfall and Mousewhisker as he inspected the 
damage. “We’ll need a Jot of brambles to patch that 
up,” he warned, waving his tail at the roof of the 
warriors’ den, which had a jagged hole in the middle. 
“Dustpelt, do you think—” he mewed, then broke off, 
flinching. “Sorry, I forgot,” he mumbled. “I’m not sure 
I can do this without him.” 

Whitewing rested her tail across Brackenfur’s 
shoulders. “You worked with Dustpelt for many 
seasons,” she meowed encouragingly. “You know just 
what he would have done. And we’ll all help rebuild 
our home. You’re not alone.” 

Bramblestar watched the golden-brown tabby 
brace himself and examine the warriors’ den more 
closely. “We”Il need to find the longest bramble tendrils 
we can, to weave between the branches,” he told 
Cherryfall and Molewhisker. “Ivy is good, too. And 
then plenty of moss to plug the gaps. But first we have 
to clear out all the mud and mess.” 

“How do we do that?” Mousewhisker asked, 
ducking under the branches of the fallen tree to peer at 


the clots of sludge that covered the floor of the den. 

“Hmm . . .” Brackenfur narrowed his eyes. 
“There are plenty of dead leaves and ferns lying 
around. They should help to sop up the worst of the 
mud.” 

“Brackenfur!” Daisy’s voice called from across 
the camp. 

Bramblestar turned to see that the cream-furred 
cat had emerged from the nursery with a disgusted 
expression on her face. Cinderheart followed her a 
few paces behind. 

“Brackenfur, the nursery is a disgrace!” Daisy 
announced. “Cinderheart’s not having her kits in 
there.” 

“It's not that bad—” Cinderheart began to protest. 

“Tt’s worse than the tunnel!” Daisy hissed. Turning 
to Brackenfur, she added, “You have to do something 
right now, so it’s ready for when the kits arrive.” 

“Okay, okay,” Brackenfur soothed her. “I’ve only 
got four paws, you know. But I'll make sure the 
nursery’s ready; don’t worry. Pll come over with you 
now, and see what needs to be done.” 

Satisfied, Daisy turned to head back to the nursery, 


and was nearly knocked off her paws by all four 
apprentices, who were giving Frankie, Jessy, and Minty 
a tour of the camp. 

“This is where we sleep,’ Dewpaw announced, 
waving his tail at the wreck of the apprentices’ den. 
“You can go in if you like.” 

Minty peered over the waterlogged ferns that 
edged the den and drew back with a twitch of her 
whiskers. “Er . . . very nice,” she murmured. “But I 
won’t go in just yet, if you don’t mind.” 

“Oh, I know it looks awful now,’ Amberpaw 
responded cheerfully. “But when it’s dried out, and the 
floor covered with moss and bracken, it’s so cozy and 
comfortable!” 

“Except when you stick your tail in my ear,” 
Snowpaw muttered, giving her a prod. 

Lilypaw slipped between the two younger 
apprentices. “That’s enough,” she mewed. “Come on, 
we have to show the kittypets the medicine den.” 

“Yes!” Amberpaw yowled. “Come on, it’s this 
way!” 

The apprentices streamed across the clearing, 
paws slipping in the thick mud that covered the floor. 


“Oh, yuck, Pve got it all over my pelt!” Snowpaw 
squealed. 

The kittypets followed, their expressions torn 
between amusement and confusion. 

“That’s where the fresh-kill pile used to be!” 
Amberpaw explained, pointing with her tail. 

“No, it’s not, mouse-brain!” Dewpaw swatted her 
over the head with one paw. “It was over there!” 

The sight of them lightened Bramblestar’s mood. 
He watched them wriggling through a tangle of 
branches into the medicine cats’ den. Dewpaw got 
stuck, his hind legs waving in the air until Snowpaw 
gave him a push. Frankie and Jessy used their greater 
strength to shift some of the branches aside and 
improve the entrance. 

Bramblestar realized that Squirrelflight had padded 
up silently and was standing at his side. “We’ll be 
home soon, won’t we?” she asked. 

Bramblestar turned to her and nodded, seeing his 
own joy and relief reflected in her face. “I’m sure we 
will” he responded, then added, “I wanted to talk to 
you about the badgers. It worries me that—” 

He broke off as Brackenfur came bounding up, 


looking energized and purposeful. “Bramblestar,” he 
meowed, “can I start organizing building patrols right 
away?” 

“Of course,’ Bramblestar agreed. Glancing at 
Squirrelflight, he added, “P I tell you another time.” 


That night Bramblestar headed to his nest before 
the last traces of daylight had faded from the sky. 
Most of his Clanmates were still gathered outside. 
Though they were tired, their fur muddy and full of 
twigs, they were still bubbling with excitement about 
rebuilding the camp in the hollow. 

As he closed his eyes, Bramblestar could hear 
their cheerful voices drifting down into the tunnel. 

“Berrynose, I’ll never forget seeing you with that 
bramble stuck in your fur!” Poppyfrost purred. “You 
looked like a hedgehog!” 

“It patched a good section of the nursery roof,” 
Berrynose retorted good-humoredly. 

“T thought Snowpaw had turned into a brown cat,” 
his mentor, Ivypool, meowed. “It looked like he was 
trying to clear all the mud out of the camp with his 
pelt.” 


“And Molewhisker,” Rosepetal teased, “remember 
that you have to get off the branch before Brackenfur 
puts it in place. You nearly ended up as part of the 
warriors’ den.” 

Bramblestar drifted into sleep, lulled by the chatter. 
He found himself standing in the hollow on firm, dry 
ground, not the thick layer of mud that covered it now. 
Moonlight washed over his fur as he gazed around at 
the restored camp. The dens were as good as new, 
strong and safe and well constructed, and a thick 
barrier of thorns stretched across the entrance. But 
there was no sign of any of his Clanmates. 

From the corner of his eye Bramblestar spotted a 
flash of flame, and turned to see Firestar pushing his 
way into the camp. He bounded across to his former 
leader and dipped his head. 

“Firestar!” he meowed. “It’s so good to see you.” 

“It’s good to be here,” Firestar responded. “Thank 
you for returning our Clan to its home.” 

“It hasn’t happened yet,” Bramblestar reminded 
him. 

“No, but it will.” Firestar’s green eyes glowed. 
“You have done well.” 


“Really?” Bramblestar found that hard to believe. 
“Even by fighting ShadowClan’s battle for them?” 

“You did what you thought was right,” Firestar told 
him. 

No, Bramblestar thought. J did what I thought 
you would think was right. 

“Those badgers could have caused trouble for 
ThunderClan,” Firestar went on. 

“I don’t know that for sure,’ Bramblestar 
meowed. “Rowanstar is angry with me.” 

Firestar let out a long sigh. “So few cats 
understand how important it is for us to share dangers 
between all the Clans.” 

Bramblestar was puzzled. How could that be 
reconciled with keeping each Clan safe and 
independent, the way the Clans had lived for season 
upon season? “But each Clan leader is responsible for 
their own Clan, right?” he checked. “It’s not up to us 
to make decisions for other Clans.” 

Firestar fixed him with an intense green gaze. He 
sat down in the middle of the clearing and gestured 
with his tail for Bramblestar to sit beside him. “There’s 
something you need to know,” he began. “When I had 


been leader of ThunderClan for just a few moons, 
Bluestar came to me and told me about a terrible 
mistake that the four Clans had made a long time ago: 
that they allowed a fifth Clan to leave the forest.” 

Bramblestar stared at him in astonishment. “A fifth 
Clan? But there isn’t a fifth Clan!” 

“Once there was,” Firestar continued. “They were 
called SkyClan, and their territory in the old forest lay 
next to ThunderClan’s. Their skill was hunting 
aboveground in the trees, snatching birds from the air. 
They were strong and well respected. But the Twolegs 
began to build more dens, and they destroyed 
SkyClan’s territory to make room for them.” 

Every hair on Bramblestar’s pelt prickled. “Just 
like the Twolegs did to us,” he breathed, “when the old 
forest was cut down and we had to make the Great 
Journey to find a new home by the lake.” 

Firestar nodded. “Exactly like that. SkyClan’s 
leader, Cloudstar, asked the other Clan leaders to 
change the borders of their territories so that they 
would still have somewhere to live. The other leaders 
refused. SkyClan had no choice but to leave the forest 
and travel until they found somewhere else they could 


settle.” 

“What happened to them then?” Bramblestar felt 
like a kit begging the elders for a story. 

“They made their home in a gorge where the 
forest river rises. But there were dangers that they 
never expected, and SkyClan almost died out, until cats 
began to settle in the gorge again, and StarClan sent 
me and Sandstorm to help them form a new SkyClan.” 

“So that’s where you went!” Bramblestar 
exclaimed. “That time you disappeared for moons and 
left Graystripe to lead the Clan.” 

Firestar dipped his head. “That’s right. And it 
wasn’t easy, let me tell you.” 

Bramblestar’s head spun. How had the Clans kept 
this massive secret for so long? “What about SkyClan 
now? Did they survive?” 

“T don’t know,” Firestar admitted. “They have their 
own warrior ancestors, and I can’t see them from my 
StarClan, though Cloudstar once visited me here. But I 
have faith in Leafstar, the cat who became their leader, 
and her deputy, Sharpclaw, and their medicine cat, 
Echosong. And if they follow the warrior code, it will 
protect them.” He paused for a moment, memories 


flickering in his eyes like minnows in a stream. “The 
four leaders who drove SkyClan out realized that they 
had been wrong,’ he meowed. “They came to 
Leafstar and each gave her one of her nine lives. It 
was more than an apology: It was an acknowledgment 
that one Clan cannot survive alone, that we owe the 
others a debt that is greater than we know. And that 
proved to me what I’ve known all along: that the 
safety of each Clan depends on all the others.” 

Bramblestar began to understand why Firestar had 
told him this story, but he didn’t dare to interrupt. 

“Fighting the badgers was your chance to do the 
right thing,” Firestar told him, “to save ShadowClan 
from being driven out of their territory altogether. The 
Clans traveled a long way to find this home. We can’t 
lose it now. It’s not up to any one Clan to protect the 
others; all of us have to fight together to survive.” 

“Like in the Great Battle,” Bramblestar meowed. 

“Exactly!” 

“Tell me more about SkyClan,” Bramblestar went 
on, his pelt pricking with curiosity about these cats he 
had never heard of before. “Did they—?” 

He broke off as the sun began to rise above the 


treetops, spilling warm light into the hollow. Firestar’s 
flame-colored form was already beginning to fade. 

“There is one other cat who knows what happened 
with SkyClan,” he mewed; the words seemed to come 
from an immense distance as the last glimmer of his 
green eyes vanished. “If you have any more questions, 
ask her.” 


Bramblestar woke to find his cats stirrmg around 
him, heading out of the tunnel in their eagerness to 
begin the new day. Firestar’s last words echoed in his 
ears. 

I know which cat he meant. 

Following his Clanmates out of the tunnel, he 
padded over to Squirrelflight, who was starting to 
organize the first patrols. “Don’t put me in a patrol just 
yet,” he meowed. “There's something I have to do 
first.” 

Squirrelflight nodded. “No problem.” 

A paw poked Bramblestar in the side, and he 
turned to see Jessy. “Hey,” she protested. “I thought 
we were going hunting this morning.” 

Bramblestar dipped his head. “I know. But this is 


important. We’ ll go later, okay?” 

Jessy gave him a light flick with her tail, and 
bounded off to join Frankie, Cloudtail, and Millie. 
Bramblestar watched her go, then went to look for 
Sandstorm. He found her sitting in a patch of sunlight 
near the mudpile. Jayfeather had just dropped a spray 
of leaves at her paws. 

“But I’m perfectly capable of joining a patrol,” 
Sandstorm was objecting. “I’m hardly coughing at all.” 

“You’re capable when I say you are,” Jayfeather 
retorted. “Now eat the tansy and get some rest.” 

Sandstorm sighed, rolling her eyes, but she licked 
up the leaves without any more argument. Bramblestar 
padded up as Jayfeather disappeared into the tunnel 
again. 

“Firestar visited me in a dream last night,” he 
announced as he sat down beside the pale ginger she- 
cat. 

Joy glowed in Sandstorm’s green eyes. “That’s 
wonderful!” she exclaimed. “I dream about Firestar all 
the time, but it’s not the same as a real visit.” 

“I know he’s watching over you,” Bramblestar 
assured her. “He sent me to talk to you.” 


“Oh?” Sandstorm’s whiskers twitched. “What 
about?” 

“In my dream, he told me about SkyClan. I wanted 
to know more, and he said that you were the cat I 
should ask.” 

“SkyClan . . . oh, yes.” Sandstorm reached out 
with her forepaws to give herself a good stretch. “That 
was an amazing time! So scary. . . but it was fun, too, 
and what we did was important.” 

“Tell me about it,’ Bramblestar urged her. 

Sandstorm described how the former SkyClan 
leader, Cloudstar, had visited Firestar in a dream and 
given him the task of traveling upriver to discover the 
remains of his Clan. “When we came to the gorge 
where the river rises, it seemed empty at first. But we 
learned that an old cat came to sit on the rocks at 
every full moon to watch the stars and speak to the 
spirits of his ancestors. His name was Sky.” 

“And he was the last surviving cat of SkyClan?” 
Bramblestar asked, fascinated. 

Sandstorm shook her head. “No, but his mother’s 
mother was born into the Clan. She passed down the 
warrior code to her daughter, who passed it down to 


Sky.” 

“And he kept the memories alive . . .” Bramblestar 
murmured. “What happened next?” 

“Firestar thought that all he needed to do was find 
SkyClan, but the old cat Sky didn’t agree. He wanted 
to see SkyClan restored. . . . So that's what we did, 
though it wasn’t as easy as that makes it sound.” 

“Where did you find enough cats?” 

“There were rogues living in the forest around the 
gorge. We had to rescue one she-cat and her kits from 
a Twoleg who was starving them. We scared him out 
of his fur! And there were two young kittypets who 
became our first apprentices: Cherrypaw and 
Sparrowpaw. They were a pawful, and no mistake! 
They took Firestar into the Twolegplace nearby to see 
if any other kittypets wanted to join.” 

“And did they?” Bramblestar asked, surprised. 

“Oh, yes.” Sandstorm’s eyes glimmered with 
amusement. “Echosong, who became the medicine cat 
... She was a kittypet.” 

Bramblestar blinked in surprise. 

“In the end,” Sandstorm went on, “we discovered 
what had destroyed the original SkyClan. There was a 


huge Twoleg den that was full of rats. The rats started 
attacking the new Clan in the gorge, so we had to go 
and fight them.” For a heartbeat her gaze became 
shadowed. “Firestar lost a life there.” 

Bramblestar pressed himself against her side. “It 
was hard for both of you. SkyClan owes you a lot.” 

Sandstorm dipped her head in agreement. “Yes, but 
they repaid us, in a way. Skywatcher—that was the 
warrior name Firestar gave to Sky—died while we 
were there, but before he died, he made a prophecy.” 
Her voice dropped to a whisper. “ There will be three, 
kin of your kin, who will hold the power of the stars in 
their paws.’” 

Bramblestar felt his heart skip a beat. “The 
Prophecy of the Three came from SkyClan!” he 
murmured. “Everything is connected.” 

The two cats shared a few heartbeats of silence, 
until Bramblestar meowed, “Why didn’t Firestar tell all 
the Clans about SkyClan when you came home?” 

“I asked him that once,” Sandstorm replied. “He 
said that the burden of guilt didn’t need to be carried 
on. StarClan had done its best to make amends by 
sending Firestar and me to build a new SkyClan.” 


Gently she added, “There is a time for guilt and shame 
to stop.” 

Bramblestar sighed. “I hope I can stop feeling 
guilty about the badger attack,’ he confided to 
Sandstorm. “I lost Dustpelt and I angered Rowanstar.” 
Unfamiliar emotion surged through him, and more 
words spilled out of him. “I was just trying to do what 
Firestar would have done. He would have rescued the 
kittypets and helped ShadowClan not once, but twice.” 

Sandstorm’s ears flicked up in surprise, and she 
fixed a compelling green gaze on Bramblestar. “That's 
not what you’re supposed to do!” she exclaimed. 
“StarClan knew you would be a good leader in your 
own right. That’s why they led your paws along this 
path. Firestar didn’t appoint you to be his echo, but to 
be yourself. He trusted you to protect ThunderClan, to 
make decisions for them based on your own judgment 
and instincts.” Tucking her paws underneath her, she 
went on, “Tell me honestly, if there was no 
ThunderClan, no Firestar, no expectations, would you 
stil have helped the kittypets? Interfered with 
ShadowClan?” 

Bramblestar thought about how he had made those 


decisions. He had felt compassion for the kittypets, 
unable to abandon them to drown or starve in the 
flood. His bond with Tawnypelt had led him to save her 
Clan. 

He took a deep breath. “Yes, I would.” 

Sandstorm’s eyes narrowed in approval. “You are 
the leader of ThunderClan now, Bramblestar,” she 
mewed. “Not Firestar. Be the leader that you want to 
be. No cat expects anything else.” 





CHAPTER 33 
de 


S 


Repairs to the hollow progressed rapidly in the 
sunny days that followed. The Clan still lived in the 
tunnel, but their hunting and border patrols had to be 
fitted around the task of rebuilding. 

Just before sunhigh, Bramblestar headed for the 
hollow to see how the work was going. He was tired 
after an early hunting patrol, but he shared with all his 
Clanmates the sense of jubilation that their home was 
being restored. As he approached the camp, he spotted 
Squirrelflight in the entrance helping Rosepetal and 
Bumblestripe, who were dragging brambles and 
tendrils of ivy to form a new barrier. She broke off 
when she spotted Bramblestar and padded up to him. 

“It's going well” she mewed, looking exhausted 
but determined. “Come in and see.” 

Bramblestar followed her into the camp. The 
hollow was swarming with cats, and for a moment he 
couldn’t make any sense of all the activity. Then he 
noticed Brackenfur moving from den to den, pausing to 
direct the building work with a great deal of calm 


meowing and waving of his tail He looked confident, 
as if at last he was comfortable alone in the role he 
had once shared with Dustpelt. 

Briarlight was sitting with Jayfeather and Leafpool 
at the mouth of their den, helping the medicine cats to 
sort herbs. Bramblestar realized with satisfaction that 
one of his Clanmates must have carried her down from 
the tunnel. 

Jessy bounded over to Bramblestar, her eyes 
sparkling with triumph. “You have to see the nursery!” 
she announced. 

Lionblaze was scrambling around on the nursery 
roof, patching the holes with tough stems of ivy. 
“Cinderheart!” he called, twisting around precariously 
to beckon his mate with one paw. “It’s nearly finished. 
Our kits will be warm and safe in here!” 

Cinderheart hurried over and stood looking up with 
a warm glow in her blue eyes. “It’s perfect!” she 
purred. 

Inside Bramblestar discovered Daisy with the 
other two kittypets, spreading huge bundles of moss 
over the nursery floor. 

“Minty, make sure there aren’t any thorns in 


there,’ Daisy mewed. “We don’t want Cinderheart’s 
kits to get scratched.” 

“TIl be careful, Daisy,’ Minty responded, drawing 
her claws through the moss and setting aside a huge 
thorn. 

Lionblaze dropped to the ground and stuck his head 
inside the entrance, with Cinderheart peering over his 
shoulder. “It’s great in here,” he meowed. “I can’t wait 
for our kits to be born. PI visit as often as I can.” 

Daisy gave him a sharp flick with her tail. “You'll 
visit if I say you can,” she told him. “Cinderheart and 
her kits will need a lot of rest. We all have to put 
mothers and their kits first.” 

Lionblaze nodded. “Of course, Daisy.” 

Jessy followed Bramblestar out as he left the 
nursery. “Daisy has enough help,” she remarked. “Is 
there anything else I can do?” 

Bramblestar glanced around and spotted the 
apprentices, who were hauling a tangle of bramble 
tendrils up to the warriors’ den. “They could do with 
some extra paws,” he mewed. 

“Im on it!” Jessy responded, bounding across the 
camp toward the young cats. 


Bramblestar watched her go, then went over to 
Squirrelflight, who was struggling with a hazel branch 
outside the elders’ den. “Let me help you with that,” he 
offered. 

Together they began wrestling the branch into 
position. Squirrelflight kept darting swift glances at 
Bramblestar. “I’ve noticed how well you’re getting on 
with Jessy,” she murmured after a few moments. 

Bramblestar’s pelt grew hot with embarrassment 
at the thought of discussing Jessy with Squirrelflight. 
“She’s a nice cat,” he responded; then, trying to sound 
lighthearted, he added, “for a kittypet.” 

“She doesn’t seem like a kittypet now,” 
Squirrelflight mewed. After a pause, she added, “Do 
you think she”Il stay?” She didn’t look at Bramblestar. 
“I mean, if you want her to, that’s fine with me. Not 
that it’s up to me, of course . . .” Her voice trailed off; 
she sounded as awkward as Bramblestar felt. 

Bramblestar blinked. Until now he hadn’t thought 
about what it would be like if Jessy stayed in the Clan 
forever, as a warrior and his mate. Zs that what 1 
want? 

He looked at Squirrelflight, who had gone back to 


struggling with the branch. Behind him, he could hear 
Lionblaze talking to Cinderheart. “How many kits do 
you think we’ll have?” 

Then Jayfeather’s voice, raised in annoyance, 
drifted across the camp. “How many times do I have 
to tell you apprentices? Watch where you’re putting 
your paws when you come into my den. That’s a 
whole bunch of yarrow crushed!” 

My sons are so grown up, so confident and 
talented. How could I have regretted raising them 
for a single moment? Grief surged up inside 
Bramblestar. “I miss Hollyleaf,” he blurted out. 

Squirrelflight let the branch drop. “So do I.” 

She looked so heartbroken, her eyes wide and full 
of sorrow as if the pain had never left, that 
Bramblestar choked on the words he would have liked 
to stay. Instead he rested his head against 
Squirrelflight’s, hoping that the touch would bring her 
comfort. 

Neither of them said anything more about Jessy. 

As the sun reached its height, Cloudtail appeared 
at the entrance to the hollow with Blossomfall, 
Dovewing, and Berrynose. All four cats were loaded 


with prey. 

“Hey, Bramblestar!” Cloudtail dropped his catch in 
the middle of the clearing and waved his tail at his Clan 
leader. “We brought our fresh-kill so we can eat here!” 

“Good idea,” Bramblestar agreed. 

Cheerful yowls rose from his Clanmates as they 
converged hungrily on the pile. Bramblestar chose a 
thrush and settled down to eat. As the noise died down 
while the cats gulped down their fresh-kill, he heard 
Blossomfall and Rosepetal talking together beside him. 

“What’s this I hear, that Bumblestripe and 
Dovewing aren’t mates anymore?” Rosepetal asked. 

Surprised, Bramblestar flicked a glance around the 
clearing and saw that the two warriors were eating on 
opposite sides of the group, about as far away from 
each other as they could get. Both of them looked 
downcast, and kept their gaze firmly fixed on their 
prey. 

“That’s right,” Blossomfall replied to Rosepetal. 
“But I never did think Dovewing was right for my 
brother. She’s always been a bit... . different, hasn’t 
she?” 

Rosepetal murmured agreement. “Pm sure 


Bumblestripe will find another mate soon,” she 
mewed. “He’s so nice.” 

Blossomfall gave her a friendly prod. “PI put in a 
good word for you, if you like!” 

Bramblestar was distracted from the conversation 
as Jessy came to sit beside him and tucked into her 
mouse. He studied her warily, still not sure about what 
their future might be. Squirrelflight’s comments had 
confronted him with something he had been aware of 
for a while. He was finishing his thrush when his 
deputy approached, picking her way through the crowd 
of feeding cats. 

“Hey, Squirrelflight wants you,” Jessy meowed, 
springing to her paws as she gulped down the last of 
her mouse. “PI talk to you later.” Resting her tail on 
Bramblestar’s shoulder for a moment, she headed for 
the nursery. 

Bramblestar noticed that Squirrelflight’s gaze 
followed her, but he said nothing. “Did you want 
something?” he asked. 

“Yes,” Squirrelflight mewed. “I thought we could 
celebrate the return to the hollow with a warrior 
ceremony. Lilypaw fought well against the badgers, 


don’t you think? I know she hasn’t had a formal 
assessment, but she’s more than proved her skills.” 

“She sure has,” Bramblestar agreed. “Let’s do it.” 
Glancing around, he saw that most of the Clan had 
finished eating. He rose to his paws. “Since we’re all 
here,” he began, “I’m going to hold a Clan meeting. 
I’ve got something important to do. Lilypaw, come 
here.” 

The apprentice’s eyes widened with shock and she 
almost tripped over her own paws as she joined 
Bramblestar. The rest of the Clan moved into a ragged 
circle with Bramblestar at its center. 

“Am I in trouble?” Lilypaw whispered. 

Bramblestar shook his head. “Quite the opposite.” 
Raising his voice, he began, “I, Bramblestar, leader of 
ThunderClan, call upon my warrior ancestors to look 
down upon this apprentice. She has trained hard to 
understand the ways of your noble code, and I 
commend her to you as a warrior in her turn.” 

Lilypaw looked astonished as Bramblestar spoke 
the words of the ceremony. Every hair on her pelt 
fluffed out, and she was trembling. A stir of excitement 
ran through her Clanmates as they realized what was 


happening. 

“Lilypaw,” Bramblestar went on, “do you promise 
to uphold the warrior code and to protect and defend 
this Clan, even at the cost of your life?” 

Lilypaw’s jaw’s opened and for a moment 
Bramblestar thought nothing would come out. But her 
voice was clear and confident as she replied, “I do.” 

“Then by the power of StarClan, I give you your 
warrior name. Lilypaw, from this moment you will be 
known as Lilyheart. I give you this name in recognition 
of your courage, and because Seedpaw and Sorreltail 
will live forever in your heart. ThunderClan honors 
your bravery and dedication, and we welcome you as a 
full member of ThunderClan.” He rested his muzzle on 
her head, and Lilyheart licked his shoulder in response. 

“Lilyheart! Lilyheart!” the rest of ThunderClan 
called out in welcome. 

Under cover of the jubilant cries, Lilyheart 
whispered to Bramblestar, “Thank you for my name. 
It’s beautiful.” 

Poppyfrost bounded forward to congratulate her 
former apprentice, while Brackenfur padded up to 
Bramblestar’s side. “Thank you, Bramblestar,’ he 


meowed, his eyes shining with pride as he gazed at his 
daughter. “You don’t know what this means to me.” 

“She deserves it,” Bramblestar meowed. “You 
both deserve it.” 

Before the circle of cats could disperse, Graystripe 
and Sandstorm stepped forward together to stand 
beside Bramblestar. Each of them dipped their head to 
him with great dignity. 

“Bramblestar, we want to ask if we may enter the 
elders’ den when the Clan returns to the hollow,” 
Sandstorm mewed. 

“We feel it’s time to let the younger cats take 
over,” Graystrpe added. “Though we’ll still be 
watching them!” 

Even though he had been expecting this for a 
while, Bramblestar felt a pang of sorrow. Firestar and 
Dustpelt were dead; Graystripe and Sandstorm were 
the last remaining cats of their generation. “Of course 
you may join Purdy,” he agreed. “If you're sure, we 
can hold your ceremony now.” 

Realizng that somethng more was about to 
happen, the Clan fell silent again, Lilyheart, 
Brackenfur, and Poppyfrost withdrawing to stand in 


the circle with their Clanmates. 

“Cats of ThunderClan,’ Graystripe began, 
sounding slightly awkward but determined to have his 
say, “I’m so glad that I came back to find 
ThunderClan. I could never have made the journey 
without Millie, and I was so blessed by StarClan to 
have a second chance to raise kits.” His glance 
traveled around the clearing, resting on each of his 
friends in turn. “I have lost so many cats who were 
precious to me,” he went on, “and not a day goes by 
when I don’t think of Silverstream, Feathertail, and 
Stormfur. But I have no quarrel with StarClan for the 
path they chose for me, and I’m proud of all my kits. 
Blossomfall for her courage and skill in battle; 
Bumblestripe for his loyalty and compassion; and 
Briarlight for her bravery, her humbling spirit, and her 
hopefulness. I shall be watching all of you from the 
elders’ den; you can be sure of that.” 

“I won't be long behind you, Graystripe,” Millie 
purred, giving her mate a loving look. 

Graystripe blinked at her. “I will wait for you, my 
dear.” 

Bramblestar waited for a moment, recalling the 


two cats’ long relationship and the kits they had given 
to ThunderClan. Then he stepped forward and glanced 
from Graystripe to Sandstorm. “Are you ready?” 

“Almost,” Sandstorm mewed. “I just want to say 
that I will continue to serve my Clan and the warrior 
code, even from the elders’ den.” Her green gaze, full 
of love and loyalty, swept around the circle of her 
Clanmates. “I wish Firestar were here at my side,” she 
went on, her voice shaking, “but I know he’s watching 
over me, and over all of us.” With great dignity she 
dipped her head to Bramblestar. “Go ahead.” 

“Sandstorm, Graystripe,” Bramblestar began, “is it 
your wish to give up the role of warrior and go to join 
the elders?” 

There was regret but no uncertainty in 
Sandstorm’s voice. “It is.” 

“It is,’ Graystripe echoed. 

“Your Clan honors you and all the service you have 
given us,” Bramblestar went on. “I call upon StarClan 
to give you many seasons of rest.” He laid his tail 
across Sandstorm’s shoulders, and the ginger she-cat 
bowed her head, then stepped back. When 
Bramblestar had repeated the gesture for Graystripe, 


the two cats padded over to stand beside Purdy. 

“T’m lookin’ forward to company in the elders’ 
den,” the old tom meowed. “We’ll have plenty o” 
stories to tell each other.” 

For a moment Bramblestar thought that he could 
see Firestar and Dustpelt weaving around the two 
new-made elders, the four cats united again. But 
before he could be certain, the image faded. 





CHAPTER 34 
de 


S 


“Uh . . . Bramblestar?” Frankie walked into the 
circle of cats. “Can I ask you something?” 

Bramblestar dipped his head. “Of course.” 

“I want... that is, I’d like to join ThunderClan, 
and stay in the forest forever. If yow’ ll have me,” 
Frankie finished humbly. 

Murmurs of surprise rose from the cats who 
surrounded them, but Bramblestar was pleased to see 
that none of them looked hostile at the idea of 
accepting a kittypet into the Clan. The gray tabby had 
more than proved his loyalty in the battle with the 
badgers, and his willingness to hunt and patrol. 

“We’d be honored to have you,” he responded. 

Frankie’s eyes shone with pride. “Thank you, 
Bramblestar!” 

“Frankie,” Bramblestar went on, “from this 
moment you will be known as Stormpaw, in recognition 
of the storm that brought you here, and as a memorial 
to your brother Benny. Squirrelflight, you will be 
mentor to Stormpaw. I’m sure that you will teach him 


everything he needs to know.” 

Squirrelflight’s green gaze met Bramblestar’s for a 
moment; then she dipped her head and beckoned to 
Stormpaw with her tail. “Touch noses with me,” she 
murmured as he approached her. 

“Stormpaw! Stormpaw!” the cats in the hollow 
yowled. 

As the clamor died away, Minty stepped forward. 
“Er . . . I don’t want to stay here! No offense—you’ve 
all been really kind—but please can I go home now? I 
want to see if my housefolk have come back.” 

“Of course,” Bramblestar meowed with a purr. 
“We’ll take you home. Thank you for everything 
you’ve done.” He glanced at Jessy, but she said 
nothing, and did not meet his gaze. Bramblestar’s pelt 
prickled. There's a question waiting to be asked and 
answered, but neither of us is ready to say it out 
loud. 

Pushing that to the back of his mind, Bramblestar 
turned to Minty. “We’ll take you home now, if you 
want.” 

Minty hesitated. “Please, may I stay one more 
night? I want to finish the nursery, and Purdy said he 


would tell me a story about a blind chicken, and I 
promised to help Leafpool sort some herbs, and. . . 
oh!” Her voice rose into a wail. “T will miss you all so 
much!” she blurted out. 

Millie, who was standing nearby, rested her tail-tip 
on Minty’s shoulder. “We’ll always be here, if you ever 
want to visit,” she meowed. 

“Yes, you’ll always be welcome.” The rest of the 
Clan gathered around Minty, letting out friendly purrs. 

“You have to come see my kits!” Cinderheart 
purred. 

Brightheart nuzzled Minty’s ears. “Pl be glad of 
help gathering herbs, if you feel like a walk in the 
forest some time.” 

Bramblestar watched, blinking in surprise. J never 
thought Minty would end up being so popular. 
These kittypets have done more than adjust to our 
life in the Clan; they have become true Clanmates. 


The trees were outlined against a pale dawn sky as 
Bramblestar emerged from the tunnel and gathered a 
patrol to take Minty home. He chose Millie, who had 
always been especially kind to the little kittypet, and 


Dovewing, who had been part of the patrol that had 
rescued her from her flooded Twoleg nest. 

“Stormpaw, do you want to come?” he asked. 

Stormpaw shook his head. “No, thanks, 
Bramblestar. I don’t want my old housefolk to see me. 
It’s better if they think that Benny and I found a new 
home together,” he finished sadly. 

Cherryfall padded up to him and rested her ginger 
tail on his shoulder. “It’s okay to be sad. If you ever 
want to talk about your brother, I’m always here.” 

Stormpaw bent his head toward hers, and 
Bramblestar caught Squirrelflight’s eye across the 
backs of the two young cats. His deputy looked 
amused and pleased. Perhaps there was more behind 
Stormpaw’s decision to stay than respect for the life of 
a warrior? 

Bramblestar took the lead as his patrol headed 
down the slope. The water level was still much higher 
than the original shoreline, but they could make out the 
familiar shape of the lake. The border stream had 
shrunk back between its banks, so that they easily 
found a place where it was narrow enough for even 
Minty to leap across. 


“I hope we don’t get into trouble with 
ShadowClan,” Minty mewed nervously as her paws 
struck the ground on the ShadowClan side. 

“So do I,” Millie agreed, landing next to her. 
“Rowanstar could still be angry that we joined in the 
battle with the badgers.” 

“There won’t be any trouble,” Bramblestar stated 
firmly. “We’re within three fox-lengths of the water, so 
we’re not trespassing.” 

Sure enough, before they were halfway across the 
territory, a ShadowClan patrol came into view, picking 
their way through pine trees farther up the slope. 
Tigerheart was in the lead, with Stoatfur and Pinenose 
just behind him. When Tigerheart spotted Bramblestar 
and the others he veered toward them, loping briskly 
down until he met the ThunderClan patrol at the 
water’s edge. “What are you doing here?” he 
demanded. 

The other two ShadowClan warriors gave the 
ThunderClan cats a cold stare, without even a dip of 
the head as greeting. Bramblestar could still see their 
scars from the battle against the badgers. 

“We’re taking Minty home,” Bramblestar 


explained. 

“Minty? Oh, yes, the kittypet.” Tigerheart’s glance 
raked across the patrol, coming to rest for a heartbeat 
on Dovewing. The gray she-cat was staring out across 
the lake as if it was more interesting than anything she 
had ever seen before. 

Theres something going on there, Bramblestar 
thought. J wish I knew what it was. I know they went 
on the journey together to find the beavers, but 
that was seasons and seasons ago. 

“Well, I suppose you can pass,” Tigerheart 
meowed, giving Bramblestar a condescending nod. 
“But don’t even think about putting a paw inside our 
territory.” 

“We won't,” Bramblestar responded, doing his best 
to hide his irritation. 

“See you stick to that.” Tigerheart stood aside with 
a wave of his tail, leaving the path clear around the 
water’s edge. “Because ShadowClan will be 
watching.” 

Bramblestar set off again. As he padded along the 
shoreline at the head of his patrol he could still feel the 
gaze of the ShadowClan cats boring into his back. By 


now the sun was rising above the trees, its pale rays 
turning the lake water to glittering silver. Around the 
Thunderpath and the half bridge, the flood was only 
belly-deep. Bramblestar was reminded of the hidden 
tree trunk that had saved him and Jessy from the old 
badger. / hope I never have to do that again! 

He and his cats splashed through the water and 
headed up alongside the Twoleg dens. As they drew 
closer to her home, Minty picked up her pace and took 
the lead. 

“The Twoleg dens are still empty and damaged 
with mud, just like the hollow,’ Millie remarked to 
Bramblestar. “But I expect the Twolegs will repair 
them, just like we’re doing.” 

The doors of some of the dens stood open, with a 
few Twolegs hauling their stuff outside to dry in the 
sun. Bramblestar, Millie, and Dovewing instinctively 
ducked behind a hedge as a pair of them emerged 
close by, but Minty let out a joyful little trill and raced 
forward. 

“T’m back! It’s me!” she yowled. “I survived!” 

The Twolegs stared at her, their jaws gaping, and 
let out sharp cries of surprise at the sight of the little 


black-and-white cat charging toward them. Minty took 
a flying leap into the forepaws of the nearest Twoleg, 
who held her close and pressed its face into her fur. 
For a moment it looked almost like a mother cat curling 
around the body of her kit. 

They’re really glad to see her, Bramblestar 
thought. Just listen to them purring! I never thought 
Twolegs could feel that way. 

Minty looked up into her Twoleg’s face. “I lived 
with wild cats!” she squealed. “I caught mice! And 
Purdy told me lots of stories, and I helped fix the 
nursery, and thrush tastes really good when you get 
past the feathers, and...” 

Bramblestar exchanged an amused glance with 
Dovewing. “I don’t suppose they have any idea what 
she’s meowing about,” he murmured. “Stil, she’s 
happy, and that’s all that matters.” 

Beside him, Millie looked thoughtful as she 
watched the reunion. 

“Are you thinking about your own Twolegs?” 
Dovewing asked her. “You must miss them very 
much.” 

Millie nodded. “I did, but not so much now,” she 


mewed. “Sometimes I dream of them. I wonder if they 
dream of me.” Then she turned away, giving her pelt a 
shake. “Come on, Minty is home now. Let’s go back to 
ours.” 

There was no sign of ShadowClan cats as they 
padded back across the territory on their way home. 
By the time they reached the camp, the sun was 
beginning to dip down behind the tops of the trees. All 
the cats in the patrol were tired and wet through as far 
as their belly fur, their legs and paws caked with mud. 

Squirrelflight and Stormpaw were sitting together 
outside the tunnel. “The warrior code says that the 
Clan must be fed first,’ Squirrelflight was explaining. 
“The elders and the nursing queens eat before any 
other cat. We take care of those who can’t hunt for 
themselves.” 

Stormpaw nodded. “That makes sense.” 

Watching Squirrelflight teaching her apprentice, 
Bramblestar felt something warm well up inside him. 
She's the best deputy a leader could hope for—and 
more than that... 

He was distracted as the other cats in the clearing 
noticed their return and pressed around them. 


“Is everything okay?” 

“Did Minty find her Twolegs?” 

“Was there any trouble with ShadowClan?” 

Mousewhisker pushed his way to the front of the 
crowd, a bundle of dry bracken in his jaws. “Here,” he 
meowed. “Clean yourselves up with this. Honestly, I 
think if I see any more mud, PI turn into a heap of 
earth!” 

While Bramblestar was scraping the worst of the 
mud onto the bracken fronds, he realized that Jessy 
had slipped through the other cats to his side. 

“Would you like to go for a walk while it’s still 
light?” she offered. 

Bramblestar nodded, though his belly began to 
churn with apprehension as they left the camp side by 
side. He knew that he couldn’t put off questions about 
their future any longer. 

They headed for the ridge, trotting silently over the 
soft, new grass. Shadows were gathering under the 
trees, and a light breeze swept down from the heights, 
stirring the cats’ fur. When they reached the summit, 
they found a flat-topped rock where they could sit side 
by side, their pelts barely touching, and watch the sun 


go down in a blazing scarlet sky. 

“I remember going this way to fight Victor and his 
friends,” Jessy meowed. “We certamly taught them a 
lesson! And the battle against the badgers—that was 
so scary! But worth every moment of danger, because 
we helped ShadowClan and protected our own hunting 
grounds.” She paused and looked at him, her amber 
eyes reflecting the orange sky. “Bramblestar, I’ ll never 
regret a moment of the time I spent with your Clan.” 

Bramblestar swallowed. “That sounds as if you’re 
leaving.” 

Jessy rose to her paws. Her gaze was full of 
sadness. “I think you know I have to. If I stay, you— 
you might not follow where your heart truly lies.” 

For a moment Bramblestar was silent. Did she 
really know him so well, this brave, bold, sparkling 
kittypet? He had never meant to hurt her, not for a 
single heartbeat. “I’m sorry. I really am.” He stood 
beside her, twining his tail with hers. Jessy leaned into 
him and they rested their heads together. 

“I could have loved you,” Bramblestar meowed. 

“T know,” Jessy murmured. “But you already love 
Squirrelflight. As you should. She is the mother of your 


kits.” 

Bramblestar opened his jaws to interrupt, but Jessy 
silenced him with a flick of her tail. “I know they 
weren’t born to you,” she went on. “But you are their 
father, just as Squirrelflight is their mother. That is not 
a bond that’s easily broken. Not even washed away in 
a storm!” 

“Will you go home to your housefolk?” 

“I don’t know,” Jessy admitted. “They might not 
come back. Our den was very badly damaged. But PI 
go that way first, and then see where my paws lead 
me.” She raised her head, her eyes suddenly brighter. 
“Living with ThunderClan has given me a taste for 
adventure, and the life of a kittypet might be too tame 
for me!” 

“You would have made a great warrior,” 
Bramblestar told her. 

“Oh, I know I would,” Jessy assured him with a 
gleam in her eyes. 

‘TIl never forget you,” Bramblestar mewed. 

“Nor I you.” 

Bramblestar pressed himself closer against Jessy’s 
side, breathing in her scent for the last time. J wish 


things could have been different, he thought. It's 
hard to believe IIl never see her again. 

Looking over Jessy’s head, he saw the lake turned 
scarlet by the setting sun. He remembered his vision of 
Yellowfang, the blood rising to meet her paws, and 
realized that blood ran deeper than anything else. 

Jessy is right. Whatever I have felt for her, 
whatever might have been, Squirrelflight and 1 
share a bond that cannot be broken. 





CHAPTER 35 
de 


v 


Bramblestar woke to find his Clanmates already 
heading outside. Two sunrises had passed since Jessy 
and Minty left, and the tunnel seemed oddly empty 
without them. He sat up, gave one ear a thorough 
scratch, and followed the others mto the clearing 
outside the tunnel. 

The rest of the cats were crowding around 
Squirrelflight as she sorted out the early patrols. 
“Cloudtail,” she meowed, “I want you to lead the 
WindClan border patrol. Take Lilyheart with you, and . 
. . yes, Ivypool and Snowpaw. And can you take 
Stormpaw, too? It’s time he learned what happens on a 
border patrol, and I have other things to do this 
morning.” 

Cloudtail dipped his head. “No problem.” 

Ivypool beckoned Stormpaw over with a twitch of 
her ears. “You can set the scent marks.” 

Stormpaw looked alarmed. “I don’t know how to 
do that!” 

“Don't worry.” Lilyheart brushed her tail over his 


shoulder. “We’ll show you what to do.” 

“We'll all help.” Snowpaw looked delighted to be 
on patrol with an apprentice who knew less than he 
did. “It's easy!” 

Bramblestar noticed Graystripe and Sandstorm 
standing to one side, looking a little sad as the patrols 
formed up and moved off. He could guess how hard it 
must be for them to adjust to their new life as elders. 
But Sandstorm was already looking plumper now that 
she had the chance to rest, and Bramblestar hadn’t 
heard her coughing for the last day or two. Now she 
and Graystripe settled themselves in a patch of sunlight 
where Purdy was already dozing, and began sharing 
tongues. 

When the last of the patrols had left, Squirrelflight 
padded over to Bramblestar. She hadn’t mentioned 
Jessy at all, except to say that she would be missed, on 
the morning after the brown she-cat had left. 

“Its the night of the full moon,” Squirrelflight 
meowed, sitting beside Bramblestar and wrapping her 
tail around her paws. “Every cat is excited at the 
thought of going to the Gathering. Do you think the 
water is low enough?” 


Bramblestar nodded. “The lake is almost back to 
its normal level. The island will be muddy, but it should 
be dry enough for us to meet.” 

“Good!” Squirrelflight purred. “Who should we 
take with us?” 

Bramblestar blinked. “Sandstorm and Graystripe 
will have to come. And Lilyheart and Stormpaw. PI be 
mentioning them in my report. And either Jayfeather or 
Leafpool: We can let Jayfeather decide which.” 

“Jayfeather will decide, whether we /et him or 
not,” Squirrelflight commented, with a glint of 
amusement in her green eyes. 

“True. What about Cherryfall and Molewhisker?” 
Bramblestar suggested. “They’ve worked so hard on 
rebuilding the camp; they deserve to come.” 

“Good idea,” Squirrelflight agreed. “Brackenfur 
too, then.” 

“Right. And there should be a few more. . . . Give 
me some time to think about it. Oh, and could you tell 
Stormpaw what happens at a Gathering? He’ ll enjoy it 
more if he knows what to expect.” 

“The other Clans will know he used to be a 
kittypet,” Squirrelflight pointed out. 


“Yes,” Bramblestar responded. “But he’s not 
anymore.” 

Squirrelflight’s eyes gleamed. “TIl go let Sandstorm 
and Graystripe know about the Gathering,’ she 
meowed, rising to her paws. 

“Squirrelflight . . .” Bramblestar called as she 
turned away. 

His deputy swung around, an inquiring look in her 
eyes. “Yes?” 

“I just wanted to say . . .” Bramblestar struggled to 
find the right words. “I wanted to thank you for 
everything. For supporting me over the badger battle. 
For welcoming the kittypets I brought back. For—for 
raising three wonderful cats that I’m so proud of.” 

Squirrelflight stepped closer and her scent swept 
over him. “We did it together.” 

“Maybe,” Bramblestar murmured. “I wouldn't 
have wanted to do it with any other cat.” 

Moving as one they stretched their necks forward; 
for a heartbeat their noses touched, and their muzzles 
brushed together. Then Squrrrelflight stepped 
backward, looking ruffled. “I must tell the others about 
the Gathering.” 


“Okay.” Bramblestar blinked at her affectionately 
and flicked her shoulder with his tail. “PI see you 
later.” 


The moon was floating in a clear indigo sky when 
Bramblestar led his cats down toward the lake. In spite 
of the good omen, his belly was churning. He was 
dreading what Rowanstar might say about the battle 
with the badgers. 

He's sure to mention it, to warn the other Clans 
that ThunderClan is interfering once again. 

Squirrelflight, who had been padding along beside 
Jayfeather, quickened her pace until she reached 
Bramblestar’s side. “I know what you’re thinking,” she 
meowed. “You’re worrying about Rowanstar. Ignore 
him,” she added with a sniff. “He couldn’t have fought 
that battle without us. He might learn to be grateful 
eventually, even if he is a ShadowClan cat.” 

Excitement was bubbling up inside the 
ThunderClan cats as they headed for the lakeshore, 
and they darted back and forth with their tails bushed 
up when they saw the debris that the flood had left 
behind it. The pebbles had been completely covered by 


branches and all kinds of things that didn’t belong. 

“Look at all the rubbish that’s been washed up!” 
Amberpaw exclaimed. “There’s Twoleg stuff in there, 
too!” 

“Yes, Amberpaw, we can all see it,’ Spiderleg 
snapped. “So leave it alone!” 

“And dead fish,” Lilyheart added. “Yuck!” 

But as they crossed WindClan territory and drew 
closer to the island, every cat grew quieter. Two 
moons had passed since the last Gathering, a long time 
in the life of the Clans, and so much had happened 
since their last visit to the island. Bramblestar guessed 
that all his warriors were a bit daunted at the thought 
of meeting the other Clans again. 

“I wonder how many cats didn’t survive the storm 
and the flood?” Sandstorm murmured to Graystripe. 

“I don’t know.” Graystripe shook his head sadly. 
“And what about RiverClan? They had to move so far 
away. Will they even be here tonight?” 

To Bramblestar’s relief, the tree-bridge was clear 
of the water, though the waves lapped against it, 
sucking greedily in the darkness. J don t want a repeat 
of walking on that sunken tree trunk! A pang shook 


him as he thought about Jessy. J hope shes safe, 
wherever she is. 

The ThunderClan cats bristled as they crossed the 
bridge with the water gurgling close beneath their 
paws. Stormpaw in particular looked terrified, though 
he kept moving across the slippery, mud-smeared 
trunk. Squirrelflight gave him a word of praise as he 
Jumped down at the other end. 

While Bramblestar was waiting for his turn to 
cross, Onestar and the WindClan cats came up behind 
him. Onestar greeted him with a frosty nod, but did not 
speak. Bramblestar felt his pelt tingling. He was glad 
when he could cross the tree-bridge and head through 
the bushes to the clearing in the center of the island. 
Relief flooded over him as he emerged from the 
bushes and saw Mistystar already there with her 
RiverClan cats near the foot of the Great Oak. Her 
gray-blue fur shimmered in the moonlight and her eyes 
lit up with welcome when she saw Bramblestar. 

“How are you?” he called, trotting over to her. 
“Have you managed to come home?” 

“There’s been a lot of damage to our camp,” 
Mistystar mewed. “But we’re working to rebuild it, 


and some of our warriors are already staying there 
overnight.” She paused, then added sadly, “We lost 
Pebblefoot and Grasspelt in the storm, but the rest of 
our cats are well.” 

Bramblestar brushed his tail along her side. “I 
know how it feels to lose cats,” he mewed. “We lost 
an apprentice, Seedpaw.” 

As the moon rose higher, the RiverClan and 
ThunderClan cats mingled together, exchanging news, 
but Onestar kept the WindClan cats aloof, clustered 
tightly together at one side of the clearing. 

I wonder what his problem is, Bramblestar 
thought. This is supposed to be a time of truce! 

Eventually Onestar raised his voice to be heard 
above the chatter. “It looks like ShadowClan isn’t 
coming. We should begin.” 

Apprehension began to rise up inside Bramblestar. 
Its true: ShadowClan should be here by now. Has 
something bad happened to them? Please, 
StarClan, dont say that the badgers have come 
back! 

Turning toward the Great Oak, Bramblestar 
realized that some of the younger cats had wandered 


off to check the flood damage on the far side of the 
island. He could hear them slipping and clambering 
over the rocks and fallen trees, and their voices rose 
excitedly. 

“There’s a dead fox here. Does any cat want it?” 

“Yuck, no! That’s crow-food!” 

“Stop splashing me! Now I’ve got mud all over my 
pelt.” 

Suddenly a loud screech sounded from the shore. 
Bramblestar recognized Cherryfall’s voice. Every hair 
on his pelt stood on end. 

Then her voice came again in a triumphant yowl. 
“T’ve found the stick!” 

Shocked exclamations rose from the other cats, 
and they pressed around Cherryfall as she stumbled 
into the clearing, dragging a long, smooth stick marked 
with neat scratches. 

Its the ThunderClan memorial stick! A shiver 
went through Bramblestar from ears to tail-tip. The 
stick that Seedpaw died for. 

Jayfeather wriggled his way to the front of the 
throng. His blind eyes blazed with joy as he crouched 
at one end of the stick and dug his claws into it as if he 


thought it was going to escape. Standing beside him, 
Bramblestar ran his paw over the marks, and thought 
about his lost Clanmates. We owe them so much. Yet 
somehow he felt oddly comforted. Finding the stick 
again seemed to promise that their memory would 
never be lost. 

Mistystar peered down at the stick, her blue eyes 
curious. “What is it?” she mewed. “Why is it 
important?” 

Cherryfall explained to her the meaning of the 
marks on the stick. “And this way,” she finished, “we 
never forget the cats who died in the Great Battle.” 

There was a pause; Bramblestar could feel the 
memories weighing on every cat in the clearing. 

It was Onestar who broke the silence. “We 
remember our fallen warriors with a pile of stones at 
the top of the moor, one stone for each cat. One patrol 
goes there every day, to remember and be thankful.” 

Mothwing, the RiverClan medicine cat, stepped 
forward with a glance at Mistystar. “Willowshine and I 
created a circle of ferns in which we can each 
remember our lost Clanmates,” she mewed. “The 
flood damaged them, of course, but they will grow 


again.” 

A somber quiet fell across the clearing again, the 
cats of all three Clans united in grief. 

“And we list the names of the dead at the first owl 
call each night.” 

Bramblestar whirled around. Rowanstar! The 
ShadowClan leader stood at the far side of the clearing 
with his warriors around him. 

They padded forward to stand with the rest of the 
Clans, and for a few heartbeats they all remained silent 
with their heads bowed. Thankful that every Clan was 
there at last, Bramblestar felt their shared emotions 
wreathing around him like powerful scent. We all feel 
it: the sorrow amid our victory over the Dark 
Forest. The Great Battle has saved us all, as well as 
shaping our future. But we paid the highest price 
we could. 

Raising his head, Bramblestar was suddenly 
confused. The clearing was packed with cats. How 
many did Rowanstar bring with him? Then 
Bramblestar saw that these cats were silver-furred 
with starlight, with a frosty glitter at their paws and 
their eyes shining with the icy light of the full moon. 


One by one he felt their gaze rest on him, and he 
recognized them with growing joy. 

The cats who were lost in the Great Battle! They 
are here: Sorreltail and Ferncloud, Hollyleaf and 
Mousefur and Foxleap ... oh, and Firestar! 

Bramblestar gazed around and saw cats from the 
other Clans: Applefur and Cedarheart from 
ShadowClan; Ashfoot and Tornear from WindClan; 
Robinwing and Dapplenose from RiverClan; and many, 
many more. 

As cries of astonishment arose from the living cats, 
Firestar stepped forward and spoke to Bramblestar. 
“There is a way to honor all these cats who gave their 
lives to save the Clans by the lake. Remember 
SkyClan? You have the chance to make sure that it 
never happens again. ...” 

As he finished speaking the starry cats faded 
away, leaving the living cats gaping. Graystripe spoke 
for them all. “Did we really see that?” 

Bramblestar gave his pelt a shake. With an effort 
he bounded across the clearing and leaped up into the 
Great Oak. The other leaders followed him to take 
their place in the branches. 


‘TI begin,” Onestar announced, stepping forward. 
“WindClan has—” 

“Wait,” Bramblestar interrupted him. “I’ve got 
something important to say.” 

Onestar glared at him, but after a moment he gave 
an ill-tempered snort and stepped back to let 
Bramblestar speak. 

“Cats of all Clans,” Bramblestar began, forcing his 
voice to ring out confidently over the assembled cats. 
“We cannot let the fallen go unrecognized, and that 
includes ensuring the future of all four Clans together. 
In times of peace, we stand alone, hunt alone, fight 
with one another over our boundaries. But more than 
that, StarClan has shown us that there must always be 
four Clans beside the lake, and in times of trouble, Clan 
borders are meaningless.” 

He paused, aware of the momentous suggestion he 
was about to make that would change the life of the 
Clans for season upon season. “I wish to create a new 
rule for the warrior code: that each Clan has the right 
to be proud and independent, but in times of trouble 
they must forget their boundaries and fight side by side 
to protect the four. Each Clan must help the others so 


that no Clan will fall.” 

Rowanstar stepped forward to Bramblestar’s side, 
his neck fur bristling. “It's always ThunderClan who 
decides to interfere,” he hissed. “Any cat would think 
Firestar wasn’t dead.” 

Bramblestar raised a paw to silence him, mighty 
and imperious. “Firestar is dead. I am leader of 
ThunderClan now. And I am proud to uphold his 
legacy of preserving all the Clans in the forest. No 
Clan was left behind on the Great Journey to find the 
lake. No Clan was abandoned to fight alone against the 
Dark Forest. No Clan will be allowed to fall now, not if 
the rest of us can protect them.” 

Looking down, Bramblestar saw Squirrelflight 
sitting in her place on the roots of the Great Oak. She 
was gazing up at him, and the love and warmth in her 
eyes sank into the depths of him, supporting him. “The 
strength of many preserves all!” he finished. 

“Yes!” Mistystar’s cry rang out as soon as 
Bramblestar had finished speaking. “We should do as 
Bramblestar says. It’s for the good of every cat.” 

Onestar was working his claws into the bark of the 
branch where he stood. “You don’t leave me much 


choice,” he muttered grudgingly. “Okay, I agree.” 

“Rowanstar?” Bramblestar prompted. His pads 
burned with tension: Would the ShadowClan leader be 
able to put his pride aside and accept a change that 
would help preserve the Clans into the far future? 

“I suppose I’m outvoted,” Rowanstar growled. 
“Let it be so... .” 

Enthusiastic yowls broke out from the cats in the 
clearing below. Listening to them, Bramblestar looked 
up to see the stars glittering more fiercely above his 
head. He wondered if he was imagining things, but it 
seemed to him that they had drawn closer together, 
sending an even brighter light down onto the island. 
With StarClan’s help, the Clans had survived the flood, 
survived badgers, sought out new hunting grounds. The 
warrior code was even stronger than before with this 
new law. This would be Bramblestar’s legacy to all the 
cats who came after him. 

Under StarClan, four Clans will be one, to 
preserve the four. 


EXCLUSIVE MANGA ADVENTURE 


TURN THE PAGE TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS NEXT 
IN AN EXCLUSIVE MANGA ADVENTURE. . . . 





CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ARTBY 


JAMES L. BARRY 


¡pl FO Mi 


| MY NAME IS SQUIRRELFLIGHT. 
Mm DEPUTY OF THUNDERCLAN... 


} a a j 
í > „AND THIS 15 ONE OF 
oe cs 
ST : 


` x > = > 2 
> = Š 
THE STEK OF THE FALLEN 
REPRESENTS THE LOST LIVES 
5. 


a- OF CAN WARRIOR! 
WR 
BUT TODAY, LONBLATES KITS 
BECOME APPRENTICES, AN? THE 
HAPPINESS FAR OUTWEISHS 
THE SADNESS, y 





FROM THIS TWE CLOUDTAL, YOU 
FORWARD, THIS KIT HAVE SHOWN COURAGE 
WEL BE KNOWN AG ANO PERSEVERANCE N 

HOLT. SERVING YOUR 
CLAN... 


„ANO T TRUST THAT 
YOU WILL PASS ON THESE 
QUALITÉS TO YOUR NEW 

INTICE. 


AND THE CEREMONY CONTINJES. 
FERNKIT BECOMES FERNER, AND 
SORRE.KIT BECONES SIRE- PAWN. 


THEMSELVES, THEY'RE SO 
j HAPPY FOR THEIR OTS, 


EVERYONE GROWS GUET 
AGAIN AG BRANBLESTAR 


TORWPRIN, ON PRESSING YOUR 
WARRIOR ASSESSMENT. 





INTY 


THERE'S PLE! 


p 
E 
è 
: 





WELL, T FIGURED 
MUST HAVE 


NEEDED TO SEER 





SO I TELL THEM 
BRAMBLESTAR AND T WILL 
WATCH THEM TRAN. 


ALL RIGHT, NOW THIS 


K 16.4 VERY Basic, VERY 
WEDRTANT MOVE. 





NO. T'M FINE 


GOES TO SHOW THAT ANYONE 

CAN MAKE A MISTAKE. IT'S ALL 

PART OF TRAINING, AND BENG 
A WARRIOR. 


` 


TWE TO ADMIT IT. T'M NOT FINE J 
AND MY SHOULDER REALLY HURTS, 
WHAT 16 WRONG WITH ME? 





Sieg et ern - 1 DONT KNOW, TVE BEEN 
INSISTED MEDICINE DE FEELING UNWELL LATELY. VERY 
E WOULD 100, YT were iis PLACE TIRED, AND MY BONES ACHE 


ae ee 
OMER SECA! Teer 


One sar 
T'O BE HEADED FOR THE NURSERY 
SOON! 





TAKING IN THOSE KITS £5 MY 

OWN WAG THE RIGHT THING TO 

DO. I KNOW THAT LIONBLAZE, 
JAYPEATWER, HOLLYLEAE 


IT WAS AN HONOR 
TO RAISE THEM, STL 
KNOWING E COULD NEVER 
BEAR KITS OF MY OWN. 


TM NOT SURE HOW MUCH TIME 
HAS PASSED WHEN I WAKE AGAN. 


I LOVE THUNDERCLAN. IM SO 
THANKFUL FOR IT... THANKFLE THAT 
WE SURVIVED THE FLOOD. THAT 
WE'RE AS STRONG AS EVER. 





TM WORRIED ABOUT 
YOU. YOU HAVE TO TELL 
ME WHAT'S WRONG. 


I THOUGHT 60. 
YOU HAVEN'T BEEN 
YOURSELF 


BUT TRY NOT TO WORRY.. 
WELL TALK TO JAYFEATHER 
AND LEAFPOO.. 


THAT 15 NOT THE NEWS I BRING. 
1 AM SO SORRY 1 SHOULD HAVE 
TOAD YOU LONG BEFORE THIS 
MOMENT. 


E LIED TO yOu, 
I THOUGHT IT WAS FOR 
THE BEST. YOU HAD TO TAKE 








ENTER THE WORLD OF 


Warriors: Dawn of the Clans 


Discover how the warrior Clans came to be 


Warriors 
Sinister perils threaten the four warrior Clans, Into the midst of this turmoil 


comes Rusty, an ordinary housecat, who may just be the bravest of them all 


Download the 
free Warriors app at 
www.wärtiorcats.com 





Warriors: The New Prophecy 
Follow the next generation of heroic cats as they set off 
on a quest to save the Clans from destruction 


DS BA 


Warriors: Power of Three 
Firestar's grandchildren begin their training as warrior cats. 
Prophecy foretells that they will hold more power than any cats before them. 


WON, 
C 


Warriors: Omen of the Stars vs) 
Which ThunderClan apprentice will complete the prophecy that 


foretells that three Clanmares hold the future of the Clans in their paws? 


All Warriors, Seekers, and Survivors books are available 
as ebooks from HarperCollins. 





Warriors Stories 


Download the separate ebook novellas or read them in two paperback bind apa! 





Warrior Cats Come to Life in Manga! 








SEEKERS 


Three young bears...one destiny. Discover the fate that awaits them on their adventure, 


Seekers: Return to the Wild 
The stakes are higher than ever as the bears 
search for a way home. 


www.seekerbears.com 


HARPER 


An imprint of erben Pte 





SURVIVORS 


The time has come for dogs to rule the wild, 


www.survivorsdogs.com 
HARPER 


A AS 





ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a 
fascination with the ferocity of the natural world. In 
addition to having great respect for nature in all its 
forms, Erin enjoys creating rich mythical explanations 
for animal behavior. She is also the author of the 
bestselling Seekers and Survivors series. 


Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at 
hc.com. 


BOOKS BY ERIN HUNTER 


WARRIORS 


Book One: Into the Wild 
Book Two: Fire and Ice 
Book Three: Forest of Secrets 
Book Four: Rising Storm 
Book Five: A Dangerous Path 
Book Six: The Darkest Hour 








THE NEW PROPHECY 


Book One: Midnight 
Book Two: Moonrise 


Book Three: Dawn 
Book Four: Starlight 


Book Five: Twilight 
Book Six: Sunset 


POWER OF THREE 


Book One: The Sight 
Book Two: Dark River 


Book Three: Outcast 
Book Four: Eclipse 


Book Five: Long Shadows 
Book Six: Sunrise 


OMEN OF THE STARS 


Book One: The Fourth Apprentice 
Book Two: Fading Echoes 
Book Three: Night Whispers 
Book Four: Sign of the Moon 
Book Five: The Forgotten Warrior 
Book Six: The Last Hope 


DAWN OF THE CLANS 


Book One: The Sun Trail 


Book Two: Thunder Rising 
Book Three: The First Battle 


EXPLORE Tbe 


WiRoR 


WORLO 


Warriors Super Edition: Firestar s Quest 
Warriors Super Edition: Bluestar s Prophec 
Warriors Super Edition: SkyClan 5 Destin 
Warriors Super Edition: Crookedstar s Promise 
Warriors Super Edition: Yellowfang s Secret 


Warriors Super Edition: Tallstar s Revenge 
Warriors Field Guide: Secrets of the Clans 
Warriors: Cats of the Clans 
Warriors: Code of the Clans 
Warriors: Battles of the Clans 


Warriors: Enter the Clans 
Warriors: The Ultimate Guide 
Warriors: The Untold Stories 


MANGA 

















The Lost Warrior 
Warrior s Refuge 
Warrior s Return 
The Rise of Scourge 
Tigerstar and Sasha #1: Into the Woods 
Tigerstar and Sasha #2: Escape from the Forest 
Tigerstar and Sasha #3: Return to the Clans 
Ravenpaw s Path #1: Shattered Peace 
Ravenpaws Path #2: A Clan in Need 
Ravenpaw s Path #3: The Heart of a Warrior 
SkyClan and the Stranger #1: The Rescue 
SkyClan and the Stranger #2: Beyond the Code 
SkyClan and the Stranger #3: After the Flood 


NOVELLAS 


Hollyleaf 5 Story 
Mistystar s Omen 
Cloudstar s Journey 
Tigerclaw ï Fury 
Leafpools Wish 


SER 


Book One: The Ouest Begins 
Book Two: Great Bear Lake 
Book Three: Smoke Mountain 
Book Four: The Last Wilderness 
Book Five: Fire in the Sky 
Book Six: Spirits in the Stars 


RETURN TO THE WILD 


Book One: Island of Shadows 
Book Two: The Melting Sea 
Book Three: River of Lost Bears 
Book Four: Forest of Wolves 


MANGA 


Toklo s Story 
Kallik s Adventure 


ORONS 


Book One: The Empty Ci 
Book Two: A Hidden Enem 
Book Three: Darkness Falls 
Book Four: The Broken Path 
Book Five: The Endless Lake 








NOVELLAS 
Alpha s Tale 


CREDITS 


Cover art © 2014 by Wayne McLoughlin 
Series cover design by Megan Stitt 


COPYRIGHT 


WARRIORS SUPER EDITION: 
BRAMBLESTAR’S STORM 
Copyright © 2014 by Working Partners 
Limited 
Series created by Working Partners 
Limited 
Manga text copyright © 2014 by 
Working Partners Limited 
Manga art copyright © 2014 by 
HarperCollins Publishers 
All rights reserved under International 
and Pan-American Copyright 
Conventions. By payment of the 
required fees, you have been granted 
the nonexclusive, nontransferable right 
to access and read the text of this e- 


book on-screen. No part of this text 
may be reproduced, transmitted, 
downloaded, decompiled, reverse- 
engineered, or stored in or introduced 
into any information storage and 
retrieval system, in any form or by any 
means, whether electronic or 
mechanical, now known or hereafter 
invented, without the express written 
permission of HarperCollins e-books. 


www.harpercollinschildrens.com 





Library of Congress Cataloging-in- 
Publication Data 
Hunter, Erin. 

Bramblestar’s storm / Erin Hunter. — First 

edition. 
pages cm. — (Warriors) 

“Warriors Super Edition.” 

Summary: “As the new leader of ThunderClan, 
Bramblestar must prepare to weather a storm the likes 
of which the warrior Clans have never seen—and 
might not survive”— Provided by publisher. 


ISBN 978-0-06-229143-1 (hardback) 
ISBN 978-0-06-229144-8 (library) 
[1. Cats—Fiction. 2. Fantasy. ] I. Title. 


PZ7.H916625Brm 2014 2013047719 
[Fic ]—dc23 CIP 
AC 





EPub Edition © AUGUST 2014 ISBN: 
9780062291462 
Version: 09082014 
14 15 16 17 18 CORRDH 109876543 
21 
e 
FIRST EDITION 


ABOUT THE PUBLISHER 


Australia 

HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 

Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 


www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 

HarperCollins Canada 

2 Bloor Street East — 20th Floor 
Toronto, ON M4W 1A8, Canada 


www.harpercollins.ca 


New Zealand 

HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 

Rosedale 0632 


Auckland, New Zealand 
www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
1 London Bridge Street 
London SE1 9GF, UK 


www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
195 Broadway 

New York, NY 10007 


www.harpercollins.com 


