


* HAWKWING’S . - 
. | JOURNEY 






EXCLUSIVE 
MANGA 

ADVENTURE x 

INSIDE 


ERIN HUNTER 


#1 NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLING AUTHOR 


JARRIORS 


HAWKWING’S 
JOURNEY 


ERIN 
HUNTER 


HARPER 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers 





Contents 


Dedication 
Allegiances 
Maps 


Prologue 
Chapter 1 
Chapter 2 
Chapter 3 
Chapter 4 
Chapter 5 
Chapter 6 
Chapter 7 
Chapter 8 
Chapter 9 
Chapter 10 
Chapter 11 
Chapter 12 
Chapter 13 
Chapter 14 
Chapter 15 


Chapter 16 
Chapter 17 
Chapter 18 
Chapter 19 
Chapter 20 
Chapter 21 
Chapter 22 
Chapter 23 
Chapter 24 
Chapter 25 
Chapter 26 
Chapter 27 
Chapter 28 
iil 29 





lager 31 

Chapter 32 

Chapter 33 

Chapter 34 

Chapter 35 

Exclusive Manga Adventure 

Excerpt from Warriors: A Vision of Shadows #1: 
The Apprentice 5 Quest 





Chapter 1 
Chapter 2 


Back Ads 

About the Author 
Books by Erin Hunter 
Credits 

Copyright 

About the Publisher 


Dedication 


Special thanks to Cherith Baldry 


LEADER 


DEPUTY 


MEDICINE 
CATS 


ALLEGIANCES 


SKYCLAN 


LEAFSTAR—brown-and-cream tabby she-cat with 
amber eyes 


SHARPCLAW—dark ginger tom 
ECHOSONG—-silver tabby she-cat with green eyes 


FRECKLEWISH—mottled light brown tabby she- 
cat with spotted legs 


WARRIORS (toms and she-cats without kits) 


SPARROWPELT—dark brown tabby tom 
CHERRYTAIL—tortoiseshell-and-white she-cat 
WASPWHISKER—gray -and-white tom 
APPRENTICE, DUSKPAW (ginger tabby tom) 


EBONYCLAW—striking black she-cat (day light 
warrior) 


APPRENTICE, HAWKPAW (dark gray tom) 
BILLYSTORM—ginger-and-white tom (former 


day light warrior) 

APPRENTICE, PEBBLEPAW (brown-speckled white 
she-cat) 

HARVEYMOON—white tom (day light warrior) 


MACGYVER—black-and-white tom (day light 
warrior) 


BOUNCEFIRE—ginger tom 


APPRENTICE, BLOSSOMPAW (ginger-and-white 
she-cat) 


TINYCLOUD—small white she-cat 


APPRENTICE, BELLAPAW (pale orange she-cat with 
green eyes) 


SAGENOSE—p ale gray tom 
NETTLESPLASH—pale brown tom 


APPRENTICE, RILEYPAW (pale gray tabby tom 
with dark gray strips and blue eyes) 


RABBITLEAP—brown tom 


APPRENTICE, PARSLEYPAW (dark brown tabby 
tom) 


PLUMWILLOW—dark gray she-cat 

APPRENTICE, CLOUDPAW (white she-cat) 
SANDYNOSE—stocky light brown tom with ginger 
legs 

FIREFERN— ginger she-cat 

HARRYBROOK—gray tom 


QUEENS 


ELDERS 


STORMHEART—ginger-and-gray she-cat 
MISTFEATHER—gray tom with amber eyes 


(she-cats expecting or nursing kits) 


BIRDWING—black she-cat (mother to Curlykit, a 
long-haired gray she-kit; Fidgetkit, a black-and- 
white tom-kit; and Snipkit, a black she-kit with 
white patch on her chest) 


MINTFUR—gray tabby she-cat 
HONEYTAIL—pale ginger she-cat with long fur 


(former warriors and queens, now retired) 
PATCHFOOT—black-and-white tom 


CLOVERTAIL—light brown she-cat with white 
belly and legs 


FALLOWFERN—pale brown she-cat who has lost 
her hearing 


Maps 











ae. 


THE GORGE 
== 























WAREHOUSE 
[disused 


























PROLOGUE 
+ 


Sunlight poured into the gorge, bathing the sand- 
colored rocks in a warm glow. On either side the walls 
plunged down sharply until they reached a narrow 
valley at their foot. In the depths, water cascaded from 
a black hole beneath a pile of boulders, and became a 
stream that wound its way through the gorge until it 
was lost to sight among bushes and trees. A gentle 
breeze carried the enticing scents of prey. 

A powerful tom, his pale gray fur patched with 
white, sat on top of the pile of boulders, gazing 
downstream. A frosty glimmer of starlight clung to his 
pelt, and stars shone in his blue eyes. 

After a while, the stillness of the gorge was broken 
as a brown tabby emerged from a den near the foot of 
the cliff and padded purposefully over to the rocks, 
scrambling up until he could stand beside the gray-and- 
white tom. 

“Brackenheart,” the gray-and-white tom meowed. 
“Have you thought any more about this vision?” 

“I have, Cloudstar,” Brackenheart replied, dipping 


his head. “And I have no idea—” 

He broke off as a third cat appeared at the top of 
the gorge and came bounding down the trail to join the 
other two on top of the boulders. Stars flowed like 
water through his gray pelt and gave an icy glitter to 
his claws. 

Cloudstar rose to his paws; he and Brackenheart 
bowed their heads in profound respect. “Greetings, 
Skystar,” Cloudstar mewed. 

Skystar returned the greeting with a brisk nod. 
“Well?” he asked. “Have you come to a decision?” 

Brackenheart shook his head, while Cloudstar 
looked troubled, replying, “No. What we have seen is 
too terrible. There are no easy answers.” 

“But an answer must be found.” Skystar stood up 
straighter and gave an impatient lash of his tail. “All 
three of us have seen the scourge that looms over 
SkyClan, a danger more dreadful than the heaviest, 
darkest storm cloud. It could black out the sky and put 
an end to the Clan I founded forever. I could not bear 
that.” 

“SkyClan will never end!” Cloudstar’s blue eyes 
glittered fiercely. “We have suffered great losses 


before, only to rise and thrive again. When we were 
driven out of the forest, so many seasons ago, we 
persevered. We found a home in the gorge, and even 
when the rats destroyed and scattered most of the 
Clan, a few cats kept the memory alive until Firestar 
came to restore what had been lost.” 

“But Firestar is dead,” Brackenheart mewed 
somberly. “And his StarClan is far from here. He can 
do nothing for SkyClan now.” 

Skystar looked thoughtful. “Then we must speak to 
SkyClan directly,” he insisted. “They must be warned.” 

“True, Skystar,” Brackenheart responded. “But 
what kind of warning shall we give? What can we tell 
them to do?” 

“We must tell them to fight,’ Cloudstar mewed 
decisively. “They are strong, brave cats, deeply 
committed to one another as a Clan. They will win if 
they believe they can.” 

Brackenheart let out a sigh. “But not even Firestar 
himself could fight this scourge. This battle is 
unwinnable!” 

“Precisely. The time has come for SkyClan to 
leave their comfortable territory,’ Skystar declared. 


“What?” Cloudstar’s eyes stretched wide in 
outrage. “After so many cats struggled to keep it? 
After so many cats died for it? You want them to just 
leave—without putting up a fight?” 

“Everything comes to an end, sooner or later. 
SkyClan has been its own island for too long.” Skystar 
leaned forward, his brilliant blue eyes fixed intently on 
the other cats. “When I founded SkyClan, it was one 
of the five petals of the Blazing Star, and all of the 
Clans thrived because they worked together. SkyClan 
must take a lesson from its history.” 

Cloudstar gave the ancient leader a puzzled look. 
“Then you’re saying that SkyClan is meant to leave 
the gorge?” 

“That’s exactly what I’m saying. Leaving the 
gorge will only be the first paw step on a much longer 
journey.” 

“No!” Cloudstar’s neck fur began to bristle. “My 
Clan and I had to struggle to make our home here 
among the rocks. Firestar risked his life to reunite us 
after we were driven out the first time. And now you 
suggest throwing all that away? Have you got bees in 
your brain? They must fight.” 


Brackenheart nodded in vigorous agreement. “I 
was SkyClan’s last medicine cat before rats drove us 
out of the gorge. After all we went through, how can 
you expect me to stand by and watch as my Clan is 
driven out a second time?” 

Skystar listened impassively to Cloudstar’s heated 
outburst and Brackenheart’s desperate protest. His 
voice was quiet and steady as he replied. “No. Every 
cat knows what our Clan has suffered, but there is a 
time for our claws to grip hard to what we own, and a 
time to let go. The threat SkyClan faces is just the 
beginning. Only by joming with the other Clans can 
they clear the sky.” 

Brackenheart drew in a wondering breath. “All 
five Clans, together again . . .” Then he gave his pelt a 
shake. “But how can this be? Where will SkyClan live, 
if they rejoin the other Clans? There is only so much 
territory. How do we know that the other Clans will 
accept them peacefully? How do we know that the 
cats of SkyClan will want to join the others? They 
have only ever known Firestar, and he is in his own 
StarClan now.” 

“And Sandstorm,” Cloudstar reminded him. 


Skystar nodded. “Yes. And she is a brave cat, but 
her path is dark to me. It is to Firestar’s kin that 
SkyClan must look now. For when fire dies down, 
there are still sparks that remain. And you are right 
that SkyClan’s path will be long and difficult. That is 
why they must start now.” He paused, staring into the 
distance. 

“They must find those sparks, or their future is 
terrible indeed. . . .” 





CHAPTER 1 
+ 


Hawkpaw let out a drowsy purr, enjoying the 
sensation of warm sunlight on his pelt. He lay curled 
up at the base of a rock, his dark gray tail wrapped 
over his paws. His whiskers twitched as he sank 
deeper into sleep, imagining himself stalking prey 
among the bushes at the top of the gorge. 

“Mrrow!” 

Hawkpaw startled awake as a bundle of ginger fur 
landed on top of him and paws prodded him sharply in 
the ribs. He breathed in the familiar scent of his 
littermate Duskpaw. 

“Get off me!” Hawkpaw yowled, pushing 
Duskpaw away as he sat up and shook out his ruffled 
fur. “What’s gotten into you? I was enjoying my nap!” 

“Well, it’s time to wake up, lazybones!” Duskpaw 
meowed. “Cloudpaw and Pebblepaw and I have come 
up with the best plan ever!” 

Still half asleep, Hawkpaw narrowed his eyes in 
annoyance. What is it this time? Duskpaw is always 
bugging me with some amazing plan, and usually 


its, “Hey, we’re going to steal some Twoleg food!” 
Since he was a kit, Duskpaw had loved the taste of 
Twoleg prey, and was often willing to do some very 
silly things to get it. Honestly, Hawkpaw thought, 
twitching his whiskers. 7 think he must have bees in 
his brain. 

“Okay, then,” Hawkpaw murmured, then stretched 
his jaws ina massive yawn. “What’s this great plan?” 

“Pebblepaw saw some Twolegs carrying woven 
twigs to the Twoleg greenplace,” Duskpaw explained, 
bouncing up and down on his paws. His eyes rounded 
with excitement. “And you know what that means, 
right?” 

Hawkpaw gave a weary sigh. J saw this coming. 
“Twoleg food.” 

At the same moment, Duskpaw let out an excited 
squeal. “Twoleg food! It’s been a while since 
Pebblepaw saw them,” he continued. “They must be 
long gone. But their leftovers will still be there!” 

“I think you're going to turn into a Twoleg if you're 
not careful,’ Hawkpaw teased, grinning. “Your fur will 
get thin, except on top of your head it’ll be all puffed 
up and messy, and you'll start walking on your hind 


y 


legs and riding about in monsters. .. .’ 

“Don't be a stupid furball!” Duskpaw protested. 
“Like that would ever happen!” 

“You're so crazy about their food, and it’s not even 
that exciting!” Hawkpaw responded. “Besides, how do 
you plan on getting away without Waspwhisker finding 
out? Not to mention Billystorm and Plumwillow. They 
won't like their apprentices sneaking off without 
permission. Ebonyclaw would rip my pelt off if I was 
idiotic enough to join you.” 

“They won't find out,” Duskpaw mewed with a 
dismissive wave of his tail. “All the warriors have 
stuffed themselves with fresh-kill and now they're 
snoozing at the bottom of the Rockpile—just like you 
were, a moment ago. We're going straight there and 
we'll be right back, before our mentors even wake up 
to miss us.” 

Hawkpaw noticed that his sister Cloudpaw and the 
speckled white she-cat Pebblepaw were standing a 
few tail-lengths away, just out of earshot. Pebblepaw 
was scraping impatiently at the ground, clearly tired of 
waiting for Duskpaw. 

“Get a move on!” she spat. “Let Hawkpaw stay 


here if he’s too much of a scaredy-mouse.” 

Hawkpaw growled deep in his throat at the insult. 
“Like Pd go if she 5 going.” 

“Look, I know you don’t like her,’ Duskpaw 
meowed, lowering his voice and casting a quick glance 
between Hawkpaw and Pebblepaw, “but you should 
get to know her better. You know, the two of you are a 
lot alike. You're both as difficult as a fox in a fit. So 
are you coming or not?” 

Hawkpaw let out an irritated hiss at the thought 
that he was anything like Pebblepaw. She had to be 
the most annoying cat in the whole Clan. She struts 
around like shes so great, when shes just an 
apprentice like the rest of us. “No thanks,” he 
snapped. “Just leave me alone, okay?” 

“Keep your fur on!” Duskpaw protested. “Your 
temper will get you into trouble one day.” 

That made Hawkpaw even more angry—being 
scolded by the brother who spent so much time 
messing around. “No, you’re the one who’ll get into 
trouble, for sneaking out to steal Twoleg food.” 

Duskpaw shrugged, his eyes sparkling with 
mischief. “It’s worth it! Twoleg food is delicious. But 


you can suit yourself. We’re going.” 

“Fine!” he huffed. “Have fun.” And good luck 
explaining when you get back. 

Hawkpaw let his annoyance ebb as he watched his 
brother scuttle off with Pebblepaw and Cloudpaw. He 
yawned, reflecting thankfully that at least his other 
sister, Blossompaw, had the good sense not to get 
involved. Curling up again, he wrapped his tail over his 
nose and closed his eyes. Maybe now I can finish my 
nap in peace. 


Some time later, a stiff breeze rustled the branches 
of the trees at the top of the gorge as Hawkpaw 
followed the paw steps of his mentor, Ebonyclaw, 
through the undergrowth along the SkyClan border. 
The sun was dipping down below the topmost 
branches; Hawkpaw fluffed out his pelt against the 
sudden chill. 

Ebonyclaw’s lithe black figure halted and she 
glanced at Hawkpaw over her shoulder. “Wait here 
while I renew the scent marker,” she instructed him. 

Hawkpaw did as he was told, his ears pricked for 
the sound of prey. He wondered what had happened to 
Duskpaw and the others; they hadn’t returned from 


their expedition by the time he and Ebonyclaw had left 
camp. 

Probably they were so excited by the food that 
they lost track of time. Mouse-brains. 

A secret thrill crept through Hawkpaw at the 
thought of Duskpaw getting into trouble. He's always 
fooling around and bending the rules! I love him, 
but he needs to get serious if he wants to be a 
warrior. 

It didn’t seem all that fair to Hawkpaw that he 
always worked as hard as he possibly could, but 
Duskpaw kept getting away with his stupid behavior. 
Maybe if he has to deal with the elders’ ticks for a 
few days, he’ll decide to make more of an effort. 

When Ebonyclaw returned from setting the scent 
marker she was sniffing the air, a suspicious 
expression on her face. “Can you smell that?” she 
asked. 

Hawkpaw opened his jaws to taste the air, and an 
unfamiliar scent flowed into his mouth. “Great 
StarClan! What is that?” he exclaimed. 

“T don’t know.” 

Hawkpaw blinked in surprise. Z thought 


Ebonyclaw knew everything, even if she is just a 
daylight warrior! “Do you think there’s some new 
kind of animal near the gorge?” he asked, trying not to 
let his voice quiver with the sudden apprehension he 
felt. 

“There could be,” Ebonyclaw replied. “I’ve picked 
up this scent once or twice before, near the place 
where my Twolegs put their rubbish, but this is the first 
time I’ve caught it on our territory.” 

“What are we going to do?” 

Ebonyclaw’s ears twitched. “Nothing, for now. 
You can’t fight a scent. But we’ll report it to Leafstar, 
and tell all the others to be on the lookout for a strange 
animal. You never know—it might not be dangerous.” 

Stinking like that, it cant be good! Hawkpaw 
was drawing in more of the tainted air, trying to 
commit the scent to memory, when he noticed another 
smell, something strange and bitter, that made his nose 
wrinkle. Glancing at Ebonyclaw, he saw that she had 
her ears perked up and her nose stuck in the arr. 

“What's that? Another animal?” he asked. 

Ebonyclaw shook her head. “I think it’s fire, but I 
hope it isn’t.” She sniffed the air again. “It must be 


coming from the Twolegplace. They’re such mouse- 
brains, they always like to start fires to stick their food 
into. We should go check it out to make sure they have 
it under control. Follow me.” 

Anxiety fluttered in Hawkpaw’s belly like a whole 
nestful of birds. Thats where Duskpaw and the 
others went! Will they still be there? Surely they 
would have left by now... right? 

Hawkpaw had never seen fire before, but he had 
heard enough stories from the elders to know that it 
could be a serious threat. “Will it reach the camp?” he 
asked, padding alongside Ebonyclaw as her paws 
turned purposefully toward the Twolegplace. 

“Probably not,” Ebonyclaw reassured him. “The 
Twolegplace is quite a way from the gorge. But the 
scent is quite strong, so it's best to make sure that 
we”ll all be safe.” 

As they emerged from the bushes, Ebonyclaw 
picked up the pace until she and Hawkpaw were 
racing across the stretch of dry grass that separated 
their territory from the Twolegplace. The scent grew 
stronger with every paw step, and Hawkpaw’s flutter 
of fear grew stronger too. 


I really hope Duskpaw has gone back to camp! 

To his surprise, Hawkpaw spotted movement in the 
grass and realized that small creatures—mice and 
shrews—were pelting through the stems toward them, 
away from the source of the smell. One mouse 
practically ran into his paws, then veered away at the 
last moment. 

Hawkpaw’s jaws watered. “Hey, look, 
Ebonyclaw,” he mewed. “Easy prey!” 

“There’ Il be time for hunting later,’ Ebonyclaw told 
him, racing on without a pause. “Right now we have to 
make sure that everything’s safe for our Clan.” 

As they drew close to the Twoleg greenplace, the 
air grew thick with a gray swirl that billowed around 
the two cats. The acrid scent was overwhelming, 
catching Hawkpaw in the throat so that he had to 
cough. 

“Stay back,” Ebonyclaw warned him. 

At the heart of the gray swirl, Hawkpaw could just 
make out a red glow that began to grow as he watched 
it, reaching up into separate licking tongues. He stared 
at the scarlet flames as they spat out gray puffs of air. 
They seemed to be feeding like some greedy animal on 


a kind of Twoleg rock made from flat sticks. 
Hawkpaw had sometimes seen Twolegs sitting on it 
with their kits, eating the weird food Duskpaw was so 
crazy about. Now the fire blazed up, crackling orange 
sparks leaping up into the low-hanging branches of a 
tree. 

Duskpaw, Cloudpaw! he thought, gazing around 
in terror as he looked for his littermates. 

But there was no sign of them. They must have 
left by now, Hawkpaw reminded himself. J wish I 
could leave, too! 

The gray air was making his eyes sting, and his 
lungs burned with every breath he took. “Ebonyclaw, 
can we—” he began. 

Suddenly the gray air swirled again. The wind 
shifted, blowing harder from the Twolegplace. The fire 
surged, and the low-hanging tree branches burst into 
flame. For a few heartbeats they blazed, then with a 
loud crackle the lowest branch fell right next to the 
burning Twoleg rock. 

Ebonyclaw let out a gasp, and pushed Hawkpaw 
back. Every muscle in Hawkpaw’s body tensed. He 
had never heard a warrior sound so terrified before, let 


alone his own mentor. 

But Ebonyclaw’s gasp was instantly drowned out 
by the sound of terrified yowling from beneath the 
Twoleg rock. It was hard to hear over the rushing and 
crackling sounds of the fire, but the yowling sounded 
dreadfully familiar to Hawkpaw. 

“StarClan, no! There are apprentices in there!” 
Ebonyclaw screeched. 

Oh, no! Hawkpaw felt as if his belly was dropping 
out. His littermates were still there—and in grave 
danger. Duskpaw... Cloudpaw! 

“Stay back!” Ebonyclaw snapped, then raced 
toward the fire and smoke, her belly fur brushing the 
grass and her tail streaming out behind her. 

Hawkpaw crouched, staring at her, his claws 
digging hard into the ground. The shrieking came again, 
louder than before, and now he could make out 
separate voices. Duskpaw, Cloudpaw, and 
Pebblepaw are allin there! 

Ignormg Ebonyclaw’s order, Hawkpaw sprang 
forward and hurled himself toward the blaze. “I’m 
coming!” he yowled. 

As the smoke thickened around him, Hawkpaw 


found it hard to see what was going on. The gray 
tendrils stung his eyes and caught him in the throat. 
Coughing, he groped his way forward until he spotted 
Cloudpaw trapped between the burning branch and the 
Twoleg rock. A heartbeat later he managed to make 
out Pebblepaw crouching underneath the strange rock, 
while Duskpaw scrabbled on the ground at the far side 
of the blazing branch. 

Guilt flowed over Hawkpaw, hotter than the 
flames. J wanted Duskpaw to get into trouble—just 
a bit—but not for something like this to happen! 

Then Ebonyclaw appeared through the smoke, 
fighting her way to Cloudpaw’s side. Hawkpaw froze 
for a moment. Do I try to help Duskpaw, or 
Pebblepaw? 

Pebblepaw seemed to be in more danger. Flames 
had burned through parts of the Twoleg rock, and 
pieces were starting to fall off; Pebblepaw cringed 
away from them, letting out a wail of terror. 

Beyond her, Duskpaw was still scrabbling around 
as if he was trying to get to Pebblepaw. He yowled 
something. Hawkpaw couldn’t hear the words through 
the roaring of the fire, but when he saw his brother 


turn his head, he understood. 

He wants me to help Pebblepaw. 

It did look like Pebblepaw was in more danger— 
but Duskpaw was his kin. / wish I could ask 
Ebonyclaw for advice, but shes busy saving 
Cloudpaw! 

Hawkpaw thought he had been standing motionless 
for moons, but it couldn’t have been more than a few 
heartbeats before he flung himself through the flames 
toward Pebblepaw. All his instincts were telling him to 
run for safety in the other direction; burning grass 
scorched his paws and hot sparks landed on his pelt. 
But he kept going until he reached Pebblepaw and 
grabbed her by her scruff. 

“This way, furball!” he growled through a mouthful 
of her fur as he dragged her away from the fire and 
onto a clear patch of grass. 

Ebonyclaw approached as Hawkpaw let 
Pebblepaw flop to the ground, pushing Cloudpaw in 
front of her. 

But wheres Duskpaw? Hawkpaw couldn’t 
understand why his brother hadn’t followed them out 
of the blaze. 


Peering through the smoke, Hawkpaw saw that 
Duskpaw was still where he had been, next to the 
burning branch. But now he was slumped over, 
unmoving. 

A chill of terror gripped Hawkpaw. “Duskpaw!” 
he yowled. 

With Ebonyclaw at his side, Hawkpaw raced back 
through the smoke and flames. When they drew closer, 
Hawkpaw saw that one of his brother’s paws was 
trapped underneath the thicker end of the branch, 
where the fire still hadn’t reached. For a moment he 
felt his heart stop, and he couldn’t take a breath. 

Duskpaw wasnt telling me to save Pebblepaw: 
He was asking me to help him! 

Together Hawkpaw and Ebonyclaw thrust at the 
branch with their forepaws until it rolled off Duskpaw 
in a billowing cloud of sparks. Then Ebonyclaw 
grabbed him by his scruff and dragged him out to 
where they had left Pebblepaw and Cloudpaw. 
Hawkpaw followed, pushing his littermate from behind. 
Duskpaw’s legs were limp and his head lolled; he 
didn’t seem able to help himself. 

Pebblepaw and Cloudpaw still lay stumped on the 


ground, coughing and letting out whimpers of pain. 
Hawkpaw could see that patches of their fur were 
scorched, giving off a strong scent of burning. But to 
his relief, neither of them seemed to have life- 
threatening injuries. 

However, Duskpaw was hardly moving. Now and 
again he would feebly try to lift his head, and let out a 
weak cough, but then he would slip back into 
unconsciousness. Hawkpaw gazed at him in horror, 
and shook his shoulder with one paw. 

“Duskpaw! Duskpaw, wake up,” he begged. 

“What were the three of you doing out here?” 
Ebonyclaw demanded. 

Cloudpaw let out a mournful wail. “Duskpaw said 
we should sneak over here and look for scraps of 
Twoleg food.” 

Hawkpaw couldn't take his eyes off his 
unconscious littermate. And I might have been with 
you—if I hadnt said no. He remembered his earlier 
hope that Duskpaw would get into trouble with a 
shudder of shame. 

Ebonyclaw didn’t seem to notice. She lashed her 
tail at Cloudpaw, clearly frustrated. “If Duskpaw told 


you to jump off the cliff, would you do it?” 

“ÉI know it was our fault too,’ Cloudpaw 
whimpered. “But when we got here, the fire was just 
over there, in that shiny thing.” She pointed with one 
paw. 

“The trash can, yes,” Ebonyclaw meowed. “And 
you didn’t have the sense to go back to camp and 
report it?” 

“It seemed safe enough then.” Pebblepaw 
continued the story. “Duskpaw said that the fire must 
have driven the Twolegs away, because Twolegs are 
scared of everything, but we were brave enough, and 
we shouldn’t let the fire keep us from the best scraps 
of tasty food.” 

“There was stuff under there.” Cloudpaw pointed 
at the Twoleg rock, now collapsing into a smoldering 
heap. “But then the wind shifted, and the Twoleg rock 
caught fire, and then the branch fell and trapped us. 
We never should have listened to Duskpaw!” she 
finished with another miserable wail. 

“You should have thought of that sooner,” 
Ebonyclaw snapped. “It’s too late to feel sorry, and we 
need to get Duskpaw back to camp so Echosong and 


Frecklewish can help him.” She flattened herself on 
the ground beside Duskpaw. “Hawkpaw, help me to 
get him onto my back,” she directed. 

Hawkpaw worked his shoulders under Duskpaw 
and began to lift him onto the black she-cat’s back. 
Duskpaw revived a little and hooked his claws into 
Ebonyclaw’s fur. When he was settled, Ebonyclaw 
staggered to her paws and set off slowly back toward 
camp, with Hawkpaw steadying his brother on one 
side, and Cloudpaw and Pebblepaw limping behind. As 
they left the Twoleg greenplace they heard Twoleg 
monsters screeching in the distance, the sound growing 
closer as the cats trekked across the stretch of grass 
and into the bushes at the top of the gorge. 

Gazing anxiously at his brother, Hawkpaw could 
hardly believe what had happened. “Hang in there, 
Duskpaw ... ,” he whispered. 

But now Duskpaw’s eyes were completely closed, 
and he didn’t respond at all to Hawkpaw’s urging. His 
legs were hanging limply and he had lost his grip on 
Ebonyclaw’s fur. Hawkpaw could barely manage to 
steady him and keep him on the black she-cat’s back. 

Hawkpaw felt as if all his strength had leaked out 


through his paws, and there was a hard knot in his 
belly as if he had swallowed crow-food. He was sick 
with guilt. He couldn’t believe he’d wished that 
Duskpaw would get into trouble. Even worse, he could 
have saved Duskpaw from the fire, but he hadn’t. 

Did I make the wrong choice, saving 
Pebblepaw first? he asked himself. And what if I 
lose Duskpaw because of it? 





CHAPTER 2 
+ 


Helping Ebonyclaw carry Duskpaw down the 
narrow trail into the gorge was one of the hardest 
things Hawkpaw had ever done. He was terrified that 
his brother would slip off Ebonyclaw’s back and 
plummet down onto the rocks below, in spite of the 
black she-cat’s careful paw steps and his own 
desperate efforts to hold Duskpaw still. His heart was 
pounding and his legs trembling by the time they 
reached the bottom. 

Already several cats were clustered at the end of 
the trail, gazing anxiously upward. The smell of smoke 
drifted on the air; Hawkpaw guessed that his 
Clanmates were already aware that something was 
wrong. 

Duskpaw was completely unconscious when 
Ebonyclaw let him slide from her back. Hawkpaw 
couldn’t stop staring into his ginger tabby face, 
desperately searching for some sign of life. He almost 
expected his brother to wake up and bounce to his 
paws, explaining that it had all been a joke. 


Duskpaw is always fooling around... . 

“What happened?” Waspwhisker thrust his way 
through the gathering crowd and gazed down at his 
motionless apprentice, deep concern in his eyes. 

Billystorm, Pebblepaw’s mentor, was hard on his 
paws. “Pebblepaw?” His voice was stern. “Where 
have you been?” 

Pebblepaw’s head was bowed in shame, and it 
was Ebonyclaw who replied. “There’s no time to 
explain now. Some cat fetch Echosong and 
Frecklewish, quickly.” 

Billystorm turned and left, as more cats bounded 
up to see what was happening. Hawkpaw looked 
around for his mother and father; he spotted 
Sandynose and Sagenose, followed almost at once by 
Tinycloud and Firefern, but there was no sign of 
Cherrytail or Sharpclaw. Every cat was quiet, 
exchanging dismayed glances. 

They know this is bad, Hawkpaw thought. Really 
bad. 

Moons seemed to pass before Echosong and 
Frecklewish slipped through the crowd to reach 
Duskpaw’s side. 


“Thank StarClan!” Hawkpaw murmured to 
himself. 

“There’s a fire at the Twoleg greenplace,” 
Ebonyclaw meowed, before either medicine cat could 
ask a question. “There was so much smoke! Duskpaw 
breathed in most of it, because he was the last to be 
saved. We almost lost Pebblepaw, too, but Hawkpaw 
managed to get her out.” 

Echosong gave a brisk nod. “Frecklewish, go and 
get some wet moss, and some comfrey and honey to 
treat the burns,” she ordered. As Frecklewish dashed 
off, she added, “Ebonyclaw, Hawkpaw, lay Duskpaw 
out on his back.” 

It took all of Hawkpaw’s courage to help his 
mentor arrange Duskpaw’s limp body on the ground. 
He could barely look at his brother; he seemed so 
lifeless. 

Instead, he forced himself to look at Echosong, as 
she pounced on Duskpaw and began to press his chest 
rhythmically with her forepaws. From time to time she 
would stop, to breathe into Duskpaw’s mouth from her 
own. Hawkpaw stared at her face, trying to glean 
information from her expression. 


Maybe this was something that looked very bad, 
but was no big deal to an experienced medicine cat. 

But all Hawkpaw could tell from gazing at 
Echosong was that she seemed gravely serious, intent 
on her task. Duskpaw still wasn’t moving. 

“What's happening?” Hawkpaw asked at last, 
unable to stifle the agonized question. 

Ebonyclaw touched his shoulder with her tail-tip. 
“Echosong is trying to restart Duskpaw’s breathing and 
his heart,” she explained. 

Which means his breathing and his heart have 
stopped, Hawkpaw realized. He felt again as though a 
tough piece of crow-food was lodged in his belly, and 
he was about to vomit it up. 

Echosong went on pushing at Duskpaw’s chest, 
while Hawkpaw watched, barely daring to breathe. 
Finally, after what seemed like moons, the medicine cat 
stopped and stepped back, shaking her head. Duskpaw 
still lay motionless. 

“You can’t give up!” Hawkpaw cried. “What are 
you doing? You have to save him!” 

He was aware of all the other cats who were 
gathered around, staring at him, but no cat spoke. 


Hawkpaw felt his heart tearing apart as if a badger 
were ripping it with powerful claws. 

He let out a mournful wail, and behind him another 
cat joined in. Turning, Hawkpaw saw his mother, 
Cherrytail, along with his father, Sharpclaw, pressing 
forward into the circle of cats who surrounded him. 

Cherrytail rushed forward and flung herself to the 
ground beside Duskpaw, burying her nose in his fur. A 
couple of tail-lengths away, Pebblepaw and Cloudpaw 
were lying on the grass, moaning miserably. Hawkpaw 
guessed they were beginning to feel the effects of their 
burns, but they could barely open their eyes. Clearly 
they weren’t aware of what was going on around 
them. 

They don t know yet that Duskpaw is dead! 

Sharpclaw stood over his son’s body, stony and 
silent. Then briefly Hawkpaw felt his father’s gaze 
rest on him. But before either cat could speak, 
Billystorm reappeared with the Clan leader, Leafstar. 
They joined Sharpclaw and Ebonyclaw, and all four 
cats conferred quietly together. 

Hawkpaw crept up to his mother and pressed 
himself closely against her side. He couldn’t find any 


words to comfort her, but he wrapped his tail around 
her shoulders. 

Cherrytail didn’t respond, her muzzle still buried in 
her dead son’s fur. Hawkpaw didn’t blame her for not 
letting him console her. He couldn’t console himself. / 
cant tell her it'll be okay. Nothing will ever be 
okay again. 

By now, Frecklewish had returned with wet moss 
and the healing honey and comfrey. Echosong joined 
her, and the two medicine cats began to dress 
Cloudpaw’s and Pebblepaw’s injuries. After a few 
moments, Frecklewish padded over to Hawkpaw with 
a bundle of dripping moss in her jaws. 

“You have a bad burn on your back,” she mewed, 
setting down the moss. “Keep still and PI dress it.” 

Hawkpaw turned to her with the beginnings of a 
snarl. He hadn’t realized that he had been hurt; he still 
couldn’t feel it. All the pain he felt was in his heart. 

‘Tm okay,” he meowed to Frecklewish. “Leave 
me alone.” 

“No, you’re not okay,” Frecklewish persisted. “You 
need to let me—” 

Hawkpaw sprang to his paws. “I said, leave me 


alone!” he growled with a lash of his tail. 

At that, Frecklewish backed off, turning to see to 
Ebonyclaw’s wounds instead. Echosong was still 
tending to Cloudpaw and Pebblepaw. Pebblepaw’s 
parents, Sparrowpelt and Tinycloud, along with her 
littermate Parsleypaw, had settled down beside her, 
and were trying to comfort her. 

Hawkpaw turned back to his mother to see that 
Sharpclaw had joined her, and was gently licking her 
ears. His green eyes were full of sorrow as he pressed 
himself against his mate’s side. 

Hawkpaw stood alone, staring at his brother’s 
lifeless body. 

At last Cherrytail rose to her paws and padded 
over to Hawkpaw, leaning against him. “Ebonyclaw 
told us what happened,” she murmured. “Pm glad that 
you’re okay. I know you did everything you could to 
save Duskpaw. It’s not your fault that he’s dead.” 

“But I—’ Hawkpaw tried to interrupt, knowing 
very well that it was his fault. 

“You're a hero for saving Pebblepaw,” his mother 
assured him. “It was very brave of you to rush into 
that fire.” 


Hawkpaw couldn’t feel any sense of pride at his 
mother’s words. And when he looked up at his father 
and saw Sharpclaw’s face so full of grief, guilt rushed 
over him again so strongly that he could hardly stay on 
his paws. 

Pain had begun to stab into Hawkpaw from the 
wound on his back, and he wished that he hadn’t told 
Frecklewish to go away. 

But then, maybe I deserve this pain. 

“Hawkpaw!” The voice was Echosong’s as she 
padded toward him. “Come back with me to the 
medicine cat den. You need to rest, and to let me see 
to that wound on your back.” 

Hawkpaw opened his jaws, but Echosong gave 
him no chance to protest. Though she was usually very 
calm, he knew that she put up with no nonsense from 
any cat. “You'll do as you're told,” she meowed. 
“You’re just an apprentice, and I’m your medicine cat. 
When I tell you to come with me, you come.” 

Too exhausted and heartsick to argue, Hawkpaw 
bowed his head and followed her. 

Inside the medicine cat den, Pebblepaw and 
Cloudpaw were already stretched out asleep in nests 


of thick moss. Their chests rose and fell rhythmically 
as they breathed. 

“How are they?” Hawkpaw asked, angling his 
ears toward the two she-cats. 

“They're comfortable,” Echosong replied. “They’ll 
be okay—their burns aren’t as bad as I thought at first. 
In a few days they’ ll be up and about again.” 

Hawkpaw’s relief at hearing Echosong’s 
reassurance was mingled with even more guilt. 
Knowing that Pebblepaw wasn’t badly hurt reminded 
him of what he couldn’t stop thinking. What if I had 
gone to save Duskpaw first? Maybe Pebblepaw's 
injuries would have been a bit worse, but Duskpaw 
would still be alive! 

After a moment, Hawkpaw became aware that 
Echosong was watching him, her green eyes full of 
understanding, as if she could read his mind. Then she 
turned and took a poppy seed from the rock shelf 
where she stored her herbs. 

“Eat this,’ she mewed, setting it in front of 
Hawkpaw. “It will calm you down. And you have to let 
me dress the burn on your back.” 

Hawkpaw wanted to give in. The wound felt small, 


but it hurt worse than anything he had felt in his life, a 
clawing pain that made him feel sick. 

No! he decided. J don t deserve to feel better! 

He began to back away from Echosong, but his 
body was giving way at last from his injuries and the 
smoke he had breathed in. He felt his legs buckle and 
a cloud seemed to swirl around him, blacker than the 
smoke. As he began to slide into unconsciousness he 
felt Echosong’s gentle paws spread something soothing 
on his back. 

The medicine cat’s voice pulsed in his ears, saying 
something about a prophecy. But Hawkpaw couldn’t 
make out the words, and in a moment the sound was 
swamped in his own desperate cry. 

“T should have saved him first!” 

His voice echoed in his own ears as he finally 
drifted into a painful, fitful sleep. 





CHAPTER 3 
+ 


Hawkpaw scrambled to the top of the gorge and 
slipped into the long grass. The sun had cleared the 
tops of the trees, but shadows still lay among the rocks 
and in the undergrowth, and no cat had noticed him 
leaving the camp. 

Several days had passed since the fire. The scent 
of smoke had faded from Hawkpaw’s fur, and he 
could hardly feel the pain of his burn anymore. The 
vigil for Duskpaw was over. 

But the tightness in Hawkpaw’s chest hadn’t 
eased. He couldn't forget how he had failed to save 
his brother. Leafstar will make me a warrior today, 
he thought. J should be excited, but I’m not. I feel as 
if nothing good will ever happen again. His heart 
was so heavy he could barely carry it. 

Hawkpaw slid through the bushes until he reached 
the foot of the tree where Duskpaw had been buried. 
As he stood over the mound of earth, a wave of guilt 
and sorrow swept over him. 

“You shouldn’t be there, beneath the dirt,” he 


mewed aloud. He remembered how lively and 
mischievous his brother had been, and now he was 
lying still and silent, with soil clotting in his ginger fur. 
“You should be here with me . . . about to become a 
warrior!” 

In the days since Duskpaw died, every cat had 
kept on telling him how brave he had been to rescue 
Pebblepaw. But Hawkpaw didn’t want to hear that, 
because it only reminded him of how he hadn’t 
rescued his brother. Not in time, anyway. 

Hawkpaw stood beside his brother’s grave, his 
head bowed, until he heard Leafstar’s voice rising 
from the gorge, faint with the distance but still ringing 
out clearly. 

“Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey 
join here beneath the Rockpile for a Clan meeting!” 

“Good-bye, Duskpaw,” Hawkpaw murmured. “T’ll 
never forget you. And PI never forget that I could 
have saved you. I’m so sorry.” 

Then he turned and headed back to the gorge. 

By the time Hawkpaw had clambered down the 
trail the rest of his Clan had assembled in front of the 
Rockpile, beside the water that cascaded endlessly out 


of the black hole beneath the boulders. Leafstar stood 
on top of the rocks, with her deputy, Sharpclaw, beside 
her. Blossompaw and Cloudpaw emerged to stand at 
the front of the crowd of cats, their expressions a 
mixture of excitement and nervousness. Their mentors, 
Bouncefire and Plumwillow, followed and halted just 
behind them, and as Hawkwing padded across the 
sandy floor of the camp to join them, Ebonyclaw 
slipped into her place with the others. 

“Cats of SkyClan, today we have gathered 
together for one of the most important events in the life 
of a Clan,” Leafstar began, her head raised proudly. 
“The making of new warriors. Plumwillow, Bouncefire, 
Ebonyclaw, have your apprentices learned the skills of 
a warrior? And do they understand the importance of 
the warrior code in the life of a Clan?” 

“Cloudpaw has worked hard to understand all 
that,” Plumwillow responded. 

Bouncefire gave a brisk nod. “So has 
Blossompaw.” 

“And Hawkpaw,” Ebonyclaw added. 

Hawkpaw’s heart lurched. Yes, I worked hard, 
but what good was that to Duskpaw? I dont 


deserve this! 

Leafstar dipped her head approvingly and leaped 
down from the Rockpile to stand in front of the three 
apprentices. Beckoning with her tail, she summoned 
Cloudpaw to her. 

Cloudpaw stepped forward shakily. Hawkpaw 
knew that though she was recovering well from her 
injuries, she still hadn’t built up all her strength, and it 
was hard for her to stand for long. He forced himself 
to push aside his grief for Duskpaw, knowing that 
Cloudpaw was grieving for their littermate too, and to 
focus on what was happening. 

This is one of the most important moments of 
Cloudpaw 5 life. I don t want to miss it. 

Standing over Cloudpaw, Leafstar repeated the 
words that Clan leaders had used for season upon 
season, every time an apprentice was made into a 
warrior, since the first Clans were formed. 

“I, Leafstar, leader of SkyClan, call upon my 
warrior ancestors to look down on this apprentice. She 
has trained hard to understand the ways of your noble 
code, and I commend her to you as a warrior in her 
turn.” Turning to Cloudpaw, meeting her gaze directly, 


she continued, “Cloudpaw, do you promise to uphold 
the warrior code and to protect and defend this Clan, 
even at the cost of your life?” 

Hawkpaw’s heart lurched again as he heard the 
phrase “at the cost of your life.” Duskpaw never got 
the chance to take this oath, he reflected. He never 
got the honor of losing his life to protect his Clan. 
Instead he lost it trying to get a few scraps of 
Twoleg food. Somehow, that makes it worse... and 
Cloudpaw must be thinking the same thing. 

Cloudpaw looked up at her Clan leader, pausing for 
a moment. Then she spoke, and her voice was fervent 
as she replied, “I do.” 

“Then by the powers of StarClan,” Leafstar went 
on, “I give you your warrior name. Cloudpaw, from this 
moment you will be known as Cloudmist. StarClan 
honors your courage and your resilience, and we 
welcome you as a full warrior of SkyClan.” 

Leafstar rested her muzzle on the top of 
Cloudmist’s head, and Cloudmist licked her shoulder in 
response. 

“Cloudmist! Cloudmist!” the SkyClan cats yowled, 
greeting the warrior with her new name. 


Leafstar waited for the noise to die down, then 
touched Cloudmist’s shoulder with the tip of her tail. 
“Because of your injuries,’ she meowed, “you need 
not sit vigil tonight. You still belong in the medicine cat 
den, until you have finished recovering.” 

As every cat murmured agreement, Cloudmist 
dipped her head and moved back to sit with her 
mother, Cherrytail, who gave her ear a proud lick. 

Next, Leafstar beckoned Blossompaw to stand in 
front of her. Hawkpaw listened as the ceremony was 
repeated and she was given the name of 
Blossomheart. 

“StarClan honors your courage and fighting skill,” 
Leafstar finished, “and we welcome you as a full 
warrior of SkyClan.” 

“Blossomheart! Blossomheart!” 

Looking proud and happy, Blossomheart licked her 
Clan leader’s shoulder, and withdrew to stand with her 
Clanmates. 

Nervousness tingled through Hawkpaw, briefly 
overcoming even his sorrow for Duskpaw, as he 
realized that now it was his turn. It wasn’t only 
because every cat’s gaze would be on him as he went 


through the ceremony. But he was suddenly aware 
that a massive change was hovering over his life, like 
an eagle about to swoop on its prey. He wasn’t a kit 
anymore, and the prospect of taking his place in his 
Clan as a full warrior was as overwhelming as if the 
cascade of water from beneath the Rockpile had 
caught him and swept him away. 

I wish Duskpaw could see this, he thought. He 
always had a joke to make. I wonder what he 
would say if he were here now. 

But Hawkpaw couldn't begin to imagine that. 
Because Duskpaw wasn t there, he was under a pile 
of earth. He’ll never be here again. Hawkpaw knew 
that being a warrior wouldn't be any fun without his 
littermate. 

Hawkpaw padded forward to stand in front of 
Leafstar. She greeted him with a dip of her head, and 
called on StarClan to look down on him. Then she 
turned and asked him to take the oath. 

“Hawkpaw, do you promise to uphold the warrior 
code and to protect and defend this Clan, even at the 
cost of your life?” 

Everything that was in Hawkpaw—his guilt and 


grief for his brother’s death, his determination to honor 
his memory by becoming the best warrior that he could 
—surged into his voice as he replied, “I do.” 

“Then by the powers of StarClan,’ Leafstar 
continued, “I give you your warrior name. Hawkpaw, 
from this moment you will be known as Hawkwing. 
StarClan honors your courage and your bravery, and 
we welcome you as a full warrior of SkyClan.” 

Courage and bravery? Hawkwing thought. 
Arent they sort of the same thing? He wondered 
whether Leafstar thought that there was only one good 
thing about him. And am I really even that brave? 

As the Clan acclaimed him by his new name, 
Hawkwing felt his pelt prickle under some cat’s gaze 
and spotted Sharpclaw staring at him. Ever since 
Duskpaw’s death, Sharpclaw had been cold, and 
though he had never said as much, Hawkwing knew 
that his father blamed him just as he blamed himself. 
He raised his head to look directly at Sharpclaw, and 
knew that he was thinking of Duskpaw too: Duskpaw, 
who would never have another name, who would 
never be anything but dead. 

Cherrytail padded over to the three new warriors, 


nuzzling each of them in turn. “Congratulations,” she 
meowed. “I’m so proud of you.” 

But Hawkpaw felt a fresh pang of pain to see the 
sadness in his mother’s eyes. And when Sharpclaw 
leaped down from the Rockpile to join them, he stood 
by silently, and scarcely looked at Hawkwing. 

“Hey, Hawkwing!” 

At the sound of his name, Hawkwing felt a tiny 
flicker of pride. It was the first time any cat had really 
used the new name. Then he turned, and his heart 
grew cold as he saw that the cat speaking was 
Pebblepaw. 

Since the fire, Hawkwing had barely spoken to her. 
He could hardly stand to look at her. Shes always so 
cocky and arrogant and pleased with herself. . . . 

Then he realized that she seemed different now 
from how she had been before the fire. Since then, 
she hasnt made a single snarky remark to me. 

“I want to thank you for rescuing me,” she 
meowed, a look of genuine gratitude in her eyes. “T 
was trapped, and you saved my life. What Leafstar 
said about you is true. You really are brave and 
courageous. I’m so happy to be alive, and it’s all 


because of you.” 

Hawkwing stared at her, unsure how to respond. 
He noticed that she still had a poultice of honey and 
comfrey on one of her paws, but apart from that she 
looked as strong and healthy as ever. Shes doing 
much better than Cloudmist. 

Somehow the realization made anger throb through 
Hawkwing from ears to tail-tip. He tried to choke out, 
“You’re welcome,” because he knew that was what 
he was supposed to say. But his throat felt as if it was 
full of ash, and his anger rose until he felt it must burst 
out of him. 

How dare she stand there looking so healthy 
and happy, when my brother is dead? 

Hawkwing didn’t feel proud of his warrior name 
anymore. He didn’t even feel sad about Duskpaw. 
Everything within him had been overwhelmed by his 
fury. 

“I wish I hadn’t saved you!” he blurted out. “I 
wish I’d gone for my brother first. Then maybe he’d 
still be alive!” 

The gratitude in Pebblepaw’s face drained away, 
and her eyes widened in dismay. For a moment she 


looked crushed. Then her gaze hardened as she stared 
at Hawkwing, and she shook her head. Without 
another word she spun around and stalked away. 





CHAPTER 4 
+ 


The dawn patrol had left some time before, and the 
red glow in the sky told Hawkwing that the sun had 
risen, though its rays had not yet cleared the top of the 
gorge. Shivering, he shook out his pelt and rose to his 
paws to arch his back in a long stretch. The night of 
his vigil was almost over. 

His sister Blossomheart, a few tail-lengths away, 
had started to groom herself, licking one paw and 
passing it over her face. After a moment she paused, 
and parted her jaws in a massive yawn. 

“T could sleep for a moon!” she whispered. 

New warriors guarding the camp were not 
supposed to speak to each other, but on the night 
before, when they started their vigil, Hawkwing had 
been unable to resist murmuring a few words into his 
sister’s ear. 

“I miss Duskpaw so much. I wish he could be 
keeping vigil with us.” 

“I miss him too,” Blossomheart had responded. 
“He should be here.” 


After that, there was nothing to do but keep watch 
for invaders. And since no invaders appeared, 
Hawkwing had the whole of the night to sit and think. 

Now, as the red sun peeked over the rim of the 
gorge, he was beginning to feel guilty about the way he 
had treated Pebblepaw. The thought of her still filled 
him with despair and anger, but now he began to 
wonder if it was unfair to blame her for the decision 
he had made and the way he felt now. It was my 
choice, he told himself. My responsibility. Even so, 
his guilt over exploding at her was only one drop in the 
vast pool of guilt that was his heart. 

As the whole circle of the sun appeared above the 
cliff, warriors began to emerge from their den, 
stretching before making their slow way down the 
trails. Leafstar appeared from her den and beckoned 
some of her cats around her, speaking quickly. 

I wonder what all thats about, Hawkwing 
thought drowsily. 

A moment later the group dispersed, the warriors 
heading more purposefully to the bottom of the gorge. 
Sandynose broke from the group and walked up to 
Hawkwing and Blossomheart. 


“Your vigil is over” the light brown tom 
announced. “Come and join the others by the Rockpile. 
Leafstar is calling a Clan meeting.” 

Another one? Hawkwing was puzzled. Why? We 
all just met yesterday for the warrior ceremony. 

The rest of the Clan began to gather around as 
Leafstar leaped up to the top of the Rockpile. She was 
followed by Sharpclaw, and also, Hawkwing noticed 
with a prickle of curiosity, by Echosong the medicine 
cat. 

“Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey 
join here beneath the Rockpile for a Clan meeting!” 
Leafstar yowled. 

One or two remaining warriors stuck their heads 
out of their den, then hurried down the trail to join their 
Clanmates. Harveymoon, Macgyver, and Ebonyclaw, 
the daylight warriors, appeared at the top of the cliff 
and leaped from rock to rock to gather with the others. 

“Pm glad we left early!” Macgyver panted as he 
raced past Hawkwing and Blossomheart. “We might 
have missed this!” 

Birdwing appeared at the entrance to the nursery 
with Mintfur and Honeytail, all three she-cats looking 


down at their leader on the Rockpile. Birdwing’s kits 
frisked around her paws, sometimes getting perilously 
close to the edge of the trail, until their mother 
gathered them closer with a sweep of her tail. 

Pebblepaw and Parsleypaw poked their heads 
curiously out of the apprentices’ den, then bounded 
down to the bottom of the gorge and found a place to 
sit close to the edge of the river. 

Finally the dawn patrol—Tinycloud, Sparrowpelt, 
and Bellapaw—returned, appearing at the far side of 
the gorge and making their way down into the crowd 
of cats. 

When all the Clan was assembled, Leafstar began 
to speak, her amber gaze traveling over her cats; 
Hawkwing thought that he could detect trouble in her 
eyes, and his pads pricked with apprehension. 

“Echosong received a prophecy from StarClan a 
few sunrises ago,” the brown-and-cream-colored she- 
cat meowed. “It will affect the whole future of our 
Clan. I have thought deeply about this, and I feel that it 
is time to share her vision with you.” She took a step 
back and waved her tail as a sign for Echosong to 
speak. 


The silver tabby medicine cat hesitated, her gaze 
seeming fixed on something far away. Then she gave 
her pelt a brisk shake. 

“A few days ago I went to the Whispering Cave, 
to speak with the spirits of our warrior ancestors,” she 
began. “A pale gray tom appeared to me in a dream. I 
had never seen him before, but he told me that his 
name was Skystar, and he was the ancient founder of 
our Clan.” 

Hawkwing caught his breath. How many seasons 
must have passed since SkyClan first came to be, and 
yet a Clan leader could still appear out of the far past 
to speak to their medicine cat! 

“Skystar told me, ‘The fire has burned out, but to 
dispel the darkness you must find the spark that 
remains,” Echosong meowed. 

“And what does that mean?” Sharpclaw asked 
with an irritated twitch of his tail. 

“I believe that ‘the fire that has burned out’ must 
refer to Firestar, the great leader of ThunderClan,” 
Echosong responded. 

Firestar, who restored SkyClan after we were 
scattered and almost destroyed! Hawkwing thought, 


his wonder growing. Firestar who was Ravenpaw’s 
friend. Every kit knows that story! 

The concern in Leafstar’s expression grew deeper. 
“I don’t want to believe that Firestar is dead . . .” she 
murmured. 

Echosong dipped her head sadly. “I don’t see what 
else Skystar’s words could mean,” she continued. 
“And if that’s true, then ‘the spark that remains’ could 
well be Firestar’s kin in ThunderClan. That must mean 
that we’re being told to seek out ThunderClan, and 
perhaps the other Clans, too. Perhaps it’s time for 
SkyClan to go home. .. .” 

“Really?” Sharpclaw lashed his tail, Hawkwing 
could see how much he hated Echosong's suggestion. 
“And just how do you suggest we do that? We know 
that the Clans have moved away from where they 
lived when Firestar came to us. How are we supposed 
to find them now?” 

Echosong remained calm in the face of the 
deputy’s objection. “I doubt StarClan would send us on 
a journey we could not complete,’ she mewed. “We 
can seek out Barley, the farm cat who was 
Ravenpaw’s friend, and ask him if he knows where the 


Clans’ camps are now.” 

“That’s exactly what we should do!” Bellapaw 
called out from where she sat at the foot of the 
Rockpile. 

“Barley will be glad to help,” her brother Rileypaw 
agreed. 

They’re Barley’ kin, Hawkwing thought. They 
know him better than any cat. But even if he can 
help us, is this really what we’re being asked to 
do? 

Silence fell among the Clan, the cats exchanging 
glances of mingled confusion and dismay. Hawkwing 
felt as bewildered as his Clanmates. StarClan cant 
possibly mean to send us wandering away from 
here. The gorge is our home. Why would we want to 
leave it? 

Leafstar had stepped forward again and was about 
to speak when the silence was broken by Sagenose. 

“This is all very well”? he declared, “but surely 
there is a simpler answer. This prophecy must be about 
the fire that just happened. It can’t be a coincidence 
that the fire broke out at the same time that Echosong 
had her vision.” 


“Maybe there’s something left over at the Twoleg 
greenplace where the fire happened,’ Plumwillow 
suggested. “Maybe Skystar wants us to find it.” 

Echosong shook her head. “It's true that I had the 
vision on the same day that the fire happened, but—” 

“Was StarClan predicting the fire?” Nettlesplash 
asked, leaping to his paws. 

Hawkwing felt as though a rock had plummeted 
out of an empty sky and landed on top of him. 

Sharpclaw let out a low growl. “Quiet down, all of 
you, and let Echosong finish.” 

The Clan obeyed him, though there was still a stir 
of movement and muttered comments following 
Nettlesplash’s question. Hawkwing felt a tightness in 
his chest. Did Echosong know about the fire before 
it happened? And she kept it to herself? He tensed 
every muscle as though he was creeping up on prey as 
he listened to the medicine cat’s reply. 

“T believe that ‘the fire has burned out’ refers to 
Firestar’s death, and not a real fire,” Echosong 
meowed. “I don’t think that Skystar—” 

This time it was Tinycloud who interrupted. “If this 
prophecy is about some cat with fire m their name, 


then maybe it refers to Firefern or Bouncefire.” 

Bouncefire puffed his chest out at the thought of 
being mentioned in a prophecy, while Firefern, looking 
disturbed, opened her jaws to reply. 

But Hawkwing couldn’t hold himself in any longer. 
Before Firefern could speak, he sprang to his paws. “If 
you knew about the prophecy,’ he cried out to 
Echosong, “why didn’t you warn any cat? You think 
it’s just a comcidence that you received this prophecy 
on the morning of the great fire, and they’re not 
connected? That doesn’t make any sense! StarClan 
warned you about the fire, and—” 

“StarClan has always worked in mysterious ways,” 
Echosong cut in. “By the time I awoke from the 
dream, it was already too late. When I came out of the 
Whispering Cave, I could smell smoke, and by the time 
the smoke reached our camp the fire was already 
blazing. It was only moments later that you and the 
others returned with Duskpaw. Hawkwing, believe me, 
I understand how you feel. But not even a medicine 
cat can go back in time.” 

Her words had no more effect on Hawkwing than 
the cawing of rooks high in the branches of a tree. 


Thats unfair! Why would StarClan send a 
prophecy too late for Echosong to do anything? 
Duskpaw neednt have died! “What’s the point of 
having prophecies if they can’t prevent anything 
terrible?” he asked bitterly. 

Echosong’s voice grew gentle, and her beautiful 
eyes were full of compassion. “Hawkwing, I’m really 
sorry about what happened to your brother. It is a 
terrible tragedy. But this prophecy is not about him.” 

“How can it not be about him?” Hawkwing 
demanded, his heart pounding as if it would break out 
of his chest. His shoulder fur was bristling and he slid 
out his claws. He wanted to leap on Echosong as if 
she were his enemy, and if she had not been standing 
above him on the Rockpile, he might have done it. 
“The prophecy spoke of a fire, and Duskpaw died in 
one!” 

“Hawkwing, that’s enough!” Sharpclaw stepped 
forward and gazed down at his son. “Echosong is our 
medicine cat. She deserves your respect.” 

His sharp tones made Hawkwing feel 
embarrassed. He was too old to be scolded like that in 
front of the entire Clan. He said no more—he could 


barely speak. His whole body seemed to burn with 
shame and anger. 

“Prophecies can’t prevent every terrible thing,” 
Echosong explained. “But they can certainly help 
prevent some terrible things. And if StarClan tells us 
that we must find Firestar’s kin, then it’s up to SkyClan 
to listen—or who knows what might happen?” Her 
words fell into silence; every cat in the Clan had their 
gaze trained on her. 

Finally Leafstar raised her tail, and spoke into the 
silence. “I will consider sending a few cats on a quest 
to look for Firestar’s kin,” she announced. “But before 
that, a patrol will go to the scene of the fire just in case 
there’s anything in the embers.” 

“And what if there’s nothing to be found?” 
Sharpclaw asked. 

“Then we will be sure that Echosong’s prophecy 
did not refer to the real fire,’ Leafstar responded. 
“Sandynose, you will lead the patrol. Take Plumwillow 
and Hawkwing with you.” 

Hawkwing was startled to be chosen for the 
patrol. Surely Leafstar must be furious with me? 
Then he realized that his Clan leader must want him of 


all cats to be certain that there was nothing important 
at the scene of the fire, and that the prophecy had 
nothing to do with Duskpaw’s death. 

Leafstar dismissed the meeting, and the other cats 
began to disperse. Sandynose and Plumwillow came to 
join Hawkwing. 

“You haven’t eaten or slept,’ Sandynose meowed 
as he padded up. “We don’t have to go right now, if 
you want some fresh-kill and then take a nap.” 

“No, I’m fine.” Hawkwing’s paws were itching to 
get moving. “If we need to find the spark that remains, 
who is to say it won't blow away soon? How do we 
know it hasn’t blown away already?” 

“Okay.” Sandynose gave a brisk nod, and led the 
way up the trail to the top of the gorge. 

As he followed, Hawkwing realized part of the 
reason why he had been so hostile to Echosong. / want 
to believe that the prophecy was about the fire. 
Then it wouldnt be all my fault that Duskpaw died, 
because it would have been destined in the stars. 
But he realized too that even if that was true, it made 
no difference. Duskpaw is still dead. 

“I think the prophecy must have something to do 


with the fire,’ Plumwillow meowed as the patrol set 
out across the scrubby grass toward the Twoleg 
greenplace. “I mean, why would StarClan send us off 
to find the other Clans, when we're doing well right 
where we are?” 

“True,” Sandynose responded. “That would be 
mouse-brained.” 

Hawkwing remained quiet, barely listening to his 
Clanmates’ chatter. As they drew closer to the Twoleg 
greenplace, he began to pick up traces of the terrible 
smell of burning. He flinched, needing to pause for a 
moment with his eyes tight shut, as all the memories of 
that dreadful day came rushing back. He could hear 
the anguished cries of the trapped cats, and almost see 
Duskpaw’s scared face through the smoke. 

Forcing himself into motion again, Hawkwing 
caught up with his Clanmates. When the Twoleg 
greenplace came into sight, he could see that most of 
the debris from the fire had been cleared away, 
probably by Twolegs. The Twoleg rock was gone, and 
so was the fallen tree branch. All that remained were 
a stretch of earth where the grass had burned away, 
part of the burned tree, and scorch marks on the trash 


can. 

The three cats padded over the site of the fire, 
carefully examining everything. Sandynose and 
Plumwillow went on discussing the prophecy, but 
Hawkwing wasn’t interested. He was focused on 
finding something—anything—that might be “the spark 
that remains.” But the search didn’t take long, because 
there was hardly anything left to search. 

“There’s nothing here but charred earth and a bad 
smell,’ Sandynose declared with a sigh. “Echosong is 
probably right.” 

“Yes,” Plumwillow agreed. “The prophecy must be 
about Firestar’s kin—the other Clan cats.” 

Hawkwing remained quiet. He was still unsure 
about the prophecy, and the image of Duskpaw, 
trapped and terrified, kept flashing into his head. 

“Let’s go back,” Sandynose meowed. 

“Okay. And maybe we can pick up some prey on 
the way”  Plumwillow suggested. “Coming, 
Hawkwing?” 

Hawkwing shook his head. “No, you can go on 
without me. I’ Il follow you in a few moments.” 

As he watched his Clanmates retreating in the 


direction of the gorge, Hawkwing reflected how 
strange it felt to be allowed to say that. J don t have to 
go back with them, because I’m not an apprentice 
anymore. Its okay for me to be out here alone. 

Once his companions had vanished, Hawkwing 
turned to face the stretch of scarred earth. 

Even though his brother was buried under the tree 
at the top of the gorge, Hawkwing felt closer to him 
here, the last place Duskpaw was alive. And its a 
place he loved—because of all those scraps of 
Twoleg food. 

“Duskpaw,” he mewed aloud, his voice thick with 
emotion, “I’m so sorry I didn’t save you. I’m so sorry 
that you never got to be a warrior.” 

As Hawkwing stood there, silently grieving, the 
scent of another cat drifted into his nose. Startled, he 
turned to see a strange cat only a tail-length away. His 
heart pounded, and he twitched his ears, uncomfortable 
to realize he’d been overheard. How did he manage 
to creep up on me like that? 

The cat scent must have been covered up by the 
smell from the smoke and fire, he thought, turning his 
attention to the intruder. 


He was a strong, muscular tom, with white fur 
broken up with black spots, and a long black tail. His 
expression was friendly as he dipped his head to 
Hawkwing. But this was a cat Hawkwing had never 
smelled or seen before. 

“Hi,” he meowed. “My name is Darktail. I don’t 
mean to interrupt you, but I’m wondering if you're a 
Clan cat.” 

A Clan cat? For a moment Hawkwing was silent, 
not sure how to reply, or what this strange cat wanted. 
Why do you want to know? 

“Tm sorry, I wasn’t trying to eavesdrop,” Darktail 
continued, glancing down as though embarrassed, “but 
I heard you talking to your Clanmates. And I couldn’t 
help overhearing that you were talking to some cat 
who wasn’t there. The fire was a terrible tragedy, 
wasn’t it? Did you lose some cat you loved?” 

Hawkwing had begun to bristle when Darktail 
confirmed that he had overheard what he’d said to 
Duskpaw. That was private! But the white tom’s 
voice was so sympathetic that Hawkwing forced his 
shoulder fur to lie flat again. 

“Yes, I lost my brother,” he replied. 


“Pm so sorry,” Darktail meowed. “You know, I 
was caught in that fire too.” 

Hawkwing’s pads began to prickle with suspicion. 
I didnt see you here! “You don’t look injured,” he 
pointed out. 

“Well, I wasn’t exactly in the fire,’ Darktail 
explained. “I was resting, in those bushes over there.” 
He gestured with his tail Hawkwing looked to the 
bushes, which he knew he had walked past on his way 
to the Twoleg rock. How had he not seen a sleeping 
rogue? Then he guessed that he’d been so worried 
about his Clanmates, he just wasn’t paying attention to 
anything else. 

“I breathed in a lot of smoke,” Darktail continued. 
“It made me weak and confused, and I even passed 
out for a while,” he added, letting out a feeble cough. 
“And I haven’t been able to travel on because I can’t 
breathe very well, and I get tired quickly when I move 
around. I was wondering . . .” He paused, ducking his 
head in embarrassment. 

“What?” Hawkwing asked. What does this cat 
want? 

“Well, I know that Clan cats keep herbs for 


medicine,” Darktail replied. “Could you possibly give 
me something to help with my breathing? I’ve had 
trouble hunting, because I’m so weak. If you could, Pd 
repay you for your kindness.” 

It was strange, but Hawkwing felt an odd 
connection to this newcomer. Darktail had been injured 
in the same fire that killed Duskpaw. He, too, had 
suffered because of Twoleg foolishness. A sudden 
compulsion to help pricked every hair on his pelt. 
Somehow, Hawkwing thought, it would be like fighting 
the fire all over again, and this time, he could win. 

I cant take a strange cat into camp, but maybe 
I can get Echosong to bring him some herbs to help 
him. Surely she’ll do that, when Darktail was 
injured in the same fire that killed Duskpaw? 

“TPI go and get a medicine cat who might be able 
to help you,” he told Darktail. 

“PI come with you,” the white tom responded 
instantly. 

“No, you should stay here,” Hawkwing objected. 
“It’s too far for an injured cat.” He also didn’t want to 
bring a strange cat onto Clan territory without 
permission, but Darktail didn’t need to know that. 


“Please . . . I must come with you,” Darktail 
insisted, moving toward Hawkwing with wide, pleading 
eyes. Hawkwing stepped back, startled. 

Darktail dipped his head. “I’m sorry. I don’t mean 
to be demanding. It’s just, I can’t bear to stay alone 
among the charred remains anymore. It’s too terrible 
to be here with the smell and the memory—” He 
choked and went on, “The memory of the horrible 
things that happened. I only stayed because I heard 
there were Clan cats around here, and I hoped to meet 
one of you. I’m just so relieved to find you! But don’t 
worry, I won’t come into your camp unless I’m 
invited.” 

Hawkwing took in the strange cat’s serious, 
hopeful expression. “I understand,’ he murmured 
finally. Surely no cat can take issue with my 
showing him to our border—not after what he’s 
been through. 

Side by side, the two cats headed toward the 
gorge. Hawkwing set a slow pace because of 
Darktail’s breathing problems, but even so the white 
tom had to stop two or three times to catch his breath. 

I’m glad I found him, Hawkwing thought as they 


padded into the undergrowth at the top of the gorge. 
We went back to the Twoleg greenplace, looking 
for clues about the prophecy, and I found a cat 
looking for help. Excitement tingled through 
Hawkwing from ears to tail-tip. Maybe Darktail is a 
clue... Maybe he is “the spark that remains,” and 
I was meant to find him! 

“Stay here,” he told Darktail when they reached 
the edge of the cliff. “Pl go and find our medicine 
cat.” He felt embarrassed at the thought of seeking out 
Echosong so soon after arguing with her at the 
Rockpile, but he knew it had to be done. 

Echosong was in her den, sorting out herbs while 
Cloudmist slept curled up in her mossy nest. The 
medicine cat looked up as Hawkwing paused at the 
entrance to the den. 

“Hi, Hawkwing,” she mewed. “Can I help you?” 

If she was still upset about their argument, she 
didn’t show it, greeting Hawkwing with the same calm 
friendliness she showed to every cat. Hawkwing’s 
embarrassment faded. 

“I stayed behind at the greenplace after the others 
left,’ he told Echosong, “and I met a strange cat there. 


He was injured in the fire, too, and he doesn’t have a 
Clan to take care of him. I thought he might be 
somehow connected to the prophecy.” 

Echosong’s green eyes narrowed thoughtfully, but 
all she said was, “How was he injured?” 

“He breathed in too much smoke.” 

“Coltsfoot for that,” Echosong murmured, sorting 
through her herbs until she found some of the dried 
flowers. “Come on,” she added, picking up two stems 
in her jaws, “show me where he is.” 

Darktail was waiting where Hawkwing had left 
him, under a tree at the top of the gorge. Echosong 
looked wary as she approached him and set the 
coltsfoot down in front of him. “Eat one now,” she told 
him with a dip of her head, “and the other one at 
sunhigh.” 

“Thank you,” Darktail meowed, swallowing the 
first stem. “It’s great how you Clan cats look after 
each other. It must really make a difference, being part 
of a Clan.” 

“How do you know about the Clans?” Echosong 
asked, her eyes narrowing. 

“When I was a young cat, I knew some groups of 


cats who lived in a forest,” Darktail replied. “They all 
had their own territory, and each cat had its own 
duties, and they had a special cat who healed them.” 

“So you’ve met Clan cats?” Echosong asked, her 
ears perking up with excitement and curiosity. “You’ve 
seen them before?” 

“Sure I have. All the Clans had different names, 
and I think one of them was called . . . something like 
ThunderClan?” 

Hawkwing’s belly lurched as the white tom named 
Firestar’s Clan. He really must be part of the 
prophecy! He listened as Echosong, intensely 
interested now, went on questioning the newcomer. 
Darktail certainly seemed to know a lot about the 
Clans, as much as any loner would know who had 
spent some time living near them. Hawkwing could tell 
that Echosong suspected he might be able to help 
SkyClan find Firestar’s kin. And he realized that 
perhaps both meanings of the prophecy were correct. 

Maybe Darktail and ThunderClan are both “the 
spark that remains.” The fire led me to Darktail, 
and now Darktail is going to lead us to Firestar s 
kin. 


Finally, Echosong turned to Hawkwing. “Go and 
ask Leafstar to come up here,” she ordered him. 

As he headed down the trail toward Leafstar’s 
den, Hawkwing’s fur fluffed up with importance at the 
thought that he was fetching the Clan leader to talk to 
a cat that he had brought back from the site of the fire. 

When he reached Leafstar’s den, his father, 
Sharpclaw, was there with her. The two cats were 
talking quietly with their heads close together, and 
Hawkwing guessed that they were discussing what to 
do about the prophecy. 

He waited quietly by the entrance until Leafstar 


looked up and noticed him. 
“Yes, Hawkwing?” she mewed. “What can I do 
for you?” 


Dipping his head politely, Hawkwing explained how 
he had met Darktail, and how Echosong was talking to 
the stranger at the top of the gorge. “He seems to 
know a lot about the Clans,” he finished. “Echosong 
thinks you should hear what he has to say.” 

Leafstar nodded. “Of course. This sounds 
interesting.” 

“T’ll come with you,” Sharpclaw added. 


Hawkwing was pleased that his father wanted to 
talk to the newcomer as well. Maybe he'll finally 
think that I’ve done something right! 

Darktail was sitting under the same tree when 
Hawkwing returned with the Clan leader and deputy. 
Echosong was pacing to and fro a couple of tail- 
lengths away, her expression deeply thoughtful. She 
halted and turned back to Darktail when Leafstar 
appeared. 

“Tell Leafstar what you told me,” she directed. 

Darktail dipped his head respectfully to the Clan 
leader, and repeated what he had said earlier about the 
Clans. 

“Thank you, Darktail,” Leafstar meowed when he 
had finished. Her expression was warm. “Please come 
down into the camp and share our prey. Our hunting 
patrols have just returned, and there’s plenty for every 
cat. Then you can spend the night in the medicine cat’s 
den and get some rest.” She paused, then added, “If 
what you say is true, then you have given us all a very 
great gift.” 

Leafstar would never invite Darktail into camp 
unless she thought he could be a great help to SkyClan. 


In spite of his grief about his brother, Hawkwing felt 
every hair on his pelt tingle with pride that he had 
brought something useful back from the site of the fire. 

As he padded down the trail into the gorge, 
bringing up the rear behind his father, Hawkwing 
suddenly felt shaky with exhaustion, and his belly was 
bawling for food. Until then, the excitement of the 
morning, of discovering Darktail, had driven his night’s 
vigil and his hunger out of his mind. But now he could 
feel every moment that he had stayed awake. 

I could fall asleep on my paws if I wasnt 
starving! 

Once he reached the camp he split off from 
Darktail and the others, then bounded over to the 
fresh-kill pile and picked out a juicy-looking mouse, 
gulping it down in huge mouthfuls. Then, with a nod at 
the injured cat, he headed for his new nest in the 
warriors’ den. 

As he curled up and closed his eyes he felt a tiny 
hint of hope for the first time in days, like a light 
flickering in the depths of a dark forest. 





CHAPTER 5 
Je 


Hawkwing padded over to the foot of the Rockpile 
to join Billystorm, Waspwhisker, and Pebblepaw. 
Several days had passed since he had discovered 
Darktail near the site of the fire, and from the 
information he had given to Leafstar and Echosong, it 
seemed as if the other Clans might be only a journey of 
two or three sunrises away. The whole Clan had been 
delighted by that news, and Leafstar had decided to 
send a patrol at once. Hawkwing still couldn't believe 
that he had been chosen. It was his first quest away 
from camp, and it might have been the most important 
quest any SkyClan cat had ever undertaken. He felt a 
tingling shiver of excitement slip down his spine to 
think that they might be only a few sunrises from 
meeting the other Clans, and fulfilling StarClan’s 
prophecy. 

“Hawkwing!” Billystorm meowed as Hawkwing 
joined the group. “It's good to have you along. We’re 
only waiting for Blossomheart now.” 

Hawkwing felt his pelt prickle with hostility as he 


glanced at Billystorm's apprentice, Pebblepaw, 
standing beside her mentor. He felt resentful from ears 
to tail-tip that she was coming with them, and that 
Billystorm had specially asked Leafstar to add her to 
the patrol. Seemg how Pebblepaw was completely 
recovered now just made him remember that Duskpaw 
wasn t. He couldn't imagine how he would stand being 
so close to her for days on end. 

She's only an apprentice, he grumbled to himself. 
She probably won t be any use at all! 

Blossomheart bounded up to join the patrol just as 
Leafstar and Sharpclaw padded up to say good-bye, 
followed by Cherrytail, Echosong, Parsleypaw, and a 
few more SkyClan cats. Darktail was with them; he 
had begged Leafstar to be allowed to join the patrol, 
but Echosong had pointed out that he still wasn’t fit to 
travel any distance. 

“I wish I was coming with you,” he meowed. 
“Billystorm, you remember the directions I gave you?” 

“I do,” Billystorm replied. “And I hope by the time 
we get back you'll be well again.” 

“Thanks.” Darktail ducked his head. “I’m so 
grateful that you’ve accepted me into your camp.” 


He deserves it, Hawkwing thought, pride warming 
his pelt. Hes told us so much that we really need to 
know. We’re so lucky I found him! 

“Its time we were going.” Billystorm gestured 
with his tail for the patrol to gather together. “Is every 
cat ready?” 

Hawkwing touched noses with his mother to say 
good-bye. 

“Be careful,’ Cherrytail warned him. “And hurry 
back. I can’t wait to hear what you find out about the 
other Clans.” 

“Especially ThunderClan,’ Sharpclaw added, 
looking down at his son with a gleam of approval in his 
green eyes. “I find it hard to believe that Firestar is 
dead.” 

“We’ll find out for you!” Blossomheart assured 
him. 

“Then farewell,’ Leafstar meowed. “And may 
StarClan light your path.” 

Billystorm led the way up the trail to the top of the 
gorge and through the undergrowth to the stretch of 
scrubby open ground that separated SkyClan territory 
from the Twolegplace. The sun shone and the air was 


still; the only sound was the gentle humming of bees, 
and the swish of grasses as the cats brushed their way 
through. 

“Darktail says we have to go straight to the 
Twolegplace and through it,” Billystorm meowed. “We 

“I don’t like the idea of traveling through the 
Twolegplace.” Blossomheart sounded as if she was 
trying hard not to show nervousness. “Twolegs are bad 
news.” 

Billystorm flicked her gently over one ear with the 
tip of his tail. “Some of them are okay, and most of 
them won’t bother us. I can spot a bad Twoleg right 
away. Plus,” he added, “T still know my way through 
the Twolegplace.” 

“So where do we go after that?” Hawkwing asked 
eagerly. 

“We cross a Thunderpath, then look for a tree that 
splits into three,” Billystorm went on. “From there we 
turn and head toward the setting sun. We’ll know 
we’re going the right way when we come to a clearing 
ringed with trees, with a small stream running through 
it. According to Darktail, there’s an abandoned 


badgers’ den there. The Clan cats are two days’ 
journey beyond that.” 

“That sounds straightforward enough,” 
Waspwhisker commented, then twitched his whiskers. 
“I can't wait to get there! How exciting to meet the 
other Clans, after all these seasons apart.” 

“Yeah, we might get to meet Firestar,” Pebblepaw 
mewed hopefully. 

He's dead, mouse-brain, Hawkwing thought, but 
said nothing aloud; he didn't even want to speak to 
Pebblepaw. 

“Yes, we don't know for sure he's dead,” 
Billystorm responded. “And his kin must still be alive in 
ThunderClan.” 

“And Sandstorm,” Waspwhisker added. “The she- 
cat who came to SkyClan along with Firestar. She was 
brave too.” 

Blossomheart gave a little bounce. “This is so 
exciting!” 

“Leafstar told me stuff about the Clans that 
Firestar told her,” Billystorm went on. “He said all the 
other Clans think that ThunderClan is bossy, and its 
cats always believe they’ re right.” 


“If Firestar was their leader, they probably are 
always right,” Pebblepaw observed. “Firestar was 
such a hero!” 

“I heard some of those stories too,” Waspwhisker 
mewed. “WindClan cats are fast runners, RiverClan 
cats swim like fishes, and—” 

“And you can't trust ShadowClan cats as far as 
you could throw them,” Billystorm finished. “I wonder 
if that’s true?” 

Pebblepaw was silent for a moment, padding 
alongside her mentor, then meowed, “Do you think it'll 
be a good thing, being around a bunch of other cats 
who tell us what to do? SkyClan is used to going its 
own way.” 

“That's mouse-bramed,” Hawkwing responded 
curtly, unable to resist the chance to contradict 
Pebblepaw. “We’ll be stronger if we’re all together.” 

Pebblepaw fluffed up her neck fur and opened her 
jaws for a retort, but she was interrupted by 
Blossomheart. 

“Ooh, look!” the ginger-and-white she-cat 
exclaimed. “That cloud up there—it looks just like a 
cat with a long curly tail!” 


Great StarClan, are they all mouse-brained? 
Hawkwing thought irritably. “I don’t see why you’re in 
such high spirits,” he snapped at his sister. “Not after 
everything that’s happened.” 

Blossomheart flinched away from him, her gaze 
clouding. Hawkwing was immediately sorry that he 
had hurt her feelings. He knew very well that she was 
still grieving for Duskpaw. 

“I didn’t mean—” he began. 

He broke off as Pebblepaw thrust herself between 
him and Blossomheart, with a savage glance at 
Hawkwing. “I think it’s a perfectly beautiful cloud,” 
she mewed. “And it looks just like a cat!” 

The two she-cats padded on side by side, behind 
the older warriors, and Hawkwing brought up the rear, 
silently seething. [ts all Pebblepaws fault! With her 
around, I cant think straight. 

Before they reached the Twolegplace, Billystorm 
halted beside a small copse of beech trees, not far 
from the first of the Twoleg dens. 

“We might as well hunt here,” he meowed, “before 
we head into the Twolegplace. There’ll be slim 
pickings there.” 


Hawkwing’s jaws watered at the thought of prey. 
He had eaten a sparrow at dawn, and Echosong had 
given traveling herbs to all the questing cats, but he 
knew better than to turn down a chance to eat. Who 
knew how much prey they would find when they left 
their territory. He padded cautiously into the copse, his 
jaws parted to taste the air. 

He dropped into the hunter’s crouch as he picked 
up the scent of a mouse and spotted it nibbling 
something at the foot of a nearby tree. He began to 
creep up on it, remembering to set his paws down as 
light as falling leaves, but as he tensed, ready to 
pounce, he felt the brush of fur against his pelt and 
spotted Pebblepaw heading past him toward the same 
tree. 

Shes so young and stupid she didnt even scent 
it! Hawkwing thought as his mouse scuttled off and 
disappeared among the roots. /t would have to be her, 
ruining my hunt! 

At the same moment that the mouse vanished, 
Hawkwing heard paw steps scampering through the 
grass, and spotted a squirrel with Blossomheart in hot 
pursuit. The squirrel started to swarm up the tree 


trunk, but Pebblepaw was in the right place. She 
leaped after it, dug her claws into its back and brought 
it down, where she killed it with a swift bite to its 
throat. 

“Thank you, StarClan, for this prey,” she meowed, 
her eyes shining with triumph. 

Blossomheart ran up to her. “Great catch! That 
was a brilliant plan, Pebblepaw.” 

“We make a good team,” Pebblepaw purred. 

Despite himself, Hawkwing was impressed by 
Pebblepaw’s hunting skills. But he wasn’t gomg to tell 
her that. Especially when she made me lose my 
prey. 

Billystorm and Waspwhisker came paddmg through 
the trees, Waspwhisker carrying a blackbird. 

“Wow!” Billystorm exclaimed when he saw the 
squirrel. “Whose was that?” 

“Pebblepaw’s,” Blossomheart responded. 

“We both caught it,” Pebblepaw added 
immediately. 

Billystorm gave his apprentice a nod of approval. 
“Good job. Let's eat.” 

With a whisk of her tail Pebblepaw invited 


Hawkwing to share her squirrel. Though he crouched 
down with the others without a word, every mouthful 
tasted like crow-food. She did well, he admitted to 
himself grudgingly, but I wish I’d caught my own 
prey instead of having to feel grateful to her. 

When the squirrel had been picked to the bones, 
the patrol set off again. Billystorm took the lead as 
they headed into the Twolegplace. Hawkwing felt 
every hair on his pelt rise with apprehension as he 
padded into the shadows of the tall stone dens. The air 
grew stale, full of the scents of monsters and 
unfamiliar food. 

“Duskpaw would have loved this,’ Waspwhisker 
mewed, dropping back to walk alongside Hawkwing. 
“He couldn’t get enough of Twoleg food. He was 
always trying to get around the rules and sneak off.” 

Hawkwing remembered how irritating he had 
found it when his brother did that. Now all he could 
think about was how much fun his brother had been; 
he would have given anything to have Duskpaw back, 
even if he’d never seemed to take his apprentice 
training seriously. The memories choked him so that he 
couldn’t reply to Waspwhisker. 


“I had to scold him, and punish him sometimes,” 
the gray-and-white tom went on. “That was my job as 
his mentor, because otherwise he would never learn. 
He must have shifted more ticks from the elders’ fur 
than any other apprentice in the Clan! But he was 
never resentful. . . he would always make a joke, so it 
was hard to be angry with him.” 

“I know.” Hawkwing managed to speak at last. 
“When we were kits, he thought up the best games ... 
and he was really good at sneaking off so we could 
play.” 

Amusement glimmered in Waspwhisker’s eyes. “I 
remember Cherrytail saying her paws would fall off, 
she spent so much time chasing him back into the 
nursery!” 

Gradually, listening to the older warrior, Hawkwing 
began to feel comforted. This was the first time any 
cat had spoken to him so openly about Duskpaw. / 
guess they thought it would hurt me too much. But 
its good to hear Waspwhisker s memories. It makes 
Duskpaw seem closer, somehow. 

“TIl never stop missing him,” Hawkwing managed 
to mew softly. 


Waspwhisker nodded understandingly. “He had so 
much spirit! You know, I blame myself... ,” he 
added. 

Hawkwing gazed at him, startled. But it was my 
fault.... 

“Maybe if I’d been sterner with Duskpaw, about 
leaving the territory without a warrior, he wouldn’t 
have sneaked off that day to get the Twoleg food. And 
then he’d still be alive.” 

“You can’t know that,” Hawkwing responded, 
feeling how strange it was to reassure a more 
experienced warrior. “No cat ever stopped Duskpaw 
from doing what he wanted.” 

Waspwhisker let out a little huff of amusement. 
“No...” 

“You couldn't be responsible, because /'m 
responsible,” Hawkwing continued. “I could have 
saved him!” 

Waspwhisker touched Hawkwing’s shoulder with 
the tip of his tail “Maybe when some cat dies, part of 
our grief is feeling guilty and wishing we’d done things 
differently. Even though there’s nothing we could have 
done.” He let out a deep sigh. “You know, I don’t think 


Duskpaw would want either of us to feel guilty. He 
always wanted every cat to be happy.” 

“That's true,” Hawkwing murmured. “One time, 
when Ebonyclaw was teaching me to hunt, I was upset 
because I missed a really easy catch. Duskpaw 
brought his mouse to share with me, and told me a 
funny story about how he tripped over his own paws 
trying to stalk a rabbit.” 

“We’ll grieve for him and miss him,” Waspwhisker 
went on, “but we should remember that it is happiness 
he would want us to carry in our hearts when we think 
of him.” 

Hawkwing’s chest swelled at the older warrior’s 
wisdom. But a heartbeat later the sound of high- 
pitched Twoleg yowling struck his ears and his heart 
started to pound with the shock. 

“Get down!” Billystorm ordered. 

Deep in conversation with Waspwhisker, 
Hawkwing had hardly noticed his surroundings as they 
followed Billystorm through the Twolegplace. Now he 
realized that they had left the last of the dens behind 
them and begun to cross a stretch of grass with a 
Thunderpath beyond. Crouching close together with 


the rest of the patrol, he spotted several Twoleg kits 
ahead of them, running up and down and waving their 
forepaws around, as if they were having some kind of 
battle. 

“Listen to me,” Billystorm hissed. “This could be 
dangerous. Some Twolegs can be violent and 
unpredictable, and ther kits are even worse. It’s 
usually best to hide and wait for them to go away, but 
this grass won’t give us cover for long. They’re bound 
to spot us soon.” 

“So what do we do?” Pebblepaw asked. 

“We’ll have to make a run for it,” Billystorm 
replied. “Once we get across the Thunderpath we 
should be safe. In my experience, Twoleg kits won’t 
cross it unless they have bigger Twolegs with them. 
So, when I say run, run—and for StarClan’s sake, 
watch out for monsters.” 

Hawkwing peered out through the stems of grass, 
his heart thumping harder than ever. The Thunderpath 
was many fox-lengths ahead of them, directly on the 
other side of the group of battlng Twoleg kits. As 
Hawkwing stared at them, one of the Twoleg kits let 
out a louder screech and started to run toward the 


cats, pointing with one forepaw. 

“Go!” Billystorm yowled. 

Hawkwing sprang forward, wind streaming 
through his fur as he raced for the Thunderpath. 
Pebblepaw and Blossomheart pelted along just ahead 
of him, while Waspwhisker kept pace alongside him 
and Billystorm brought up the rear. More Twoleg kits 
were chasing them now, the air filled with their horrible 
caterwauling. 

The Thunderpath drew closer and closer. 

We’re going to make it! Hawkwing thought. 

Then one of Hawkwing’s forepaws slid down into 
a concealed dip in the ground. He lost his balance and 
rolled over and over, ending up on his side, all the 
breath driven out of him. 

Hawkwing looked up, gasping for air, to see all his 
Clanmates far ahead of him. Blossomheart and 
Pebblepaw had already crossed the Thunderpath. 
Waspwhisker was waiting on the near side while a 
gleaming blue monster roared past. Only Billystorm 
skidded to a halt in front of Hawkwing and looked 
back. 

“Go on!” Hawkwing yowled. “I’m okay! PI catch 


up!” 

As Billystorm raced on, Hawkwing felt a shadow 
fall over him. He turned his head to see a Twoleg kit 
stooping over him, one huge forepaw reaching out to 
grab him. Something strange glittered in its other 
forepaw and its mouth gaped, letting out a triumphant 
screech. 

Hawkwing sprang up and dodged away, barely 
avoiding the outstretched paw. But as he streaked 
away across the grass a blow struck him on his back. 
He could feel something trickling through his fur. 

Oh, StarClan, help me! It must be blood! 

Hawkwing wondered if he was somehow so badly 
injured, he couldn’t even feel the pain. But strangely 
the wound didn’t stop him from running. Reaching the 
edge of the Thunderpath, he hurled himself across it 
without even looking up. The air was split with a 
screeching so loud that it drowned out the sounds of 
the Twoleg kits, and Hawkwing felt wind buffeting his 
tail and his hindquarters as a massive monster growled 
past. 

As soon as his paws touched the grass on the far 
side of the Thunderpath, Hawkwing collapsed, panting. 


His Clanmates gathered around and stared down at 
him, concerned looks on their faces. 

“They got me!” Hawkwing gasped. “The Twoleg 
kits got me! I’m bleeding!” 

Even as he spoke, he felt that something wasn’t 
right. Blood was supposed to be warm, but he realized 
for the first time that the stuff dripping down his back 
was cold. 

Billystorm bent closer and gave him a long sniff. 
“That’s not blood,’ he mewed. His eyes were 
sparkling with amusement, though he was clearly 
trying to keep it out of his voice. “It’s water.” 

“What?” Hawkwing twisted around, trying to 
crane his neck so that he could see. 

“Water,” Billystorm repeated. “The Twoleg kits 
were shooting it out of weird shiny things they held in 
their paws.” 

Relief flooding through him, Hawkwing staggered 
to his paws. He could see that every cat, like 
Billystorm, was struggling to keep a serious expression, 
as if they were all trying to hide how funny they found 
his misadventure. 

I suppose it is pretty funny, he thought. Duskpaw 


would be rolling on the ground with laughter if he 
were here now.... 

But then Hawkwing noticed that Pebblepaw had 
turned away to hide her face, and in spite of her 
efforts her tail was curling up with amusement. Anger 
spurted up inside him, stifling his relief. Duskpaw isn t 
here to laugh because of her. How dare she laugh 
at me! 

“It’s not funny!” he yowled at Pebblepaw. “I could 
have been killed!” 

Pebblepaw spun around to face him again. “With 
water?” 

“Well, I could have drowned!” 

Blossomheart let out a snort of laughter, and 
Hawkwing spun around to glare at her. 

“Honestly . . .” Pebblepaw rolled her eyes. “Are 
you a mouse? Even a mouse couldn’t have drowned in 
that much water.” 

Hawkwing slid out his claws, a breath away from 
leaping on Pebblepaw and scratching her ears. “Well, I 
know you don’t take death very seriously,” he snarled. 

His gaze met Pebblepaw’s, and for a few 
heartbeats she stared back at him. Hawkwing could 


see that she understood he was referring to 
Duskpaw’s death. And I can see that I’ve hurt her. 
Well, she deserves it! 

Billystorm’s eyes narrowed. He looked ready to 
step in, then clearly decided to let his apprentice fight 
her own battles. 

“That’s totally unfair!” Pebblepaw protested to 
Hawkwing with a lash of her tail. “We were only 
having a bit of fun. I do take death seriously,” she 
added, clearly trying to calm down. “Never mind—I 
can see there's no point trying to make you 
understand.” She shrugged, turning away. 

Hawkwing didn’t want to listen anymore. With a 
furious hiss he whirled around and stalked off away 
from the Thunderpath, not waiting to see if any of his 
Clanmates followed. 

The others soon caught up to him. “Take it easy,” 
Billystorm meowed. “Blaming another cat won’t lessen 
our grief. We still have a long way to go before we 
stop for the night, and we’ll only make it more difficult 
if we start quarreling among ourselves.” 

Hawkwing simply grunted an acknowledgment of 
the senior warrior’s words. He felt as if no cat would 


ever understand what he was going through. 

Padding forward, ignoring the rest of his 
Clanmates, Hawkwing decided that the only way to 
survive this quest was to keep to himself and not talk 
to any cat. / dont even know if I’m being fair 
anymore—and I dont care. Allhe could feel was the 
pain of missing Duskpaw. 

He was glad when the sun went down and they 
could start looking for a place to make camp. 





CHAPTER 6 
+ 


Hawkwing stood staring up into the branches of a 
massive oak tree, wondering if it might be “the tree 
that splits into three” that Darktail had told them about. 
This was the third day since they had left camp, and 
already the sun was beginning to slide down the sky. 
Every cat was beginning to wonder whether somehow 
they had gone wrong and missed Darktail’s landmark. 

“This must be it,” Billystorm meowed. “Look, the 
trunk splits into three about five fox-lengths up.” 

The leaves had still not reached their greenleaf 
fullness, so it was easy to see how the huge thick trunk 
divided. And Hawkwing could see that this was clearly 
the wrong tree. If we take this as our landmark, 
then the whole quest is doomed, he thought. J have 
to say something. ... 

Hawkwing took a breath. This was the first time 
he had really spoken to his Clanmates since his 
outburst after the Twolegs’ attack. 

“See how that branch splits again a tail-length 
away from the first fork?” He gestured at it with his 


tail. “So if you’re looking closely, the tree splits into 
four, not three.” 

“Well, three of the branches are very thick,” 
Waspwhisker pointed out, “and the fourth one is much 
thinner. So maybe it shouldn’t be counted.” 

Hawkwing felt his neck fur begin to bristle. “Of 
course it should! Any cat can see it divides into four, 
not three.” 

“How great it must be, to be a young cat.” 
Waspwhisker’s tail-tip twitched irritably. “They know 
everything! Hawkwing, if you—” 

“That’s enough.” Billystorm stepped forward. “T 
suggest we put it to a vote. Is this Darktail’s tree, or 
isn’t it?” 

“T don’t think it is,” Hawkwing responded instantly, 
hurt by Waspwhisker’s snarky comment. We have to 
follow Echosong 5 vision and find the other Clans. 
If we get this wrong, who knows what will happen? 
“I vote we carry on until we find a tree that really 
does split into three and not four.” 

“You know what I think,” Waspwhisker huffed. 
“This is it, no question.” 

“I agree,” Pebblepaw mewed with a glance at 


Hawkwing. He couldn’t read her expression, to know 
if she was voting against him just to be spiteful. Could 
she really be that petty? To risk the whole quest just 
to get at me? 

“So do I,” Blossomheart added. 

Hawkwing felt his shoulder fur beginning to bristle. 
Even my own sister won t back me up! 

Billystorm nodded. “I have to say, I do too,” he 
responded to Blossomheart. “Hawkwing, maybe 
Darktail didn’t look as closely as you did. At first 
glance, the tree splits into three.” 

Hawkwing shrugged. He knew there was no point 
in arguing anymore, when he was outvoted four to one. 
I just hope Billystorm is right, otherwise we "Il never 
find the other Clans. 

Following Darktail’s directions, Billystorm led the 
way toward the setting sun. It was already low on the 
horizon, staining the sky red and casting the cats’ 
shadows behind them. 

Hawkwing realized that every cat except him was 
in good spirits, drawing new energy from finding the 
sign, and believing they were now only a short journey 
from the cats they had set out to find. 


“I wonder what they’ll be like,’ Blossomheart 
meowed. “The other Clan cats. Won’t they be 
surprised to see us!” 

“ÉI wonder . . . ,” Pebblepaw murmured 
awkwardly, concern clouding her gaze. “What will we 
do if the other Clans don’t want us to join them? After 
all, didn’t the same Clans drive us out, all those 
seasons ago? Isn’t that why SkyClan lives alone?” 

“That was ages ago,’ Hawkwing snapped, adding 
under his breath, “mouse-brain.” 

Billystorm let out a sigh, ignoring Hawkwing’s 
comment. “Yes, that’s a sad part of SkyClan’s history. 
We had to leave the forest when we lost our territory, 
and the other Clans didn’t help. But Firestar told us 
that he regretted what happened. As far as we know, 
the rest of the present-day Clans will feel the same 
way. They have no reason not to welcome us.” 

“But—” Pebblepaw began. 

“We don’t know what will happen when we meet 
the other Clans.” Billystorm cut off his apprentice in a 
calm but firm voice. “But we have to believe that 
StarClan would not lead us astray.” 

The younger cats fell silent, leaving Billystorm and 


Waspwhisker to chat casually as the patrol padded on 
through light woodland. 

“I wonder what it will be like, meeting Firestar’s 
kin,” Waspwhisker meowed. 

“I can’t wait.” Billystorm's voice was warm. 
“According to Leafstar, he was such a great cat. 
Surely we’ve got a lot to learn from his kin.” 

Hawkwing wasn't actually sure what he felt about 
meeting the other Clans. He’d only argued with 
Pebblepaw because he couldn’t stand to agree with 
her. Privately he wasn’t at all sure that the old grudges 
would have been laid to rest. 

He wondered too what it would be like to live close 
to other cats, when SkyClan had been alone for so 
long. Will we have to change the way we do things? 

The forest quickly grew denser, with more fern 
and bramble thickets between the trees. Soon the cats 
heard the sound of running water; heading toward it, 
they came out of a clump of elder bushes and found 
themselves on the edge of a small stream. 

“We should follow this,” Billystorm meowed. 
“Darktail mentioned a stream.” 

“He also mentioned a clearing,’ Waspwhisker 


pointed out. “But I suppose if we follow the stream we 
might find that before long.” 

The senior warriors were right. Almost at once the 
questing cats emerged from the undergrowth into a 
large clearing surrounded by mossy banks. Hawkwing 
felt embarrassed to realize that he had argued so 
vehemently about the tree, and now he had been 
proved wrong. To his relief, none of his Clanmates 
mentioned that, not even Pebblepaw. 

And at least we are on the right track, so we 
should find the other Clans soon. If Darktail’s 
directions were correct, they were very close. Can it 
really be this easy? 

“This must be Darktail’s clearing,’ Billystorm 
mewed, glancing around. 

“So we're near the end of our quest!” 
Blossomheart exclaimed, clawing at the ground in 
excitement. “What did Darktail say—the Clan cats are 
two sunrises’ journey beyond this?” 

Billystorm nodded. “That's right. I suggest we 
make camp here, and—” 

“What’s that smell?” Pebblepaw interrupted. 

Hawkwing tasted the air and picked up a strong, 


musty scent; he had smelled it before, in the woods at 
the top of the gorge opposite the camp. “Badger,” he 
murmured. “Darktail said they used to live here.” 

As the cats advanced farther into the clearing, the 
scent grew even stronger. Hawkwing noticed several 
dark holes in the mossy banks, too big to be rabbit 
burrows. The scent seemed to flow out of them. 

All the hairs on the back of Hawkwing’s neck 
began to rise. “This scent is really strong. Do you think 
the badgers might still be here?” he asked. “Wouldn’t it 
be stale and faint if the badgers really had abandoned 
the place, like Darktail said?” 

Before any cat could reply, Hawkwing spotted 
movement deep in one of the holes, and a wedge- 
shaped snout appeared. Hawkwing stood rigid at the 
sight of the white stripe down the badger’s muzzle and 
its bright, malignant eyes. As the badger emerged into 
the open, Blossomheart let out a screech; whirling, 
Hawkwing saw two more badgers thrust their way out 
of two different holes on the far side of the clearing. 

Panic seized Hawkwing’s gut. Darktail was 
wrong! he realized as panic crashed over him. The 
badger den isn t abandoned at all! 


For a heartbeat it seemed as if every creature had 
been frozen into ice. Then the badgers plunged into the 
attack. The biggest of them headed straight for 
Blossomheart, its teeth bared. Blossomheart leaped 
backward, but her paws skidded and she fell. The 
badger lunged for her neck. 

No! 

Hawkwing sprang into action, flinging himself 
between his sister and her attacker. I’m not going to 
let another of my littermates get killed! The badger’s 
teeth sank into his shoulder, but Hawkwing barely felt 
it; his whole being was filled with terror for 
Blossomheart, and determination to save her, whatever 
it took. 

“Leave her alone, mange-pelt!” he growled. 

The badger began to shake him, lifting his paws off 
the ground. Then behind him he heard Blossomheart 
let out another screech. At the same moment she flew 
over his shoulder and landed on the big badger’s back, 
digging in her claws and raking at its ears as she tried 
to make it let go of Hawkwing. 

The grip of the badger’s teeth loosened and 
Hawkwing tore himself free. He slashed his claws 


across the badger’s flank, then darted back out of 
range of its blunt, stripy head. The badger reared up on 
its hind paws, shaking its shoulders in an attempt to 
dislodge Blossomheart, but she clung on, still swiping at 
its ears. 

In the moment of respite Hawkwing glanced 
across the clearing to see that the two smaller badgers 
were attacking Waspwhisker, Pebblepaw, and 
Billystorm from either side. The three cats had 
clustered together, back to back, to defend themselves. 
Hawkwing guessed these badgers were younger and 
less experienced than the one that had attacked 
Blossomheart, but their teeth and claws were still 
powerful and dangerous. 

Hawkwing threw himself at the big badger again, 
springing up to claw at its shoulder, then leaping away. 
Maybe we can tire it out... . 

The big badger at last managed to throw 
Blossomheart off. As she hit the ground she rolled 
over, underneath her attacker, and delivered a raking 
blow to its belly, then scrambled out on its other side 
and back to her paws. The badger let out a ferocious 
cry that echoed around the clearing. 


As if in response, another badger emerged from 
the tunnels and lumbered over to join in the fight. It 
was even bigger than the first one, a furious glitter in 
its tiny black eyes as it focused on the cats. 

Great StarClan! Hawkwing thought despairingly. 
Now we have to take on two of them! How many 
more are there? 

Even though it was injured, the first badger was 
still a formidable opponent, and it seemed to draw new 
energy from the appearance of its denmate. 
Hawkwing crouched defiantly, ready to leap into battle 
again. The odds arent good, but I’m going to fight 
my hardest. 

Then a speckled white blur flew across 
Hawkwing’s vision. Pebblepaw! The she-cat hurled 
herself at the first badger, slashed at its eyes, then 
whirled to swipe at the other one. 

Both badgers let out roars of pain and began to 
back away. The one already injured by Hawkwing and 
Blossomheart turned and trundled off, back into its 
hole. The biggest badger remained slumped in the 
grass, clawing at the blood that trickled from around its 
eyes and down its nose. 


Warm gratitude to Pebblepaw flooded through 
Hawkwing. And after I'd been so nasty to her! Then 
he realized that he had no idea what had happened to 
his other Clanmates. 

Billystorm! Waspwhisker! Hawkwing thought, 
whipping around with Pebblepaw and Blossomheart to 
help them in their battle. Then his heart lurched; he 
could see now that Waspwhisker was limping on three 
legs, and blood was pouring from one of his ears. 
Beside him, Billystorm lay motionless in a pool of 
blood. 

No! Hawkwing felt as if every muscle in his body 
had been turned to ice. / cant imagine SkyClan 
without Billystorm—and he means so much to 
Leafstar! How will we manage without him? 

Pebblepaw let out a screech and threw herself 
across the clearing, snapping and clawing as she 
attacked the badgers. Hawkwing and Blossomheart 
followed hard on her paws. The biggest badger joined 
in again, and the clearing seemed full of their reek and 
their snarling. 

The sight of Billystorm’s body gave strength to 
Hawkwing’s fury as he leaped and slashed at the three 


attackers. But Pebblepaw seemed to be everywhere, a 
shrieking whirl of teeth and claws, flinging herself into 
the battle with no thought for her own safety. 

She's lost control, Hawkwing thought, anguished. 
Shes taking too many risks. She must want to 
avenge Billystorm. 

At last the biggest badger let out a harsh cry. All 
three badgers began to retreat, and Pebblepaw harried 
them, biting and clawing at their hind paws as they 
lumbered across the clearing and vanished down their 
holes. 

“Let them go! It’s over!” Hawkwing gasped to 
Pebblepaw. 

Pebblepaw glanced at him, and Hawkwing saw in 
her eyes the same desperation he had felt when 
Duskpaw died. She turned back, panting, then raced 
across the clearing and flung herself down beside 
Billystorm’s body. Hawkwing’s heart lurched as he 
saw the massive wound slashed across the ginger-and- 
white tom’s belly. Blood seeped from it into 
Pebblepaw’s fur. 

“Billystorm!” Pebblepaw exclaimed, shaking him 
by the shoulder. “It’s okay. They’ve gone.” 


But Billystorm still didn’t move. Waspwhisker bent 
his head to touch the apprentice’s ear with his nose. 
“T’m sorry, Pebblepaw,” he murmured. “He's dead.” 

“No!” Pebblepaw flung her head back and let out 
a horrible shriek. 

Hawkwing felt his heart twist with pain. All his 
annoyance with Pebblepaw faded in the face of her 
obvious, inconsolable grief. 

“Let’s carry him away from here,” he suggested. 
“We’ll find a place to sit vigil for him.” 

Pebblepaw turned to face him with a blind stare, as 
if she wasn’t sure who he was. Then she bowed her 
head without speaking. 

“What are we going to tell Leafstar?” 
Blossomheart whispered. 

“The truth,’ Waspwhisker responded, his voice 
hoarse. “Billystorm died a warrior’s death, defending 
his Clanmates.” 

Hawkwing supposed that the senior warrior’s 
words should have been comforting. 

But he also knew that nothing would comfort 
Leafstar once she learned that they’d lost Billystorm. 





CHAPTER 7 
+ 


Hawkwing staggered to his paws to give himself a 
long stretch, then shook dew from his pelt. All night he 
had crouched under the tree that split into three, 
keeping vigil beside Billystorm’s body. Now milky 
dawn light was creeping through the trees, banishing 
the shadows. The air was cool and dry, carrying the 
fresh scent of growing things. 

Hawkwing felt stiff and light-headed, and still 
stunned by grief. His wounds had started to throb, but 
he almost welcomed the pain, because it helped to blur 
his memory of the battle and his uncertainty about the 
future. 

It seemed impossible that the day before, they’d 
thought they might be mere sunrises away from finding 
the other Clans. Now, after they’d walked right into a 
badger attack, no cat could be sure if their directions 
were even accurate. If Darktail was wrong about 
the badger den, what else might he be wrong 
about? Hawkwing thought back to their dispute over 
the “tree that split into three.” What if he”d been right? 


What if it was the wrong tree, and they’d been 
following the wrong path ever since? 

Looking at his Clanmates, Hawkwing shook out his 
pelt and sighed. Among all these questions, one thing 
was undeniable: Billystorm was dead, and Hawkwing 
had no idea what was going to happen next. 

Who would have thought our quest would end 
like this? 

Blossomheart and Pebblepaw sat pressed close 
together at the opposite side of Billystorm’s body, both 
of them still and silent. At first Hawkwing couldn’t see 
Waspwhisker, until he spotted the gray-and-white tom 
limping out from behind a bramble thicket. 

‘Tve been taking a look around,” he murmured as 
he jomed Hawkwing. “We shouldn’t stay here, so close 
to the badgers. But we’ll bury Billystorm first.” 

Pebblepaw raised her head. “No! We should take 
him back to be buried among his Clanmates. That’s 
what Leafstar would want.” 

Waspwhisker shook his head. “I understand your 
concern, Pebblepaw, but it’s too far. Besides, his body 
would attract predators. You don’t want that, do you?” 

In reply, Pebblepaw let out a small murmur of 


grief. Then she inspected the ground for a moment, 
before padding over to a spot near the base of the tree 
and beginning to scratch at the earth. Hawkwing and 
Blossomheart joined her, digging out a grave for 
Billystorm. No cat spoke as they struggled through the 
task, ignoring their own wounds and their weariness. 

Hawkwing couldn’t believe how things had gone 
so wrong. Theres been so much death, in such a 
short time. First Duskpaw, and now Billystorm. . . 
Perhaps terrible things will keep happening until 
we find “the spark that remains.” 

Now when Hawkwing looked at Pebblepaw, he 
could only feel empathy and understanding. It was 
hard to remember what the old hostility had been like. 
His heart felt as if it were breaking for her; he could 
see her paws shaking as she thrust them into the earth, 
digging the hole for her beloved mentor. 

I know exactly how she feels—like I felt when 
Dusk paw died. 

When the grave was deep enough they laid 
Billystorm’s body in it and covered it over, each taking 
a turn to push earth into the hole. When the task was 
done, all four cats stood beside the grave for a moment 


in silent respect, and Hawkwing tried to remember the 
words that Echosong had spoken over Duskpaw’s 
body. 

“May StarClan light your path, Billystorm. May 
you find good hunting, swift running, and shelter when 
you sleep.” 

The cats bowed their heads, and at that moment a 
shaft of sunlight struck through the branches of the 
tree and settled on Billystorm’s grave. 

“Look—that might almost be a message from 
StarClan,” Waspwhisker murmured. 

Hawkwing wanted to believe that the senior 
warrior was right, yet the words brought him very little 
comfort, and he could see that Pebblepaw wasn’t 
comforted, either. 

As the cats stepped away from the mound of 
earth, Hawkwing turned to Pebblepaw, searching 
awkwardly for words. He knew as well as any cat 
how private grief was, and how—sometimes—any cat 
saying anything, even something nice, could be just 
another claw snagging at your heart. Yet he couldn’t 
use that as an excuse not to do what was right. 

“Thank you, Pebblepaw,” he mewed. “You saved 


my life and Blossomheart’s. If it hadn’t been for you, I 
might not be alive right now. I’m very grateful to you.” 

At first, Pebblepaw didn’t answer, just padded 
away from him. Then she spun around, hurt and anger 
in her eyes. “I should have stayed to help protect my 
mentor,” she hissed. “If only I hadn’t left him to help 
you and Blossomheart, he might still be alive.” 

Hawkwing felt his heart sink into his belly. 
Pebblepaw isnt just grieving for her mentor; she’s 
blaming herself! 

Until then, it hadn’t occurred to Hawkwing that 
Pebblepaw had done anything she might regret, but 
now he realized that they shared more than he had 
ever expected. / blamed myself for Duskpaw’s death 
because I saved Pebblepaw first. She blames 
herself for Billystorm because she helped me and 
Blossomheart defend ourselves when the badgers 
would have killed us. 

Hawkwing knew that would only make 
Pebblepaw’s grief more painful. But because he’d felt 
exactly the same way, he also knew that this wasn’t 
the right time to discuss it with her. She needed time to 
think over what had happened. He kept his jaws 


clamped shut. 

At that moment Waspwhisker called the rest of the 
patrol together. “What now?” he asked, and 
Hawkwing stood up at attention, eager to finally 
discuss what would become of their quest. 

“We’re here in the open,” Waspwhisker continued, 
“and while there doesn’t seem to be any danger 
threatening us right now, the badgers aren’t all that far 
away. I know I’m injured, and that might make us 
vulnerable, but I’m willing to carry on. We need to 
decide if that’s what we want to do.” 

“Do you think we should carry on?” Hawkwing 
asked. While he hadn’t been sure, he’d sort of 
assumed that Billystorm’s death would bring an end to 
their journey. How can we go on? We've lost our 
leader. 

Waspwhisker nodded. “While Billystorm’s death 
was tragic, we all know how vital it is for us to 
complete the quest. We must find ‘the spark that 
remains.” According to Darktail, we’re only two days’ 
journey away from the other Clans. We should find the 
cats we set out to find, in Billystorm’s memory, and as 
StarClan directed us.” He paused, and when no cat 


made a comment, he added, “What do you think?” 

The silence stretched out for another few 
heartbeats. Somehow, after Billystorm’s death, 
Hawkwing was having trouble picturing the other 
Clans so close. But he supposed it made sense that 
they must still be. 

Blossomheart was the first to speak. “I agree with 
you, Waspwhisker. We should carry on.” 

“What?” Pebblepaw whipped her head around to 
stare at her friend. “It would be disrespectful to 
Billystorm’s memory to continue the quest without 
him!” 

“But finishing the quest is what Billystorm would 
have wanted,” Waspwhisker pointed out. 

“There’s no way to know what Billystorm would 
have wanted,’ Pebblepaw mewed bitterly. “Because 
he’s dead.” Her voice shook, but a moment later she 
was able to continue. “Besides, it looks like we can’t 
rely on Darktail’s directions. He said the badgers’ den 
was abandoned, and it clearly wasn’t. Who knows 
what else he was wrong about?” 

“But, I guess the badgers could have moved back 
in without Darktail knowing,’ Waspwhisker pointed 


out. “He might not have been wrong about anything 
else.” 

“But we can’t take that risk,” Pebblepaw argued. 
“We should go back now, to tell Leafstar that her mate 
is dead, and to tell the others what happened. Going on 
isn’t safe, and it isn’t right,’ she finished with an 
emphatic swish of her tail. 

“Hawkwing?” Waspwhisker turned to him. 
“What’s your opinion?” 

Hawkwing looked for a moment at Pebblepaw, 
who refused to return his gaze. He understood exactly 
how she felt. Right after Duskpaw died, he had felt the 
same. / missed Duskpaw so much, I couldnt think 
about anything else. Imagine if I’d been expected 
to complete a quest right then! 

He couldn’t blame Pebblepaw, and in any case her 
feelings didn’t change his decision. “We should go 
home now. I know one thing Billystorm would have 
wanted: for us to survive. And now, going home seems 
the best chance of that. We can worry about finding 
the Clans when we have a better plan.” 

Blossomheart nodded. “The plan we had was 
pretty disastrous,” she meowed. 


“Yes,” Hawkwing continued. “Who can say what 
else Darktail was wrong about? Who can say what 
other dangers lie ahead? We might meet more badgers, 
or something worse.” And we cant afford to lose 
more cats. 

“TP ve changed my mind,” Blossomheart announced 
as soon as her brother had finished speaking. “T agree 
with Hawkwing and Pebblepaw. I still think we should 
try to find the Clans—but it's clear this quest has 
failed.” 

Waspwhisker fluffed out his neck fur, and for a 
few heartbeats Hawkwing thought he was upset to be 
challenged by younger warriors. “Maybe you’re too 
young to understand the importance of such a strong 
message from StarClan,” he suggested. “Billystorm’s 
death was terrible, but we still must find the other 
Clans. And this seems like the best chance we have.” 

Then he let out a sigh. “But there are four of us,” 
he mewed, “and if three of you want to go home, 
there’s nothing I can do.” 

He rose to his paws. “Let’s go.” 


The patrol set out on the long trek back to familiar 
territory. Heartsick and in pain from his wounds, 


Hawkwing found it hard to remember the optimism 
with which they had set out. We were all so excited 
about meeting the other Clans, and now they seem 
farther away than ever. This whole quest has been 
a disaster. Surely StarClan didn t mean for it to end 
like this? 

They walked in silence until Waspwhisker called 
for a halt. “We ought to hunt,” he meowed. “I know 
none of us feel like eating, but we have to keep our 
strength up.” 

Hawkwing knew that he was right, though the 
thought of food made his belly heave. 

The cats were standing at the top of a hill; on the 
far side it sloped down gently into a hollow with a pool 
at the bottom, edged by bushes and thick vegetation. 
Hawkwing remembered that they had found good prey 
there on the way out. 

“Let's stop and hunt down there,” Blossomheart 
suggested. “We could rest for a bit, too.” 

Waspwhisker nodded. “Good idea.” 

As they padded down the slope, Hawkwing slowed 
his pace to walk beside his sister. “Let's you and I 
hunt, once we’ve found a place to rest,” he murmured. 


“Pebblepaw can’t cope yet, and Waspwhisker is still 
limping.” 

“Okay,” Blossomheart agreed, and added, “We all 
need Echosong to take a look at us.” 

The cats found a sheltered spot in the middle of a 
clump of hazel bushes, the bare earth covered with a 
thick layer of dead leaves. Once Waspwhisker and 
Pebblepaw were settled, Hawkwing slipped out and 
crept closer to the pool, his ears pricked and his jaws 
parted to pick up the first traces of prey. Blossomheart 
followed him, then veered off into a bank of ferns. 

As Hawkwing neared the pool he heard a plop, 
and spotted a vole swimming out into the center. 
Cautiously he crouched at the water’s edge and leaned 
over to spot a second vole poking its head out of a hole 
in the bank. Reaching down, Hawkwing fastened his 
claws into the back of the vole’s neck and hooked it 
upward; its high-pitched squeal of terror was cut off 
abruptly as he bit into its throat. 

Easy catch, he thought with satisfaction. 

Turning back toward their makeshift den, 
Hawkwing spotted Blossomheart emerging from the 
ferns with the body of a mouse dangling from her 


jaws. 

“Good job,’ Hawkwing mumbled around his own 
prey. “Let’s go eat.” 

Waspwhisker’s eyes gleamed in the dim light 
beneath the bushes when he saw the fresh-kill, but 
Pebblepaw merely glanced at it, then turned her head 
away. 

“You have to eat something,” Blossomheart urged 
her. 

Pebblepaw shook her head. Hawkwing had 
noticed that she had hardly touched food since the 
battle with the badgers. She was starting to look 
skinny; he could make out her ribs underneath her pelt. 

She wont thank me if I try to persuade her, he 
thought. Better leave it to Blossomheart. 

His sister took her mouse and set it down in front 
of Pebblepaw. “Come on, share this with me,” she 
urged her friend. “Look, it’s really fat and juicy. I can’t 
possibly eat all of it.” 

Pebblepaw stretched out her neck, sniffed the 
mouse, then took a tiny bite. “You can have the rest,” 
she mewed, turning away again. 

Hawkwing exchanged a glance with Blossomheart, 


knowing that there was no pomt in arguing with 
Pebblepaw anymore. We’ll get her to Echosong 
tomorrow, then she'll be better. 

He and Waspwhisker were sharing the vole when 
Hawkwing heard a sudden rustling outside the hazel 
clump. He stiffened and his neck fur rose. 

There's something out there! 

Turning in the direction of the sound, Hawkwing 
picked up the scent of a cat. Thank StarClan! At 
least its not a badger! he thought, feelng weak with 
relief. Their den was flooded with the scent of fresh- 
kill; that must have been why it had managed to get so 
close without alerting any of the patrol. 

Taking a deeper sniff of the scent, Hawkwing 
realized that there was a tang of Twolegs about it. 

“That's a kittypet,’ he whispered. “Stay here. I'll 
deal with it.” 

Whats a kittypet doing here? he wondered as he 
pushed his way out through the bushes. J didn t see a 
Twolegplace when we passed this way before. 

Standing on the grass outside was a fluffy-haired 
she-cat with pelt of orange, black, and white. She 
looked almost comical with a black patch over one eye 


and an orange patch over the other. Her fur was shiny 
and clean, and she wore a collar; a small gleaming 
thing dangled from it and made a tinkling sound like 
water drops as she turned her head to look at 
Hawkwing. 

“Hi,” she meowed cheerfully. “My name’s Betsy. 
What’s yours?” 

Hawkwing found it strange to hear a friendly 
voice; he and his Clanmates had been traveling in 
almost total silence. He was surprised too that a 
kittypet should sound so bold when confronted with a 
strange cat. 

“Im Hawkwing,” he replied warily. 

“And Pm Waspwhisker.” Hawkwing realized that 
his Clanmates had followed him out and were standing 
at his back. “These are Blossomheart and Pebblepaw. 
What's a kittypet doing so far away from the 
Twolegplace?” 

Betsy looked puzzled for a moment, as if she didn’t 
understand the question. Then she shrugged, and her 
gaze cleared. “My housefolk live over there.” She 
gestured with her tail, back toward the split tree, but in 
a different direction from the one the patrol had taken. 


“Anyway, I could ask you the same thing,’ she 
meowed. “What are you doing here?” 

Shes not scared of us at all, Hawkwing thought, 
feeling a twinge of admiration in spite of himself. And 
we must seem a fearsome lot to a kittypet! 

“Oh, we live a long way away,” he replied, 
deliberately not giving Betsy any details. / dont know 
who she is, and anyway it’s none of her business. 
“We're on a journey.” 

“Have you seen any other groups of cats hanging 
around here recently?” Waspwhisker asked, taking a 
pace forward to examine the kittypet more closely. 

Waspwhisker means the other Clans. Hawkwing 
was disappointed when Betsy shook her head. It 
would be great if we managed to find them after all 
... but it looks like they're not here. 

“Cats like you, you mean? No, certainly not,” 
Betsy answered. “No wild cats would make a home 
here, not with all those terrifying beasts around.” 

“Terrifying beasts?” Hawkwing asked, suppressing 
a shiver. 

“Yes,” Betsy continued. “I don’t know what 
they’re called, but they’re a bit like cats, only bigger, 


with pointed heads and huge teeth. You look as if 
you’ve met them already,’ she added, her gaze 
traveling over the Clan cats’ wounds. “You look a bit . 
. . battered.” 

“Those would be badgers,” Waspwhisker growled. 
“And yes, we had a difference of opinion with them. 
Tell us more—when did they move in?” 

“Oh, ages ago. They’ve been here for seasons and 
seasons,” Betsy replied. 

Waspwhisker twitched his whiskers in surprise, 
exchanging a glance with Hawkwing. “Really?” 

So why did Darktail think those dens were 
abandoned? Hawkwing wondered. 

“Oh, yes, this place is known for being full of 
them. There’s one nest in a clearing over there, with a 
stream running through it.” Betsy pointed with her 
nose, clearly indicating the place where the patrol had 
battled with the badgers. “And many more nests 
beyond that. I wouldn’t go that way if I were you.” 

“No, we're going the other way,” Blossomheart 
put in. “We”ve seen quite enough of the badgers, thank 
you very much.” 

“Good. Because those beasts would rip your fur 


off as soon as look at you.” Betsy’s eyes were 
stretched wide, and Hawkwing sensed that she was 
getting quite a thrill out of telling them about these 
horrors. Like we dont know about them for 
ourselves! “They’ve killed quite a few pets, so most 
housefolk don’t allow their cats outside.” 

“You ’re outside,” Hawkwing pointed out to Betsy. 

“Oh, Pm a bit reckless,” she confessed cheerfully. 
“No housefolk are going to keep me indoors. I’m good 
at sneaking, and I know to keep well clear of those 
beasts.” 

“Well, thank you for the warning,’ Hawkwing 
meowed. Even though we didnt need it, it was kind 
of her to come up to a bunch of strange cats to tell 
us about them. 

“You’re welcome.” Betsy licked one forepaw and 
drew it over her ear. “Well, Pd better be going. It’s 
about time for my housefolk to feed me. ’Bye!” 

“Good-bye!” Hawkwing called after her as she 
skirted the hazel bushes with a wave of her plumy tail, 
then streaked up the slope and was lost to sight over 
the hill. She might have made a good daylight 
warrior, he thought, surprising himself by feeling a hint 


of regret. 

“So the badgers have been there for seasons and 
seasons,” Waspwhisker muttered. “What was Darktail 
thinking of?” 

“Maybe they were asleep, or out hunting when he 
passed that way,” Blossomheart responded. 

Hawkwing flicked his tail-tip at his sister, but said 
nothing. She might want to think the best of every 
cat, but it was still a huge mistake for Darktail to 
make. For the first time Hawkwing felt a flicker of 
uneasiness when he thought about the strange rogue 
cat. Did he deliberately lead us into danger? he 
asked himself. Did he get Billystorm killed? Fury 
began to bubble up inside Hawkwing. What do we 
really know about Darktail? We invited him in so 
quickly. He slid out his claws, rustling the leaves 
beneath his paws. A terrible thought was taking root in 
his mind. 

Were we fools to trust Darktail? Was I a fool to 
bring him back into our camp? 





CHAPTER 8 
+ 


Sunhigh had just passed when the warriors 
approached the top of the gorge above the SkyClan 
camp. It was the third day since they had left the split 
tree where Billystorm was buried. The sun was shining 
and the air was warm, but even now that they were so 
close to home, their hearts were dark and cold. Once 
again they had traveled in almost total silence, and 
Hawkwing knew that every cat's grief for Billystorm 
was growing sharper as they drew nearer to the 
moment when they would have to tell the story to their 
Clanmates. 

I'd almost rather face the badgers again! 

Hawkwing felt especially sorry for Pebblepaw, 
who stumbled along in a daze, as if she was 
overwhelmed by mourning and her sense of guilt. 
Blossomheart padded alongside her, silently offering 
her sympathy and support. 

Hawkwing’s belly clenched at the thought that 
Leafstar was to be plunged into the same well of 
bottomless grief, and didn’t even know it yet. He 


remembered Cherrytail telling him how Leafstar had 
changed SkyClan’s warrior code that said a she-cat 
leader couldn’t have a mate or kits, so that she could 
be with Billystorm. She loves him so much. . . . Their 
kits, Stormheart, Harrybrook, and Firefern, would all be 
devastated, too. 

Billystorm was such an important part of 
SkyClan. I cant imagine how I’m going to find the 
words. 

He couldn’t stop thinking, too, about whether 
Darktail might have meant to lead them into danger. 
He had felt so hopeful when he had encountered 
Darktail at the site of the fire, believing that he was 
part of the prophecy. Now he saw how wrong he was, 
how he had unleashed an evil cat upon his Clan. 

I hope hes still living with the Clan. I want to 
talk to him face-to-face—and I'll find the words for 
him, all right! 

The patrol had just crossed the SkyClan border 
scent markers when Hawkwing heard paw steps 
ahead of them, and Rabbitleap, Plumwillow, and 
Nettlesplash emerged into the open, letting out loud 
caterwauls and hurling themselves at Waspwhisker. 


“Calm down, calm down,” Waspwhisker gasped, 
staggering under the force of his kits’ welcome. 
“You’re going to lick me to death!” 

Its a good thing Billystorms kits arent 
patrolling, Hawkwing thought. What would we say 
when they asked where their father is? All the 
questing cats had agreed that Leafstar had to be the 
first to know that her mate was dead. 

“Its great that you're safe!” Plumwillow 
exclaimed, her eyes shining. “Did you find the other 
Clans?” 

Waspwhisker shook his head. “No, we didn’t.” 

“And where’s Billystorm?” Nettlesplash added. 

To Hawkwing’s relief, Waspwhisker avoided the 
question. “We need to talk to Leafstar right away.” 

“Yes, you should do that,’ Rabbitleap meowed. 

Hawkwing noticed that once their first delight on 
seeing their father had ebbed away, all the cats in the 
patrol seemed somber, and were exchanging uneasy 
glances with each other. 

What’ the matter with them? he wondered. Are 
they still sad about Duskpaw? Are they worried 
because Billystorm isnt with us? Or has something 


else bad happened? 

Apprehension gathered inside Hawkwing like a 
heavy fog as he wondered whether his last question 
might be close to the truth. The border patrol 
continued, and Waspwhisker led the way to the edge 
of the cliff and down into the camp. 

As he descended the trail behind his Clanmates, 
Hawkwing realized that there were far fewer cats out 
and about in the camp than he was used to. 

“Where is every cat?” Blossomheart asked, 
echoing his thought. 

No cat answered her, and Hawkwing’s 
apprehension deepened. 

Waspwhisker headed first to Leafstar’s den, but 
the Clan leader wasn’t there, so he and the other 
questing cats continued down the trail As they 
reached the bottom of the gorge, Hawkwmg caught a 
whiff of a scent that was strange and familiar at the 
same time. 

I dont know what animal left that, he thought, 
pausing to drink in the air and try to identify the scent. 
But I’ve smelled it somewhere before. 

Then Hawkwing remembered. It was the same 


scent that he and Ebonyclaw had picked up on the 
border, on the day that Duskpaw died. Did something 
happen here? Was that animal somehow involved? 

Dismay swept over Hawkwing as he realized that 
he had never reported the strange scent to Leafstar. 
Right after he and Ebonyclaw had noticed it, they had 
smelled the fire, and then Duskpaw’s death had driven 
everything else out of his mind. Did Ebonyclaw 
report it? Hawkwing guessed not. 

With an effort Hawkwing brought himself back to 
the present, and spotted Patchfoot crouching beside 
the stream, leaning over to lap the swirling water. 
Waspwhisker led the way toward him. 

“Hi, Patchfoot,” the gray-and-white tom meowed. 
“Have you seen Leafstar?” 

Patchfoot looked up, shaking water droplets from 
his whiskers. “Yes, she’s in Echosong’s den. It’s good 
to see you back,” he added, though Hawkwing felt that 
he too seemed in a somber mood, not at all like his 
usual cheerful self. 

Something is seriously wrong here. 

As he and the rest of the patrol headed toward the 
medicine cats’ den, Hawkwing felt his paw land on 


something strange. Glancing down, he saw a thing like 
a leaf wrap, but made of something thin and shiny, in 
garish colors. He bent his head to sniff it, and picked 
up the scent of Twoleg food. 

For a moment Hawkwing was overwhelmed with 
memories of Duskpaw. He loved Twoleg food so 
much! But then he began to ask himself questions. 
Whats a Twoleg food wrap doing here? Have 
Twolegs been in the camp? Or did it blow over 
here? Maybe the fire dislodged some old Twoleg 
food scraps. . . . But Hawkwing couldn't find any 
answers to his questions. There was no good reason 
for the Twoleg food wrap to be in their camp. 

Waspwhisker and the others had continued on, and 
Hawkwing ran to catch up to them as they reached 
Echosong’s den. On entering, he was shocked to see 
that Echosong was lying in her nest, injured; there was 
a fresh notch on one of her ears and cobweb was 
wrapped around one of her forelegs. Her apprentice, 
Frecklewish, was giving her a drink from a bundle of 
wet moss, while Leafstar bent over her, talking quietly. 

“Echosong!” Blossomheart exclaimed. “What 
happened to you?” 


Echosong paused in lapping the moss and feebly 
lifted her head. ‘TIl be fine, really.” 

“Echosong was wounded,” Leafstar added, “but 
she’s healing well, and Frecklewish is taking good care 
of her.” 

The Clan leader’s voice was deeply serious, and 
Hawkwing wondered if she already knew the terrible 
news they had to tell Maybe because she and 
Billystorm were so close, she could sense that 
something had happened to him. But no, thats not 
possible... is it? 

Hawkwing’s heart began to thump harder and 
harder as he braced himself to tell Leafstar that her 
mate was dead. It felt even more difficult now that he 
had to look her in the face. But before he could find 
words, his Clan leader spoke again. 

“Come outside with me,” she mewed with a wave 
of her tail. “There’s something I need to tell you.” 

Hawkwing and the rest of the patrol followed 
Leafstar into the open and clustered around her to 
listen. Hawkwing could see from the others’ uneasy 
glances that they shared his apprehension about what 
had happened in their absence. 


“While you were on your quest,’ Leafstar began, 
“the camp was attacked by a group of animals.” 

“Badgers?” Blossomheart asked. 

Leafstar shook her head. “Not badgers. None of 
us had ever seen anything like these creatures.” 

“What were they like?” Hawkwing asked. 

“They were black, white, and gray, with black 
around their eyes and white around their muzzles,” 
Leafstar replied. “They walk on four legs like we do, 
but they can stand on their hind paws like a Twoleg. 
And they can grip things like a Twoleg, with their front 
and back paws. Their ears are like ours, but they have 
short, pointed muzzles like a fox.” She ended with a 
shudder. “They’re very vicious.” 

“Is that how Echosong was hurt?” Waspwhisker 
asked. 

“Yes. Harveymoon was injured as well.” 

Hawkwing felt even worse. “This is awful,’ he 
stammered. “It must have been their scent that 
Ebonyclaw and I smelled on the day of the fire. And I 
forgot to report it! I’m so sorry.” 

Leafstar touched her tail to his shoulder 
reassuringly. “Don’t dwell on it,’ she murmured. 


“Every cat knows why you didn’t remember. Besides, 
Ebonyclaw did report it, and it didn’t make any 
difference. There was no way we could have 
prevented this attack.” 

“So where’s Harveymoon?” Pebblepaw asked. 
“Why isn’t he in the medicine cat den? Is he okay?” 

“Yes, he’ll be fine,” Leafstar replied. “But he’s 
with his Twolegs now, and we haven’t seen him since. 
In fact, most of our daylight warriors’ Twolegs have 
been keeping them inside their dens since the strange 
animals moved into the territory.” 

Just like Betsy said, with the badgers, 
Hawkwing thought. And that means we ’ll have to do 
without our daylight warriors. 

“And that’s not all” Leafstar went on, her voice 
beginning to shake. “During the attack, Honeytail was 
killed.” 

“No!” Blossomheart choked out. 

Hawkwing felt a sudden chill, cold creepmg over 
him right down to his pads. Honeytail, the gentle ginger 
she-cat who loved caring for kits, and lived in the 
nursery to help with them and the nursing queens. / 
cant believe this! First Duskpaw, then Billystorm, 


and now Honeytail! 

“We held a vigil for her while you were away on 
your quest,” Leafstar continued. “We’ll show you 
where she’s buried, so you can pay your last 
respects.” She paused, clearly giving them all a little 
time to process their grief for Honeytail. “PI ask you 
about your quest later,” she went on at last, “and then 
PI hear all the details. But for now, just tell me this: 
Did you find the cats you were looking for?” 

Hawkwing expected Waspwhisker to speak, as the 
senior warrior, but the gray-and-white tom was silent, 
staring down at the ground. When the silence had 
dragged out for a few heartbeats, Hawkwing took a 
breath. “There’s something we need to tell you,” he 
began, each word forced slowly out of him as his heart 
began to break for his leader. 

Leafstar gazed into his eyes. Then her expression 
suddenly took on a terrible alertness, as if she was 
really seeing them for the first time since they arrived. 
“Where is Billystorm?” she asked, her voice hollow. 

The questing cats were all silent except for 
Pebblepaw, who let out a tiny strangled cry. And 
Hawkwing could see from Leafstar’s eyes, which 


suddenly became deep and dark with grief, that she 
already understood. “I’m so sorry, Leafstar,’ he 
meowed. “Badgers killed him. He died the death of a 
brave warrior.” 

For a moment Leafstar stood still, frozen with 
shock. Then she drew in a deep, shuddering breath and 
turned away. “No,” she whispered, her voice quiet, 
sounding almost like a kit. A shiver passed through her, 
and Hawkwing knew that her heart must be breaking. 
She loved Billystorm so much. 

“Why are all these terrible things happening to us 
all at once?” she demanded. Her voice was raw, and 
she didn’t look at any of her Clanmates, as if she was 
challenging StarClan for answers. “The strange 
animals who attacked . . . the failed quest . . . the fire. 
Is it because we haven’t found ‘the spark that 
remains’?” 

Leafstar fell silent, then after no more than a 
couple of heartbeats she turned back. Hawkwing could 
see that she was pushing everything down, and 
summoning every scrap of her self-control. He knew 
that what was most important to her was to be a 
strong leader for her Clan, in this dark time when death 


seemed to be all around them. 

“We must call a Clan meeting,” she mewed, her 
voice level. “We must decide what to do now. We 
must work out how to ‘dispel the darkness.’ It’s our 
only hope.” 





CHAPTER 9 
+ 


Hawkwing padded over to the foot of the Rockpile 
to join the rest of his Clanmates. Leafstar’s voice as 
she called the meeting still rang in his ears, and he 
marveled at the strength and authority she was 
showing. 

We've just told her that her mate is dead, and 
that he’s been buried far from camp, somewhere 
she might never find, yet here she is, gathering her 
warriors around her. 

Hawkwing realized that Leafstar must be grieving 
for Billystorm every bit as much as he grieved for 
Duskpaw, but she was forcing herself to be strong for 
the rest of her Clan. 

News of the failure of the quest and of 
Billystorm’s death must have traveled, for sadness 
filled the air like fog as the warriors gathered, and no 
cat could look up at the Rockpile to meet Leafstar’s 
gaze. Instead, they crouched at the foot of the 
boulders, their eyes fixed on their paws, or exchanged 
glances of bewilderment and fear. Firefern, 


Stormheart, and Harrybrook, the kits of Leafstar and 
Billystorm, huddled together as if they were trying to 
find comfort in each other. 

“Disaster has fallen upon SkyClan,” the Clan 
leader began, “but we must not allow it to crush us. 
We must still find ‘the spark that remains.’ If we give 
up our quest now, we dishonor the memory of the cats 
who have died for that quest. There is still a prophecy 
that we must fulfill, And now we know only too well 
that there is still darkness to be dispelled.” 

“But how are we going to do that?” Nettlesplash 
asked. 

“Yes,” Mintfur, Nettlesplash’s mate, agreed, 
ruffling up her gray tabby fur. “The quest failed, so 
maybe that’s a sign that we mistook the meaning of the 
prophecy. Maybe we shouldn't be looking for 
Firestar’s kin after all.” 

“No!” Cherrytail sprang to her paws, glaring at 
Mintfur. “Echosong has never been that wrong 
before.” 

So far Hawkwing had sat in silence, keeping his 
thoughts to himself, but now he couldn’t stop himself 
from speaking. “Let’s not forget that we weren’t only 


following Echosong’s advice,” he meowed. “She may 
well have been right, but it was some other cat who 
told us where to go, to find Firestar’s kin.” 

As he spoke, every cat turned to look in the same 
direction. Following their gaze, Hawkwing spotted 
Darktail settled comfortably in the shadow of a rock, 
his paws tucked under him. 

So he is still living here! he thought, suppressing a 
gasp. 

“Hawkwmg!” Sharpclaw spoke commandingly 
from his place on the Rockpile at Leafstar’s side. “If 
you want to make an accusation, consider carefully 
before you speak. Darktail has been living among us 
since you left, and he was a huge help when the beasts 
attacked us. He fought valiantly.” 

Hawkwing rose to his paws and faced his father. 
In spite of Sharpclaw’s words, something encouraging 
in his voice suggested that the Clan deputy might agree 
with him—or at least that he wanted Darktail’s 
involvement brought out into the open. 

“ÉI have considered carefully,’ Hawkwing 
responded. “In fact, I’ve thought of very little else 
since Billystorm died. Darktail’s directions were all 


wrong, and they got Billystorm killed.” 

Fury rising inside him, Hawkwing marched over to 
Darktail, other cats scrambling to get out of his way. 
He halted in front of the white tom, thrusting out his 
neck until they were nose to nose. “Did you know 
about the badgers?” he hissed. “I’d hate to think you 
led us deliberately into danger—but it sure looks like 
you did! Why would you do that, to cats you don’t 
even know?” 

Behind him, Hawkwing could hear low murmuring 
from his Clanmates. One or two of them let out angry 
yowls, echoing his questions. 

Darktail was not at all daunted by Hawkwing’s 
attack or the hostility of the other SkyClan cats. Rising 
to his paws, he dipped his head respectfully to 
Leafstar. There was an expression of deep sorrow on 
his face. 

“Leafstar, you can’t imagine how bad I feel about 
this,” he meowed. “I really thought I had it right, and I 
can’t believe what happened.” 

Sharpclaw let out a snort. “You really can’t tell 
fresh scent from stale?” he demanded, green eyes 
flashing with anger. “What were you thinking? You 


could have gotten all the patrol killed.” 

“I know. It was all a mistake.” Darktail’s 
expression was deeply distressed. “It’s been a while 
since I passed through there, and I must have been 
confused. I was only trying to help.” 

As he spoke, Hawkwing could sense that the 
hostility of some of his Clanmates was turning to 
sympathy in the face of Darktail’s obvious regret. 

“Hawkwing, don’t be too hard on him,” Sandynose 
meowed. “If he made an honest mistake, then we have 
to put Billystorm’s death down to fate.” 

“Sandynose is right,” Mistfeather agreed. “Darktail 
fought so bravely when the strange creatures attacked 
our camp. Why would he do that if he wanted to hurt 
us?” 

Hawkwing couldn’t believe what he was hearing. 
“Fate?” he sputtered, his shoulder fur bristling. “You 
think this is fate? How could it be fate for badgers to 
kill Billystorm? How could it be fate for Duskpaw to 
die in a fire?” 

While he was speaking, Leafstar stepped forward 
and looked down at him from the Rockpile. Her 
expression was stern, but not angry, as if she 


understood the feelings that were flooding through him. 

“Hawkwmg, I can tell that you're still grieving for 
your brother. And it’s hard to think clearly through the 
fog of sorrow. I know that as well as any cat.” 

His leader’s words did nothing to calm Hawkwing. 
Instead, even greater outrage flamed through him, 
fierce as the fire that had killed his brother. “That is 
not what this is about!” he snarled. “We shouldn’t just 
assume that it's fate when something bad happens. 
This time, the bad thing happened when Darktail sent 
our patrol right into the path of a nest of badgers!” 

Darktail pressed himself against Hawkwing’s 
flank. “I truly believed the badgers had moved on,” he 
mewed, sounding genuinely remorseful. “I didn’t know 
the beasts could be that sneaky.” 

As more of his Clanmates murmured their 
sympathy and agreement, Hawkwing stepped away 
from Darktail with an angry glare. “We met a kittypet 
who told us that the badgers had lived there for 
seasons,” he challenged the white tom. “If a kittypet 
knows that, why didn’t you? And she told us that there 
were no Clan cats anywhere near there.” 

Darktail’s eyes widened, his expression innocent 


and bewildered. “I only told you what I thought was 
true,” he responded. “T don’t know this kittypet, and I 
can’t explain her words.” 

“You can’t trust a kittypet to know what she’s 
meowing about,” Bouncefire put in. “Why bother, 
when your food bowl will be filled anyway?” 

Hawkwing glared at Bouncefire, his lips drawn 
back in the beginnings of a snarl. “Even if it was an 
accident, it was still your stupid fault,’ he hissed at 
Darktail. 

I wish I’d never brought Darktail to camp, he 
added silently to himself. If I’d left him where I found 
him, Billystorm would still be alive. 

Darktail’s head drooped and he cringed as if 
Hawkwing’s words had hurt him. “I’m so sorry... ,” 
he whispered. 

“I believe Darktail” Bouncefire announced, 
returning Hawkwing’s glare. He raised his voice so all 
the warriors could hear him. “What cat would be so 
evil as to lead strange cats into a badger den? We only 
just met him; it doesn’t make sense that he would hold 
a grudge against us.” 

Leafstar dipped her head to Bouncefire. “I agree. I 


have lost more than any cat, and I too believe it was an 
accident.” Raising her head to gaze at the sky, she 
continued, “What in StarClan is happening? Why is all 
this misfortune falling on us now? Not just the badgers, 
but those strange-scented foxlike creatures, too... . 
what did you say they were called, Darktail?” 

“Raccoons,” Darktail replied. Turning to 
Hawkwing, he added, “I told this to Leafstar and the 
others after the attack. Twolegs sometimes keep them 
as pets, but some of them escaped, and now they live 
in the wild.” 

“How do you know that?” Hawkwing asked 
suspiciously. 

“I picked up their scent on the way here, and I 
asked some kittypets about them,” Darktail explained. 

“Whatever they are called,” Leafstar went on, 
“let's hope we have driven them off for good. We have 
other problems to deal with. Darktail, I believe you 
meant no harm, but the sad fact is that we’re no 
nearer to finding ‘the spark that remains.” Maybe 
StarClan will send us a clearer prophecy soon.” 

Hawkwing’s belly churned with anger. Why arent 
we driving this rogue away? We never trust 


outsiders this easily. He supposed it must be because 
Darktail had fought bravely during the raccoon attack. 
But I still don t trust him. 

“I understand what you're saying, Leafstar,” 
Sharpclaw meowed when the Clan leader had finished 
speaking. “Darktail may have had dark motives, or he 
may not. But it's still a huge risk for the Clan to put our 
faith m cats we don't know.” 

Hawkwing was relieved that his father seemed to 
share his suspicions of Darktail, but a moment later his 
relief faded away as Leafstar refused to change her 
opinion. 

“I won't turn Darktail out without proof that he 
meant to harm SkyClan,” she insisted. “Besides, he is 
the only cat among us who might know where ‘the 
spark that remains’ might be. StarClan wants us to 
follow the prophecy, and they don’t send us messages 
that aren’t important.” 

Hawkwing flexed his claws in and out. He knew 
that he should keep his jaws shut, that it wasn’t his 
place to argue with his Clan leader, but he couldn’t 
stop the words from spilling out. 

“Leafstar, this is a bad idea. This cat is not one of 


SkyClan,” he added, staring straight at Darktail. “He 
doesn’t understand what it means to be a Clan cat.” 

“Come on, that’s a bit harsh,’ Sandynose 
protested. 

“Yes,” Bouncefire added. “Not every good cat is 
born to a Clan. Even Firestar used to be a kittypet, for 
StarClan's sake!” 

Hawkwing's fury was rising. He didn’t want to 
listen to any cat. Are they all too stupid to realize 
that this rogue could destroy us all? “I say we drive 
him out now!” he snarled. 

A chorus of protest rose from the cats clustering 
around him and Darktail, but before Leafstar could 
silence the clamor there was a stir of movement at the 
back of the crowd, and Frecklewish thrust a path 
through her Clanmates to the foot of the Rockpile. 

“Leafstar—” she began breathlessly. 

Leafstar was instantly alert, her ears pricking 
forward as she looked down at the young medicine 
cat. “Has something happened to Echosong?” she 
asked anxiously. 

Frecklewish shook her head. “She's still alive— 
she’s fine. But she just had a vision.” 


“Another one?” Leafstar’s voice was sharp. 
“What was it?” 

“She saw a fire burning out, then blazing up again,” 
Frecklewish explained, managing to catch her breath. 
“But her voice was strained as she told me about it. 
She insists that SkyClan must find ‘the spark that 
remains’. . . before it’s lost forever.” 

The angry argument had died away while 
Frecklewish was speaking, and all the cats looked 
expectantly toward their leader. Hawkwing was the 
first to speak. 

“Now we know that our destiny is still out there,” 
he meowed. “We should never have listened to 
Darktail. What does he know about StarClan?” 

Leafstar was unimpressed. “Let go of your anger, 
Hawkwing,” she told him. “This is the time to focus on 
our next move.” 

“Should we try to find Barley now?” Bellapaw 
asked. “He might be able to tell us where the Clan cats 
are. At least we know hes trustworthy,” she finished 
with an awkward glance at Darktail. 

Thats a good suggestion, Hawkwing thought at 
the mention of Barley, the farm cat who had come 


with Ravenpaw to bring Bellapaw and her brother 
Rileypaw to SkyClan. He would never lead us 
wrong. 

The white tom dipped his head toward Bellapaw, a 
thoughtful look in his eyes. “I understand why you 
might be doubtful,’ he meowed in response. “Even 
though I was wrong about the directions, I still believe 
I know where the Clan cats are, and I can save you a 
lot of time if you trust me again. I just need to think of 
a better way to get there.” 

“Suppose we send out another questing patrol,” 
Firefern suggested, her eyes brightening as she gazed 
at her mother up on the Rockpile. “They could look for 
‘the spark that remains,’ and bring Darktail along to 
guide them.” 

“No! I’m against that,’ Sharpclaw snorted with a 
flick of his tail. “What if the vision isn’t telling us to go 
anywhere to find sparks to dispel darkness, but rather 
warning us to be alert? What if a danger is coming to 
SkyClan? If you ask me, we should strengthen our 
borders as much as we can, before it’s too late.” 

Hawkwing’s anger rose again as he listened to his 
father’s cautious advice. Before he could stop himself, 


he let out a derisive growl. 

Sharpclaw’s head swiveled to face him. “Show 
some respect!” he hissed. 

“I do respect you!” Hawkwing protested. “But I 
disagree with you over this. We have to go out and 
find our destiny.” 

Sharpclaw rolled his eyes. “You make me wonder 
if we made you a warrior too soon,” he snapped. 
“You’re showing all the maturity of a kit.” 

If Sharpclaw hadn’t been standing on the Rockpile, 
Hawkwing might have leaped at him, claws extended. 
But his anger had to burst out somehow, even though 
he knew he should control himself in front of his leader 
and his Clan. “I’m not a kit!” he yowled. “T survived a 
quest Billystorm couldn’t!” 

“That’s enough!” Leafstar stepped forward, her 
amber eyes blazing with fury. “You might be a warrior 
now,” she told Hawkwing, every word forced out 
through her teeth, “but you should still know your 
place. You’re no good to the Clan if all you do is 
disrupt our important meetings, and make them all 
about you.” 

Hawkwing took a step back, daunted by Leafstar’s 


anger; she was normally so calm and controlled. J wish 
I hadnt mentioned Billystorm. That was a cruel 
thing to say to Leafstar. 

“Tm sorry—” he began. 

“Sorry” catches no prey,” Leafstar snapped. “I’m 
trying to work out how to keep my Clan strong and 
healthy, and you’re getting in the way. You’re being 
disruptive, and I won’t put up with that.” 

Instinctively Hawkwing glanced at Sharpclaw, 
expecting that his father would back him up, or at least 
defend him. But Sharpclaw was looking just as stern 
as their Clan leader. 

“You need to hold on to your temper,” he told 
Hawkwing. “It’s too short—the kind that can get cats 
into trouble.” 

“T know just the thing to calm you down,” Leafstar 
mewed, her eyes glittering. “You can go and tend to 
Echosong in the medicine cat den. Keep her clear of 
ticks, and sort through her herbs to throw out any that 
are shriveled or rotting.” 

Hawkwing let out a moan, staring at his paws. 
Thats a job for an apprentice! 

“Well?” Leafstar asked icily. “Why are you still 


here?” 

“What?” Hawkwing asked, briefly confused. 
“Don't I even get to stay for the rest of the meeting?” 

“The meeting is over, as far as you’re concerned.” 
Leafstar swept her tail in the direction of the medicine 
cat den. “Leave,” she ordered. “Your punishment 
starts right now.” 

Feeling every cat’s gaze upon him, Hawkwing 
stumbled off after Frecklewish. Every hair on his pelt 
was burning with shame. 

How did that go so wrong? 





CHAPTER 10 
+ 


Hawkwing stood in the medicine cats” den, sorting 
through Echosong's herb stores. It was the morning 
after the Clan meeting, and already his punishment 
seemed to have stretched out for moons. 

Sticky juices from the rotting herbs clung to his 
paws. They stink! he thought resentfully. And they ’ll 
taste vile when I try to wash my paws. I'll never get 
clean! 

The shriveled herbs were no better. They crumbled 
under Hawkwing’s paws, littering the floor of the den 
with dust and scraps. And I know which cat will get 
the “privilege” of cleaning that up! 

“What's wrong, Hawkwing?” Echosong, still 
resting in her nest, raised her head and gazed at him 
with compassionate green eyes. 

Hawkwing huffed out a breath. 7 told Echosong 
why I’m being punished, he thought. So why does 
she need to ask? 

“I know I shouldn’t have challenged Leafstar at 
the meeting,” he admitted. “But I’m annoyed that I’m 


being punished while that traitor Darktail is still stalking 
around camp as if he owns the place! It wasn’t my 
interpretation of your vision that sent us on a fool’s 
quest and got Billystorm killed. It was that rogue 
Darktait—he should be the one doing the gross 
duties.” He gave a lash of his tail. “In fact, he 
shouldn’t even be in camp at all. He doesn’t belong 
with this Clan—he’s not one of us.” 

As he spoke, Echosong was looking thoughtful. 
“True, I was not expecting fate’s claw to be so 
treacherous this time,” she responded. “But any cat 
can make a mistake, and I have to believe that 
StarClan brought Darktail to us for a reason.” 

“What reason?” Hawkwing challenged her. 

“I don’t know,” she conceded with a nod of her 
head. “But just because we can’t work out what it is 
yet doesn’t mean the reason isn’t there. We have to 
search for it, that’s all.” 

Hawkwing’s anger eased a little at the medicine 
cat’s wise words, but a moment later he had to 
suppress a growl of annoyance as Darktail strode into 
the medicine cats’ den. 

“What do you want?” Hawkwing demanded. 


“Have you come to rub it in, that our Clan leader took 
your side?” 

Darktail dipped his head low. “I really didn’t mean 
for any cat to suffer,’ he mewed. “Not Billystorm, and 
not you. I understand that you’re angry, but I promise 
you, once you’ve calmed down, you’ll see that I meant 
no harm. You need the pain in your heart to pass, that’s 
all.” 

“What do you know about pain?” Hawkwing 
snarled. You didnt lose a brother, he thought. You 
dont understand what Billystorm meant to this 
Clan. 

Darktail heaved a long sigh and sat down beside 
Hawkwing, wrapping his tail around his paws. “You 
have no idea... ,” he murmured. Hawkwing paused, 
curious. At first, Hawkwing thought he would say no 
more, but after a long silence he started to speak 
again. “I had a friend . . . he was not kin to me, but we 
were brought up together as kits. We did everything 
together, for many, many moons. Then, one long, hard 
leaf-bare, when prey was scarce, he got weaker and 
weaker. . . .” Darktail’s voice quivered; he broke off 
again, then choked out, “Then he died.” 


“Pm sorry,” Hawkwing mewed, feeling a pang of 
guilt that he had been so dismissive of Darktail’s 
feelings. 7 still dont trust him, but that must have 
been terrible. 

“If we had lived in a Clan, my friend might still be 
alive,” Darktail continued. “You all take care of each 
other. That's why I’m so grateful to SkyClan for taking 
me in. And especially grateful to you”—he dipped his 
head respectfully to Hawkwing— “because you spoke 
up for me when some of the others weren’t too keen 
on bringing in a rogue. I promise PI repay the faith you 
showed me then.” 

Curiosity stirred inside Hawkwing, so that his 
anger toward the white rogue began to ebb a little. 
“How do you plan to do that?” he asked. 

‘Tve volunteered to lead a new quest,” Darktail 
replied. “To show that I’m serious about helping 
SkyClan to find the spark that remains.” 

“Thats your plan to fix things?” Hawkwing’s 
anger surged up again, and he put all the derision he 
could into the words. “You nearly got us killed on the 
last quest. Why should we trust you?” 

“Because this time I’m putting my pelt in danger,” 


Darktail replied, an edge to his voice. “If I’m leading 
the quest, I’ll share in any hazards we face. Besides, 
I’ve made contact with a friend of mine—a cat named 
Rain. He’ll come on the quest with us, and give us 
more guidance.” 

Hawkwing wasn’t sure about that. Another 
rogue? Another cat we’ve never heard of, and 
shouldnt trust! But before he could voice a protest, 
he remembered how he had tried to get Darktail driven 
out at the Clan meeting. And look where that got me! 

He shrugged. “Fine. So go, then.” 

Darktail seemed unoffended by Hawkwing’s curt 
response. “I know that I owe you a debt,” he meowed. 
“You were kind enough to bring me into the Clan, and 
then I put you in danger—even though that was the 
last thing I wanted. But Pm going to make it up to 
you.” 

Yeah, right. Hawkwing flicked his ears. “How?” 

“I'm going to go to Leafstar and insist that you're 
allowed to come along on this next quest. I’ve talked to 
Rain,” he went on rapidly, before Hawkwing could 
respond, “and I think I’ve figured out where my 
directions went wrong. So now I know where we need 


to go! And I want you there, Hawkwing, because I 
think you deserve to be part of the group that finds the 
spark that remains and dispels the darkness. You 
should be part of the group that saves SkyClan.” 

A mixture of emotions rushed over Hawkwing, like 
a river in spate that threatened to carry him off his 
paws. He was annoyed that Darktail had been named 
leader of a quest. He 5 only been here for a couple 
of heartbeats! But along with that anger came doubt. 
Why would Darktail offer to lead us himself if he 
meant to do us harm? 

Even stronger than both these feelings was pride 
that Darktail would honor him in this way, and vouch 
for him to his Clan leader, especially after all 
Hawkwing had said to him at the meeting. 

Unsure how to respond, Hawkwing looked toward 
Echosong for guidance, but the medicine cat was 
curled up in her nest, letting out gentle snores with her 
tail over her nose. 

“Well, I don't think you'll be able to persuade 
Leafstar,” Hawkwing told Darktail as the deflating 
thought came to him. /'m sure she is still upset with 
me. “I’ve been too quick to lose my temper lately. 


That’s what put me in here,’ he added, gesturing 
toward the pile of herbs with his tail. “When I’m angry, 
I get hot-headed and make rash decisions. That 
wouldn’t be good on a quest.” 

Darktail huffed out a breath, half contemptuous, 
half amused. “I don’t agree. The cat with a temper, the 
cat who’s the quickest to swipe a claw, is often the cat 
most likely to survive. Being a bit hot-headed, a bit 
impulsive, makes you a great asset to your Clan. You 
should never forget that, Hawkwing.” 

As the white tom spoke, Hawkwing found his 
feelings, still bruised from his father’s scolding the day 
before, gradually soothed. Maybe Darktail has a 
point. And maybe, if I’m allowed to go on this 
quest, I can prove that I am an asset to my Clan, 
hot temper and all! 


Sunhigh had almost arrived by the time Hawkwing 
had finished his tasks in the medicine cats’ den. 
Leaving Echosong still sleeping, he padded out into the 
camp and headed toward the fresh-kill pile. He noticed 
that the hunting patrols had returned, and most of his 
Clanmates were clustered around the prey. 

Hmm... its nota massive pile, but it looks as if 


we'll all get fed. 

Hawkwing had joined the others, and chosen a 
blackbird for himself, before he spotted a stranger in 
the camp, a handsome gray tom who was standing 
beside Darktail. 

“This is Rain,’ Darktail meowed, dipping his head 
with the deepest respect to Leafstar and Sharpclaw, 
who stood in front of him, eyeing the newcomer warily. 
“He’s been living close by, but he hasn’t tried to cross 
your borders until now.” 

“Just as well,’ Sharpclaw growled, sliding out his 
claws and inspecting Rain through narrowed green 
eyes. 

“He would never do that,’ Darktail assured the 
Clan leader and her deputy. “And I would never even 
think of bringing a new rogue to stay in SkyClan’s 
camp. It’s not my place to do that, not without 
permission.” 

“So why is he here?” Leafstar asked, her even 
tone giving nothing away of how she felt. 

“Rain thinks he knows where the Clan cats are 
living,” Darktail explained. “And he’s willing to come 
on the quest to help find them.” 


“I'm happy to do what I can,” Rain added with a 
polite nod. 

“Then thank you, Rain,” Leafstar mewed, warmth 
creeping into her voice. “You’re welcome to our 
camp.” 

Hawkwing paused in gulping down his blackbird, 
wondering whether Darktail had really meant what he 
had said earlier in the medicine cats’ den. His belly 
started to churn with anxiety. 

“There's one more thing, Leafstar,” Darktail 
continued. “I wondered if you would allow Hawkwing 
to come on this next quest with us.” 

“Hawkwing?” Leafstar sounded doubtful. “He’s 
still being punished for the way he behaved at the 
meeting.” 

“I know.” Darktail twitched his whiskers. “But 
he’s a good, strong cat, and very brave. There are so 
many dangers out there, beyond the borders of your 
territory, that I think it would be a good idea to have a 
cat with us who doesn’t hesitate to fight.” 

“He has a point.” Leafstar leaned across to 
murmur into Sharpclaw’s ear. 

“It will be for the good of the Clan to let him 


come,” Darktail went on, obviously encouraged by 
Leafstar’s comment. “What better way for him to 
make up for losing his temper at the meeting, than to 
help his Clan find the spark that remains and dispel the 
darkness?” 

Leafstar glanced around until she spotted 
Hawkwing, who tried to look as if he hadn’t been 
listening the whole time. By now he was so excited 
that his belly was churning even harder, and he was 
afraid that he might throw up the prey he had just 
eaten. 

Leafstar gazed thoughtfully at Hawkwing for so 
long that he had to clamp his jaws firmly together to 
stop himself from telling her to hurry up and decide. 

“Very well” she mewed at last. “I guess 
Hawkwing can go.” 

“Really?” Hawkwing’s father Sharpclaw turned an 
incredulous look on his Clan leader. “You’re going to 
reward that hot-headed young mouse-brain for arguing 
with you in front of the whole Clan? Is it really the best 
idea to send a cat who can’t control himself?” 

Despite himself, Hawkwing felt a hot blaze of 
anger, and had to clamp his jaws shut to bite back a 


sharp protest. He had to turn away to hide from every 
cat how furious he was. J dont want to react to 
being called hot-headed by acting even more hot- 
headed . . . but it isnt fair! Why does Sharpclaw 
have to ruin everything? 

“DP ve made my decision, Sharpclaw,” Leafstar 
meowed firmly. 

Hawkwing glanced up, too nervous to hope. / 
know she wont let me go—not after Sharpclaw’s 
rant. 

Leafstar looked down at him, her even gaze 
revealing nothing. “Hawkwing will go on this quest.” 

Hawkwing’s anger ebbed away like rain sinking 
into parched earth. J can go! I can go on the quest, 
and help find the spark that remains! He thought 
again of the other Clans—how exciting it would be to 
meet other cats who lived like SkyClan. It was all he 
could do not to break into a happy, self-satisfied purr. 


The sun had set, and shadows stretched across the 
gorge. As Hawkwing headed toward his den, thinking 
longingly of his comfortable nest, he spotted Sharpclaw 
padding determinedly toward him. 

What does he want? Hawkwing wondered 


nervously. 

He halted to wait for his father. “Don’t start 
complainng or arguing!” he burst out, before 
Sharpclaw had the chance to say a word. He knew it 
wasn’t advisable to speak to his father this way, but he 
just couldn't stomach another lecture. Not while he 
was still glowing from their leader’s announcement. 
“Leafstar has decided, and I’m going, whether you’re 
happy about it or not.” 

“Pm not happy about it,” Sharpclaw admitted, his 
eyes narrowing, “but maybe not for the reason you 
think. One day, Hawkwing, when you have kits of your 
own, you'll know what it feels like to almost lose 
them.” 

What does that mean? “Don’t you think I can 
look after myself?” Hawkwing retorted, a growl in his 
voice. “You're talking like a queen in the nursery—but 
I’m not a kit anymore. I’m a warrior!” 

Sharpclaw nodded, unexpectedly serious. “I know 
that. But I can still be worried about you, Hawkwing. 
I’ve been talking to Cherrytail about this,” he mewed. 
“Do you think you might have become too reckless 
since Duskpaw died?” 


Hawkwing was already on edge, and the mention 
of his brother made his self-control snap. Just when I 
finally feel like I dont have to feel guilty every 
moment . . . “I don’t want to hear about Duskpaw 
anymore!” he spat. 

Sharpclaw’s green eyes widened in a mixture of 
shock and dismay. He stared at Hawkwing in silence 
for several heartbeats before he spoke again. “How 
can you want to forget your own brother?” he asked 
incredulously. 

“That's not what I meant—” Hawkwing began, 
horrified that Sharpclaw believed he could ever feel 
that way, but his father had already spun around and 
begun to walk away. 

Watching his father’s retreating back, Hawkwing 
felt claws of guilt grip around his heart. Of course I'm 
not trying to forget Duskpaw. I didnt mean it like 
that! Did I? 

He searched his heart, and realized no, he didn’t. 
He never wanted to forget Duskpaw, his silliest 
littermate, who had always been able to make him 
smile. All he had wanted was to push away the painful 
memories, and not always think about how much he 


was missing his brother. But Sharpclaw hadn’t given 
him a chance to explain. 

Hawkwing hung his head, despair clouding out the 
happy glow he’d felt at Leafstar’s decision. 

Whatever the rest of the Clan sees in me, 
Sharpclaw doesn t. Will my father ever understand? 


Clouds covered the sky and a thin drizzle was 
falling, soaking through Hawkwing’s fur and making 
him shiver. The dawn light was strengthening, but there 
was no sign of the sun. 

Sagenose, Firefern, and Harrybrook had been 
chosen to go on the new quest with Hawkwing, 
Darktail, and Rain. All of them were crouching around 
the fresh-kill pile, bolting down prey before setting out 
on their search. 

Hawkwing swallowed the last bite of mouse and 
stretched out his forelegs to loosen up for the long 
journey. Beside him, Darktail was doing the same. 

“How long do you think we’ll be away?” 
Hawkwing asked him. 

The white tom paused before replying, a thoughtful 
look in his eyes. “As long as it takes,” he replied at 
last. “Until we find the spark and dispel the darkness.” 


His words awoke a glow of determination in 
Hawkwing’s heart. Yes! This time we wont stop until 
we find Firestar 5 kin! 

Rising to his paws, Darktail gathered his patrol 
around him with a sweep of his tail At the same 
moment Leafstar appeared through the drizzle, with 
Echosong limping at her side, and a group of the 
SkyClan cats straggling behind. 

“We're ready to go,” Darktail announced, sharing 
a solemn look with the Clan leader. “I promise you, PI 
succeed this time.” 

Leafstar dipped her head, while Echosong padded 
around and gave traveling herbs to each of the 
questing cats. Hawkwing licked them up, grimacing at 
the bitter taste on his tongue. 

“May StarClan light your path,” Leafstar meowed, 
“and bring you home safe.” 

Callng their good-byes, the patrol followed 
Darktail as he headed for the trail that led to the top of 
the cliff. As he brought up the rear, Hawkwing noticed 
the apprentice Pebblepaw staring at him, a worried 
look in her eyes. 

Is she anxious about me, or the whole group? 


Hawkwing asked himself. 

He had barely spoken to Pebblepaw since their 
return from the first quest. Not out of hostility—that 
was all in the past—but because he knew she was 
grieving for Billystorm, and that he was maybe the last 
cat she would want to comfort her. 

Now he realized that Pebblepaw could just be 
thinking about the good of the Clan, but he couldn’t 
stifle the feeling that she was especially fearful for 
him. 

But I’m not sure she cares anything about me, 
he told himself. J can t even begin to imagine it. 

All Hawkwmg could do was tear his gaze away 
and bound over to the foot of the cliff, scrambling to 
catch up with his Clanmates. He had no idea anymore 
of how he felt about the young she-cat. 


With Darktail in the lead, the patrol headed across 
a wide stretch of grass, bounded by lines of bushes on 
all four sides. Several fox-lengths away a group of 
huge black-and-white animals were standing, tearing at 
the grass and grinding it slowly between teeth like 
jutting stones. Hawkwing cast sidelong glances at 
them, trying hard not to look nervous in front of the 


two rogues. 

“What are those?” Harrybrook asked, the fur on 
his shoulders beginning to bristle. “I didn’t think 
animals could be that big!” 

“They’re called cows,” Rain informed him with a 
wave of his bushy gray tail. “They’re not dangerous, 
but it’s best to stay away from them. They never look 
where they’re going.” 

Two days had passed since the questing cats had 
left the SkyClan camp. After the first rainy morning 
the weather had cleared and now a stiff breeze was 
blowing, sending fluffy white clouds scudding across 
the sky. Hawkwing was enjoying the warmth of 
sunlight on his pelt, and the enticing scent of prey from 
the bushes up ahead. 

I hope Darktail lets us stop to hunt soon. 

Beyond the line of bushes Hawkwing could see a 
copse of taller trees, and beyond that the walls of a 
Twoleg den, looming up vast even at that distance. 
Darktail seemed to be heading straight for it. 

“We're not going there, are we?” Hawkwing 
asked. “We don’t want to get mixed up with Twolegs.” 

“That’s exactly where we’re going,” Darktail 


replied. “It’s a Twoleg barn, sure, but the Twolegs 
abandoned it long ago.” 

Like the badgers abandoned the dens in that 
clearing? Hawkwing thought, instantly wary. But he 
kept his suspicions to himself, only resolving to be very 
careful as he and the rest of the patrol approached the 
den. 

“Why are we going there?” Firefern asked, putting 
on speed to pad beside Darktail and Hawkwing. 

“Because I think it might be one of the places 
where Firestar and his kin took refuge,’ Darktail 
replied. “They might even still be there, but if they 
have moved on, we might be able to find traces of 
them.” 

“Cool!” Firefern meowed. 

Hawkwing’s pads prickled with excitement. He 
hadn’t realized that they could be so near to meeting 
with the other Clans. What will they think of us? 
What will we say to them? 

Darktail led the way through the bushes, the thorny 
branches scraping the cats’ sides as they wriggled 
through the gaps. The copse lay a few tail-lengths 
ahead, in a tangle of ferns and bramble. The air was 


still full of prey-scent, but Hawkwing wasn’t thinking 
about hunting anymore, when they might be so close to 
the end of their quest. 

Then as they drew nearer to the trees, Hawkwing 
caught a flicker of movement in the branches. Instantly 
he froze. 

“Darktail!” he called out in a hoarse voice. “Up 
ahead—” 

Then he broke off as Darktail bounded forward, 
obviously relaxed, and called out, “Toad? Toad, is that 
you?” 

At the sound of Darktail’s voice a skinny, mottled 
brown tom jumped down from one of the trees and 
trotted forward to meet Darktail “Hi,” he mewed, 
stretching out his neck so that the two cats could touch 
noses. Darktail mewed a happy greeting, his whiskers 
twitching with excitement. 

“It looks like they’re old friends,” Hawkwing 
murmured to Firefern. 

“Yes, we are,” Darktail responded, glancing over 
his shoulder as the rest of the patrol caught up with 
him. “I’m sorry, friends, let me introduce you—this is 
Toad. We’ve known each other for ages! Toad and 


Rain and I have often hunted together in the past— 
isn’t that right, Rain?” 

Rain nodded. “Right. Hi, Toad. It’s good to see you 
again.” 

Toad nodded. “So what are you doing in these 
parts?” he asked. His glance raked over the SkyClan 
cats. “And who are these?” 

“More friends of ours,” Darktail replied, settling 
down comfortably in the shelter of a clump of ferns 
and wrapping his tail around his paws. Rain sat beside 
him, and beckoned with his tail for the other questing 
cats to join them. 

“We’re looking for even more cats,” Darktail 
continued to Toad. “A big group of them. Have you 
seen any unfamiliar cats around here?” 

“Funny you should say that.” Toad raised one hind 
paw to give his ear a vigorous scratch. “I did see a 
whole crowd of them—strong cats, well fed, with 
glossy fur. It was weird . . . I’ve never seen so many 
traveling together in a group.” 

Excitement blazed through Hawkwing like fire 
licking through dry bracken. The spark that remains! 
His earlier apprehension at the sudden appearance of 


another rogue was swallowed up and forgotten. “They 
sound like Clan cats!” he exclaimed. “Could they have 
been Firestar’s kin?” 

Toad twitched his whiskers dismissively. “I’ve 
never heard of any cat called Firestar,” he replied. 
“But I kept my distance. I just know that they camped 
for a while, here in this barn, and they weren’t 
rogues.” 

Hawkwing’s paws itched to sprint straight to the 
barn. We were right all along! 

“Come on!” he urged Darktail, springing to his 
paws and kneading the ground in his eagerness to get 
going. “Let’s hurry!” 

“Hang on a moment.” Sagenose flicked out his tail 
to stop Hawkwing from bounding toward the barn. 

Irritated, Hawkwing opened his jaws to protest, 
then saw the doubt in his Clanmate’s eyes. He sat 
down again, saying nothing. 

“As I understand it,” Sagenose went on, “the other 
Clans have an awful lot of cats between them. Would 
they all fit in that barn?” 

“Good question,” Harrybrook put in. “And how 
long have they lived there? According to Ravenpaw, 


they left the forest many, many moons ago.” 

“Well, it’s a big barn,’ Toad responded. “And it 
would take many moons for that many cats to find a 
suitable place to live.” 

“Of course, we don’t have all the answers now,” 
Darktail replied with an unconcerned flick of his ears. 
“Perhaps some Clans have splintered off. Perhaps 
their numbers have dwindled . . . but surely we should 
check out the barn, at least?” 

The SkyClan cats glanced at each other, 
Hawkwing struggling to conceal his impatience. 

“Do you know if the Clan cats are still there?” 
Sagenose asked Toad. 

The skinny rogue shrugged. “They may be,” he 
replied. “I noticed them when they first moved in, but I 
haven’t been back there in a while.” 

“Why don’t we just go and look?” Hawkwing 
demanded. “What do we have to lose?” 

Sagenose gave a grunt of agreement. “Okay, but 
let's all stay alert. We need to be ready if there’s any 
trouble.” 

“Tt’ll be fine,” Darktail mewed easily. “Toad, come 
along with us. Perhaps we can introduce you.” 


Toad padded alongside as Darktail led the questing 
cats toward the barn. As he drew closer, Hawkwing 
couldn’t work out what he thought of the place. His fur 
began to bristle as he spotted a monster crouching 
beside a wall of reddish rock, only to lie flat again as 
he realized it must be dead: Its insides were blackened 
and shriveled as if fire had roared through it. 

Hawkwing shivered. Even for a monster, thats a 
cruel way to die! 

There were no sounds coming from the barn, 
which made Hawkwing think Darktail must be right, 
and that the Twolegs who built it had abandoned it long 
ago. But when he opened his jaws to taste the air and 
pick up the traces of the Clan cats, strong Twoleg 
scents flowed in. 

Would Firestar’s kin really hide out here, so 
close to Twolegs? 

Hawkwing glanced at his Clanmates, who were all 
creeping around the barn, sniffing eagerly for the cat 
scent they hoped to find. Warily he padded over to join 
them, but the scent of Twolegs was swamping 
everything else. And there was another scent, cutting 
through it; alarm jolted through Hawkwing as he 


identified it. 

“Dogs!” he yowled. 

At the same moment the doors of the barn burst 
open. Two huge dogs sprang out, then skidded to a 
halt. Their jaws were parted and their tongues lolled as 
they let out bone-chilling howls. Two vicious-looking 
Twolegs were holding them back by long tendrils 
fastened around their necks. 

For a heartbeat Hawkwing and the other cats 
froze with terror. One of the Twolegs growled 
something, and to Hawkwing’s horror both Twolegs let 
go of their tendrils. The dogs were free! 

“Run!” Darktail screeched. 

Hawkwing spun around and raced away, his 
Clanmates pelting alongside him, with Darktail and the 
other rogues just ahead. 

“Follow me—make for the trees!” Darktail 
yowled. “Dogs can’t climb!” 

Hawkwing’s paws barely touched the ground as he 
hurled himself toward the copse. He could hear the 
dogs barking behind him, and imagined he could feel 
their hot breath on his hindquarters. His heart pounded 
at the thought of their vicious teeth meeting on his tail. 


Toad was the first cat to reach the nearest tree. At 
once he swarmed up the trunk and balanced on a low 
branch. Darktail clambered up beside him. Hawkwing 
leaped up into another tree next to them. Digging his 
claws into the fork where he crouched, he looked 
around and gasped with relief as he saw Firefern, 
Harrybrook, and Sagenose safe among the branches of 
a third tree on the other side of Darktail. 

Last of all, the dogs only a mouse-length behind 
him, Rain made an enormous leap and dug his 
foreclaws into a branch of Darktail’s tree. Hoisting 
himself up, he crouched there, hissing defiance at the 
dogs below. 

Hawkwing gazed down at the ferocious creatures, 
his chest heaving as he fought for breath. The dogs 
were running in wild circles at the base of the trees, 
barking fiercely as they looked up, their jaws slavering. 
Their Twolegs stood at a distance, pointing their 
forepaws and letting out huffs of laughter. 

How are we going to get out of this? Hawkwing 
wondered, trying to stop himself from trembling with 
fear. 

His gaze was still fixed on the dogs when he heard 


a sudden shriek, and whipped his head around to see 
Toad falling from his branch in a frantic tangle of paws 
and tail. His claws scraped on another branch as he 
plummeted past it, but he couldn’t get a grip; he hit the 
ground right between the two dogs. 

Toad was obviously half stunned by the impact. He 
struggled to his paws and tried to run, but he was far 
too slow. Before he had staggered more than a couple 
of steps, the nearest dog was upon him, grabbing his 
hind leg in its jaws. 

Toad let out a terrified screech. “Help me!” 

Hawkwing couldn’t see what he or any of the 
others could do. Jf we jump down and fight, the dogs 
will kill us . . . they're fiercer even than the 
badgers. 

Howls of anguish came from the other SkyClan 
cats. Hawkwing opened his jaws and let out his own 
terror and despair. This is too horrible! Its 
happening right in front of us, but there s nothing 
we can do! He couldn’t go on looking any longer, as 
Toad’s shrieks were abruptly cut off. 

“Listen, all of you!” Darktail hissed. “This is our 
chance. While the dogs are distracted, we can 


escape.” 

“But what about Toad?” Hawkwing asked, even 
though he knew how useless the question was. 

The rogue’s gaze turned dark. “There”s nothing we 
can do for Toad now.” 





CHAPTER 11 
+ 


Turning, Darktail began to scramble from branch to 
branch, heading toward the far side of the copse. 
Hawkwing followed him, thankful that his Clan had 
trained him to hunt in trees, so he could be sure-pawed 
so far above the ground. With every paw step he 
struggled not to listen to the dreadful snarling and 
tearing that came from the dogs. His Clanmates 
clambered after him, and Rain brought up the rear. 

When they reached the edge of the trees, Darktail 
leaped down. “Run!” he yowled. 

The rest of the patrol pelted after him, their belly 
fur brushing the grass and their tails streaming out 
behind them. Darktail led them to the hedge, where 
they thrust their way through again, ignoring the thorns 
that tore at their fur, until they could halt, panting, on 
the other side. 

Hawkwing’s belly was cramping so hard he 
thought he would have to vomit. He wanted to shut out 
the memory of Toad being ripped apart by the dogs, 
but he thought the sound and the reek of blood would 


stay with him for the rest of his life. 

Crouching down, he peered through a gap in the 
hedge, ready to warn his Clanmates if the dogs 
pursued them. But he saw nothing; all he heard was 
some distant barking and the yowls of Twolegs, which 
quickly faded away. 

“Now what do we do?” Sagenose asked, when all 
the cats had managed to catch their breath. 

Darktail sat with his head bowed; the light had 
gone out of his eyes, and he looked smaller, hunched in 
on himself. “I’m sorry,” he mewed. “It looks like there 
aren’t any cats here—at least, not anymore.” 

“T can’t believe that!” Hawkwing protested. “Toad 
said he saw them! We can’t have traveled so far from 
camp, only to fail again. We must try to pick up their 
scent.” 

Darktail made no reply. He wouldn’t look at any 
cat, and his fur bristled as if he was still in shock. Hes 
too overcome with grief to think clearly, Hawkwing 
thought. But Sagenose gave Hawkwing a brisk nod. 

“You’re right,” he told Hawkwing. “We’ll search, 
but we have to stay well away from that barn. 
Harrybrook, you keep watch, and warn us if you see 


any sign of those dogs, or the Twolegs, coming back.” 

Encouraged by the older warrior, Hawkwing led 
his friends in a wide circle around the barn, noses to 
the ground as they desperately searched for some 
trace of the Clan cats. 

If Toad was right, Firestar s kin must be close, 
he thought. We can t give up now! 

But eventually even Hawkwing had to admit that 
they had failed. The sun was much lower in the sky, 
and they still hadn’t picked up even the faintest trace 
of cat scent. Apart from themselves, there were no 
cats here, and no evidence that cats had ever been 
there: no scraps of fur, no scratched-up ground where 
they might have buried their dirt, no feathers or other 
remains of prey. 

Finally, tail drooping dispiritedly, Hawkwing led the 
way back to where Darktail still crouched in the 
shelter of the hedge with Rain beside him. He looked 
up as the SkyClan cats approached. 

“No luck?” he asked. 

Hawkwing shook his head. “Nothing. I can't 
understand it.” 

“Maybe the Twolegs and their dogs chased the 


missing Clan cats away,” Rain suggested. “They might 
even have killed them.” 

“All of them?” Hawkwing couldn’t believe that, 
even though he had just seen those dogs kill a cat. 
“Even if they did, surely we would have found traces 
—blood, or fur, or something.” 

“And you led us into this mess,” Firefern hissed, 
her ginger fur bristling as she padded up to Darktail 
and thrust her muzzle close to his. “Is this a game to 
you? Watching cats get hurt?” 

Darktail looked up at her, his eyes wide and tragic. 
His ears were flattened to his head and his whiskers 
quivered. Hawkwing couldn’t remember ever seeing a 
cat so distressed. Except maybe me, after Duskpaw 
died. 

“Okay! I messed up!” Darktail confessed, 
flattening himself onto his belly. “I promised to lead you 
to the Clan cats, and I failed. I failed horribly! Again. 
And Ill never, ever forgive myself for the death of 
Toad. He was my friend. There’s nothing I can do to 
make up for my stupidity. J deserve to be fed to the 
dogs—not poor Toad!” 

Firefern backed off, looking ashamed of her 


outburst. “Sorry,” she muttered. “You just lost your 
friend. I know you must be feeling bad.” 

“TIl go and search the barn!” Darktail staggered to 
his paws. “I don’t care if the dogs are still there. I'll 
find out if the Clan cats stayed there, or die trying!” 

“You'll do no such thing,” Sagenose growled, while 
Rain pressed Darktail down again with a paw on his 
shoulder. “It’s not worth another life.” 

Sympathy for Darktail flooded over Hawkwing, 
swamping his frustration and sense of failure. The 
rogue looked not just grief-stricken, but confused—as 
if he’d just woken up from a dark, terrifying dream... 
that was actually real. He clearly couldn’t believe what 
had happened. 

Hawkwing settled down beside the rogue cat, so 
close that their pelts brushed. 

“Don't be too hard on yourself)” he meowed. 
“Toad just fell off the branch. There was nothing you 
could’ve done.” 

Darktail nodded. “Yes. I... I tried to grab him, but 
he was too heavy for me to hold.” 

“My brother Duskpaw died in a fire,” Hawkwing 
went on, pressing his muzzle briefly into Darktail’s 


shoulder. “And I keep telling myself I should have 
saved him. So I know what it’s like to feel responsible 
for a cat’s death. It’s like a vicious claw underneath 
your fur, snagging and tearing at you. I don’t want you 
to go through that, too.” 

Darktail gave Hawkwing a brief glance before 
going back to studying his own paws. “Thanks,” he 
whispered. 

Hawkwing drew away slightly, leaving Darktail 
with Rain, and gestured with his tail for his Clanmates 
to gather around. “We have to decide what to do now,” 
he meowed. 

Sagenose shrugged. “What can we do? We’ve no 
proof that the Clan cats were ever here.” 

“Even if they were,’ Firefern agreed with a 
frustrated twitch of her tail, “there’s nothing to tell us 
where they’ve gone now.” 

“You mean we should just turn around and go 
home?” Harrybrook asked, blinking unhappily. 

Hawkwing opened his jaws to protest. “But we—” 

“What else do you suggest?” Sagenose 
interrupted. “Should we just wander around, trying to 
pick up scent that might never have been there in the 


first place? That’s a good way to get ourselves killed.” 

Firefern and Harrybrook both let out approving 
murmurs as Sagenose spoke. Hawkwing could tell 
there was no arguing with them, and deep down he 
had to admit they were right. Theres no way we can 
find Firestar s kin now. 

“Okay,” he mewed, reluctant to believe this was 
his second failed quest. J was so sure we would 
succeed this time! And now we're no closer to 
finding the spark that remains. “I guess we go 
home.” 

As he was speaking, Darktail rose to his paws and 
padded over with Rain at his shoulder. Hawkwing 
could see that he was beginning to recover, though he 
still looked shaken. 

“We should move away from here,” he meowed. 
“Those dogs could still be around.” 

Hawkwing cast an uneasy glance back at the barn. 
There was no sign of the dogs or Twolegs—he was 
almost certain they had gone away—but he couldn’t 
rid himself of the fear that they could come bursting 
out at a heartbeat’s notice and hunt him and his 
Clanmates down. 


Their paws trailing despondently, their tails 
dragging on the ground, the patrol followed Sagenose, 
who took the lead back across the stretch of grass 
toward a holly thicket at the far side. “I think we 
should make camp for the night,’ he suggested, “and 
then head back to the gorge at sunrise.” 

Within the thicket was a small clearing sheltered by 
ferns, where water seeped from a crack in a rocky 
outcrop and trickled into a small pool. Darktail let 
himself flop down at the water’s edge with a drawn- 
out groan. Hawkwing could see that though he had 
roused himself to follow the others away from danger, 
he was still devastated by the death of Toad. 

“Why don’t you rest,” he urged, “and some of us 
will hunt.” 

“TI go,” Sagenose offered immediately. 
“Harrybrook, will you come with me?” 

“Sure,” the young gray tom replied. 

‘TIl come too,” mewed Rain. 

The hunters moved off into the bushes, leaving 
Hawkwing and Firefern beside Darktail While 
Firefern coaxed the rogue to lap some of the water, 
Hawkwing drew into himself, unable to think anymore 


of what he could say to Darktail He was too busy 
imagining all too clearly what it would be like when 
they returned to the SkyClan camp. 

Sharpclaw doesnt think I can do anything 
right. And now I'll have to explain to him that 
we ve failed again. 

By the time the hunting party returned the sun was 
going down, filling the thicket with shadows. A chilly 
breeze had sprung up, rustling the fern fronds and 
piercing Hawkwing’s fur with cold claws. 

Rain strode into the clearing dangling two mice by 
their tails, while Sagenose followed with a thrush and 
Firefern dragged a rabbit between her forelegs. 

“At least the hunting was good,” Sagenose mewed, 
dropping his prey beside the pool. “Come and eat.” 

Hawkwing forced himself to move forward and 
take his share of the prey, but he felt every mouthful 
was going to choke him. Darktail hardly touched a 
morsel, and none of the others had much appetite 
either, except for Rain, who devoured his mouse and 
swiped his tongue around his jaws with satisfaction. 

As full darkness gathered, Hawkwing curled up 
and closed his eyes, but it took a long time for sleep to 


come, and when it did, his dreams were full of Toad’s 
desperate shrieks as the dogs tore him apart. 


Hawkwing opened his eyes and stretched his jaws 
into a wide yawn. Pale dawn light was filtering through 
the branches of the holly thicket. Blinking, Hawkwing 
sat up and saw that the rest of the patrol were rousing 
too. For a moment he found it hard to remember 
where they were and what they should be domg. 
When his memory flowed back, he felt as if a huge 
rock had dropped into his belly. 

This is the day we have to head back and admit 
we failed—again. 

A few scraps of prey were left from the night 
before. No cat felt like hunting for more, so when they 
had shared the meager remains they set out again, with 
Darktail in the lead. The rogue tom seemed to be 
looking inward, scarcely speaking; Hawkwing guessed 
that he was still reliving Toad’s terrible death. 

The sun was just coming up, shedding a golden 
light across their path. Every blade of grass glittered 
with dew. But Hawkwing’s thoughts were still dark as 
he thought of their return to their waiting Clan. How 
am I going to explain all this to Leafstar and my 


father? 

After a while, Darktail dropped back a few paw 
steps to pad alongside Hawkwing. “You look worried,” 
he meowed. “Are you okay?” 

Hawkwing was touched that Darktail should think 
about his feelings in the midst of his own grieving. 
“Yes, I am worried,” he confessed. “I’m nervous about 
going home and telling every cat that we’re no nearer 
to finding Firestar’s kin. I really hoped I would impress 
Sharpclaw on this quest, but now he’s going to despise 
me as much as ever.” 

Darktail gave him a sympathetic glance. 
“Sharpclaw doesn’t sound like much of a father,” he 
observed, “if he blames you for something that isn't 
your fault.” 

Hawkwing felt a tinge of defensiveness at the 
white tom’s words. After all, Darktail doesnt really 
know Sharpclaw. 

“He's a great cat,” he responded. “But . . . well, 
things haven't been the same between us since 
Duskpaw died.” 

“Then maybe you'll both get over it,” Darktail 
mewed with an understanding nod. “But remember— 


it’s all well and good being kin to a cat, but in the wild 
you have to take your kin where you find it.” 

His somber tone convinced Hawkwing that he was 
speaking from personal experience. He felt a sharp 
prick of curiosity, wondering if this had anything to do 
with Darktail’s friend who had starved to death in a 
harsh leaf-bare, but Darktail said no more, and 
Hawkwing didn’t feel that he could ask him about it. 


Hawkwing and the rest of the patrol approached 
the SkyClan camp as their second day of travel drew 
to a close. The sinking sun cast red light over the 
stretch of grass that separated the gorge from the 
Twolegplace, and a few warriors of StarClan already 
glimmered in the sky. 

As the cats headed toward the gorge, Hawkwing 
picked up the scent of the border markers, and halted 
abruptly, his pads prickling with apprehension. “That's 
odd,” he muttered. 

“What’s the matter?” Harrybrook asked. 

“The scent markings are stale,’ Hawkwing replied. 
“They haven’t been renewed since dawn at least.” 

His Clanmates tasted the air, and after a moment 
Sagenose nodded. “You're right,” he mewed. “Maybe 


they're just late with the evening patrol. .. .” 

“Do you really think so?” Hawkwing challenged 
him. “Or has there been more trouble? Let’s get down 
there!” 

The patrol picked up speed as they wound their 
way among the shrubs at the top of the gorge, and the 
shadows of the trees lay dark across their path. 
Hawkwing imagined they were ominous paws 
reaching out to grab him, then gave his pelt a shake, 
telling himself not to be so mouse-brained. 

Twilight lay thick in the gorge as Hawkwing and 
the others reached the head of the trail that led down 
into the camp. It was impossible to see exactly what 
was going on down below, except that there seemed to 
be a crowd of cats clustering around the entrance to 
Echosong’s den. 

Hawkwing took the lead as the patrol headed into 
the gorge. He was scarcely aware of the cliff dropping 
away below him as his paws skimmed over the rocks. 
His heart was pounding and he could hardly catch his 
breath. 

“What happened?” he demanded, thrusting his way 
into the group of cats around Echosong’s den. “Is 


something wrong?” 

His sister Blossomheart turned to face him. In the 
dim light he saw that she had an angry wound on one 
shoulder, with a clump of fur missing, as if some 
creature had bitten her. 

“Those animals came back,” she told Hawkwing. 
“Those . . . raccoons. It was terrible. Leafstar lost a 
life!” 

Hawkwing felt as though he had been clawed in 
his belly. Now he understood why the scent markings 
hadn’t been renewed, and why his Clanmates were 
waiting anxiously outside the medicine cats’ den. And 
now that he had a moment to catch his breath, he 
could pick up the reek of the raccoons, fading now but 
still clear enough to reveal the creatures’ recent 
presence in the camp. The scent of blood was mingled 
with it, and as Hawkwing looked around he saw that 
more of his Clanmates bore the marks of the raccoons’ 
teeth and claws. Most of them were already patched 
with cobweb and poultices of marigold; both medicine 
cats must have been working tirelessly. 

“There were more of them this time,” Rabbitleap 
added from where he stood beside Blossomheart. 


“What are we going to do?” 

Before any cat could reply, Sharpclaw appeared at 
the mouth of the den. His green eyes glinted in the 
twilight as his gaze swept across the cluster of cats. 

“Leafstar will be fine,” he announced. “There’s no 
need to worry about her, or to hang around here like a 
bunch of sick rabbits. Tinycloud . . .” He angled his 
ears toward the white she-cat. “You’re okay, aren’t 
you? Round up some of the other uninjured warriors 
and take them to renew the scent markers.” 

Tinycloud gave a brisk nod. “Right, Sharpclaw.” 
She headed off, waving her tail to collect more of her 
Clanmates around her. 

As the crowd thinned out, Sharpclaw spotted 
Hawkwing and the other questing cats, who had 
hurried up behind him. “You’re back!” he exclaimed, 
his tail curling up in surprise. “Come in here and report 
—no, not all of you, just Hawkwing and . . . yes, 
Darktail.” 

Hawkwing’s belly cramped; this was the moment 
he had been dreading. StarClan, help me. It wasnt 
our fault! No cat could have tracked Firestar 5 kin 
from that barn. But Hawkwing knew that Sharpclaw 


wouldn’t see it like that. 

He padded into the medicine cats’ den, with 
Darktail hard on his paws. Inside he saw Leafstar 
lying in a nest of moss; she was stretched out on one 
side with her belly exposed, and Echosong was patting 
marigold pulp onto a scar on her chest between her 
forelegs. Hawkwing felt sick as he realized that must 
be the wound that had taken one of his Clan leader’s 
lives. 

On the other side of the den, Frecklewish was 
patching Mistfeather’s shoulder with a thick wad of 
cobweb. The gray tom flinched as her paws pressed 
the web down firmly to stop his wound from bleeding. 

Leafstar raised her head as Hawkwing and 
Darktail entered the den. She looked exhausted, but 
her voice was steady as she meowed, “So you’re 
back! Are all of you safe?” 

Hawkwing nodded. “We”re all fine.” 

“And did you find Firestar’s kin?” 

Hawkwing felt as if the one word was going to 
choke him, it was so hard to get it out. “No.” 

“No?” It was Sharpclaw who spoke, his voice 
edged with irritation. “Why not?” 


Glancing at Darktail, Hawkwing saw that the 
rogue tom was standing at his shoulder, his head bent 
dejectedly as he stared at his paws. Obviously there 
was no use expecting him to explain anything. 

“We traveled for two days,” Hawkwing began, 
speaking to Leafstar. It was easier to face his leader 
than the icy green stare of his father. “Then we met a 
cat called Toad, a friend of Darktail's.” He went on to 
describe how Toad had told them of a group of cats 
who had stayed for a while in the abandoned Twoleg 
barn, and how Twolegs and dogs had sprung out on the 
patrol when they tried to investigate. His voice shook 
and cold shivers ran through him as he related the 
story of Toad’s death. In his mind he could still hear 
the rogue cat’s shrieks and the terrible snarling of the 
dogs. “And when we tried to pick up a scent trail,” he 
finished, “we couldn’t find anything. Not a single trace 
that Clan cats had ever been there.” 

Sharpclaw turned a hostile gaze on Darktail. “You 
told us you knew how to find Firestar’s kin.” 

Darktail didn’t look up. “I was wrong,” he mewed 
humbly. “Pm sorry.” 

“Sorry? doesn’t help us,” Mistfeather put in with a 


snort of contempt. “We’re no nearer to finding out 
what StarClan’s prophecy means.” 

“And yet more darkness seems to be gathering, 
with all these attacks,” Sharpclaw added. “We need to 
follow StarClan’s advice as soon as we can.” 

“As far as I can see,” Mistfeather growled, still 
glaring at Darktail, “we’d have been far better off if 
you and your rogue friend had never set paw in our 
camp.” 

Darktail cringed away from him. “I tried my best 
—” he began. 

“And your best wasn’t good enough,” Sharpclaw 
told him curtly. “Hawkwmg, did this Toad tell you 
anything about where the Clan cats might have gone?” 

“No,” Hawkwing replied, beginning to feel 
annoyed. “If he had, don’t you think we would have 
tried to follow them?” 

“I don't know what you would have done,” 
Sharpclaw retorted. “I only know that you’ve gone out 
twice now, and we’re still no nearer to fulfilling the 
prophecy.” 

“And we’ve lost Billystorm,” Mistfeather added. 

Hawkwing’s belly churned and he twitched the tip 


of his tail to and fro, doing his best to hold on to his 
temper. Like you would have done any better if 
you'd been there, he thought, but he had the sense not 
to say the words out loud. 

“That’s enough.” Leafstar’s voice was weary, and 
Hawkwing realized that Mistfeather’s mention of 
Billystorm was more than she could cope with just 
then. “We need to think more deeply about this before 
we decide what to do next.” 

“And you need to rest.” Echosong spoke for the 
first time, her voice firm. “Out, all of you! Frecklewish, 
go and see if any cat still has untreated wounds. 
Otherwise, no cat sets paw in here until morning.” 

As he left the den in obedience to the medicine 
cat’s orders, Hawkwing felt as if his heart had sunk 
right down into his paws. We have enough trouble 
with these new creatures attacking our camp, he 
thought. How can StarClan expect us to follow their 
prophecy as well? And whats going to happen to 
us if we dont? 





CHAPTER 12 
+ 


Hawkwing was roused from his sleep in the 
warriors’ den by the sound of his father’s voice 
yowling through the camp. “Let all cats gather here 
beneath the Rockpile for a Clan meeting!” 

Around Hawkwing, his Clanmates were already 
leaping up and heading out of the cave. He staggered 
to his paws and shook scraps of bedding out of his pelt. 
Exhausted from the journey and the shock of learning 
about the fresh attack, he felt as if he had hardly 
rested at all, even though the sun was already well 
above the trees. 

Hawkwing was the last to leave the den, following 
Rileypaw and Stormheart down the trail to where 
Sharpclaw waited at the foot of the Rockpile. There 
was no sign of Leafstar—Hawkwing guessed she was 
still resting—but he spotted the two rogues, Darktail 
and Rain, off to the side of the gathering crowd. 

Hawkwing joined the others and flopped down 
beside his sister, Cloudmist. “What now?” he muttered 
into her ear. 


Cloudmist shook her head. “Just listen,’ she 
whispered back. 

“SkyClan has suffered a second attack,” 
Sharpclaw announced when all the cats had settled 
down. “It’s time to change our strategy. To begin with, 
patrols will be larger from now on. The raccoons may 
have been driven off for the time being, but if they 
think we are weak, or that there aren’t many of us, 
they’ Il try to attack again for sure.” 

“That makes sense,” Hawkwing murmured to his 
sister. 

“It means every cat will have to patrol more 
often,” she agreed, giving a quick lick to a scratch on 
her shoulder, “but if it keeps the raccoons away, it’ll be 
worth it.” 

Hawkwing noticed that some of his Clanmates 
were casting mistrustful glances at Darktail and Rain, 
and he remembered the hostility of Sharpclaw and 
Mistfeather when the questing patrol had returned the 
night before with news of their failure. 

He thought too about his own hostility toward 
Darktail before they had left on the second quest. 
Every cat blamed me for feeling that way—but now 


they seem to agree that Darktail is a menace. 

But Hawkwing didn’t feel the same way anymore. 
After the events of the quest, and especially after 
seeing Darktail’s grief at the death of his friend Toad, 
he couldn’t help but trust the white tom. 

The same suspicion his other Clanmates had begun 
to show appeared in the eyes of Waspwhisker as he 
rose to his paws with a sidelong glance at the two 
rogue cats. “What if the threat is actually inside the 
camp?” he asked. 

Every cat knew what he meant, and heads turned 
to stare at Darktail and Rain. Hawkwing heard one or 
two hisses, and some cat called out, “Yes! What about 
that?” 

Darktail remained calm in the face of 
Waspwhisker’s accusation. He stood up and dipped his 
head politely toward Sharpclaw, as if he was asking 
permission to speak. 

“I never meant to hurt the Clan,” he meowed. “But 
I admit I made some mistakes. Surely it’s a measure of 
my honor that I want to do everything I can to make 
up for it? Surely the fact that I’m still around, trying my 
best to put things right, has to count for something?” 


Waspwhisker gave a dismissive flick of his tail. 
“Rogue cats just don’t belong with a Clan. They will 
never understand Clan cats’ ways,” he growled. “It’s 
impossible!” 

“This is true,” Sharpclaw agreed. “Clan cats have 
rules; rogues have none. Clan cats are taught to care 
for each other; rogue cats think only of their own 
survival. Darktail is not one of us, and he never will 
be.” 

“That's not fair!” Hawkwing blurted out, leaping to 
his paws. “Sharpclaw, you know that Darktail fought 
bravely for the Clan when the raccoons attacked. And 
you should have seen the grief on his face when his 
friend Toad fell out of that tree. He has lost friends, 
just like we have. He doesn’t need us throwing 
accusations at him.” 

Even while he was speaking, Hawkwing was torn 
about contradicting his father, especially for a cat he 
hadn’t known for very long. He wasn’t keen, either, on 
repeating his earlier argument with Sharpclaw in front 
of the whole Clan. But he couldn’t stifle the conviction 
that this time Sharpclaw was being unreasonable and 
harsh. 


Sharpclaw whipped his head around to glare at his 
son, a look of outrage in his green eyes. “Why do you 
always have to argue with me?” he demanded. 
“Darktail isn’t your replacement brother, and he 
doesn’t deserve more loyalty than kin!” 

“Wait . . . Pm sure that's not what Hawkwing 
thinks,” Cherrytail put in, but Sharpclaw ignored her, 
still fixing Hawkwing with a hard stare. 

Hawkwing’s fur began to bristle. He felt like a 
scrap of twig being whirled around in a fierce gale of 
emotion. Grief and anger filled him at his father’s 
words, along with confusion about why he would say 
such a thing. And every hair on his pelt burned with 
embarrassment as he realized that all his Clanmates 
were looking at him. 

The conflicting pressures were too much to bear. 
Unable to stop himself, even though he knew that it 
made him seem as immature as a day-old kit, 
Hawkwing whipped around with a contemptuous flick 
of his tail and stormed away, back up the trail to his 
den. 

I know it looks like I’m sulking, but I dont care 
what any cat thinks. If their father had been so 


unfair to them, they’d be as angry as I am now. 

Back in the warriors’ den, Hawkwing flung himself 
down into his nest, letting his anger surge over him. 
But after a few moments, guilt and renewed 
embarrassment began to prick him like a thorn in his 
belly. 

If my Clanmates are patrolling, I want to be 
there with them, he realized. I want to help them, and 
keep them safe. Oh, fox dung .. . I know I’m 
behaving like a petulant kit! 

Taking a deep breath, Hawkwing rose to his paws, 
ready to head back out of the den. Just then, a shadow 
fell over the den floor, and he saw that Pebblepaw was 
poking her head through the entrance. She was the last 
cat Hawkwing had expected to see. This feels totally 
weird. I’ve hardly spoken to her since we went on 
the first quest together. 

“Are you okay?” Pebblepaw asked. “That must 
have been awful, having your father be harsh to you 
like that. In front of the whole Clan, too.” 

For a moment Hawkwing didn’t know how to 
reply. He didn’t want to seem weak or immature in 
front of Pebblepaw. At the same time, he couldn’t help 


asking himself what it meant that she’d left a Clan 
meeting just to come check on him. 

I cant cope with this right now. 

“I'm fine!” he snapped at last. “I don't need any 
cat's pity.” 

Pebblepaw’s eyes widened with hurt. Without 
another word she withdrew from the den; Hawkwing 
followed her out and saw her stalking down the trail. 

That went well, he thought, annoyed with himself. 
Why can t I think before I speak? 

“Pebblepaw, wait!” he called out. 

The speckled white she-cat halted, then after a 
heartbeat turned her head to look up at him. “What?” 

“I'm sorry,” Hawkwing meowed. Even though he 
knew he had been wrong, it was hard to force the 
words out. “I shouldn’t have snapped at you.” 

For a moment more Pebblepaw hesitated. “Its 
okay,” she responded at last, ducking her head. Then 
she bounded off to the bottom of the cliff where her 
brother Parsleypaw was waiting. 

Hawkwing watched her go, an unexpectedly warm 
feeling creeping through him from ears to tail-tip. /’m 
glad I said that. I dont want to fight with her 


anymore. 

Glancing farther out across the camp, Hawkwing 
could see cats still gathered around Sharpclaw at the 
foot of the Rockpile. By the look of their bushed-up fur 
and twitching tails, they were still bickering. On the 
opposite side of the gorge, Darktail and Rain were 
heading up the cliff, leading a patrol with Bellapaw, 
Sandynose, and Mistfeather. 

Hawkwing bunched his muscles, preparing to 
bound down the trail and across the camp to catch up 
with the departing cats. Then he relaxed again with a 
sigh. Its no good. I want to protect the camp, but if 
I go haring after Darktail, it'll only make things 
worse with Sharpclaw. 

He waited until the patrol was gone. Then he 
turned and walked back to his den. 


Hawkwing slipped through the undergrowth at the 
top of the gorge, following Bouncefire, Nettlesplash, 
Pebblepaw, and Sandynose, who had taken over 
Pebblepaw’s training after Billystorm’s death. As part 
of one of the new, larger patrols, Hawkwing kept all 
his senses alert for any sign that the raccoons were 
back on SkyClan territory. To his relief, everything 


seemed peaceful. 

The camp had become more peaceful, too, in the 
few days since the questing patrol had returned. 
Hawkwing’s Clanmates had stopped interrogating him 
about what had happened, and why they hadn’t 
managed to track down Firestar’s kin. 

Leafstar, seeming recovered from the loss of her 
life, had spoken from the Rockpile, proclaiming that 
SkyClan would wait until Echosong received another 
vision from StarClan. “Maybe,” she had meowed, “the 
next prophecy will be clearer.” 

Hawkwing wasn’t sure that his leader was right. 
StarClan's advice hasnt exactly been helpful so 
far, he mused. What if they dont actually want to 
help us? He couldn’t imagine why the spirits of their 
warrior ancestors would turn against them. But our 
luck could not have been worse, and there has to 
be a reason for that. ... 

Bouncefire, leading the patrol, brought them out of 
the undergrowth and across the stretch of grass that 
separated SkyClan territory from the Twolegplace. As 
they approached, Hawkwing saw that a new Twoleg 
rock made from freshly cut flat sticks had replaced the 


one that was burned. Thicker foliage had covered most 
of the scorch marks on the tree. Renewed grief swept 
over Hawkwing. 

Its like my brother was never even here... . 

He was careful not to look at Pebblepaw as they 
and their Clanmates padded past the Twoleg 
greenplace. He didn’t want to be reminded of how he 
had saved her instead of Duskpaw, and also, he was 
surprised to realize, he didn’t want Pebblepaw to feel 
any trace of guilt about that terrible day. 

Reaching the farthest stretch of SkyClan territory, 
the patrol turned back. “Nothing to report, thank 
StarClan,” Bouncefire commented. 

But as they drew nearer to the wooded area above 
the gorge, Hawkwing spotted Darktail, alone, skirting 
the edge of the trees as if he was heading for the 
camp from the direction of the Twolegplace. 

He's not with a patrol, so what is he doing? 
Hawkwing wondered. 

His pelt prickled with anxiety as he saw Darktail 
crouch down, his head jerking as if he was being sick. 
But after a moment the rogue tom rose to his paws 
again and padded calmly away, making for the 


Twolegplace again. 

Thats really weird... . 

“Hey, Bouncefire, I need to make dirt,” Hawkwing 
called out. “TIl catch up to you.” 

Bouncefire waved his tail in acknowledgment as 
he and Nettlesplash, Sandynose, and Pebblepaw 
vanished into the undergrowth. Hawkwing bounded 
over to where Darktail had stopped. On the ground, he 
saw a few scraps of what looked and smelled like 
Twoleg food. 

Hawkwing stood for several heartbeats, gazing 
down at the scraps. In one way, he wasn’t surprised, 
assuming that rogue cats would eat anything, but what 
was really strange was that the food hadn’t been 
eaten. Darktail hadn’t been sick. He must have been 
carrying the food in his mouth, and then dropped it. 

Maybe he didnt like the taste, Hawkwing 
thought, with a pang of pain as he remembered how 
much Duskpaw would have loved it. But then, why 
did he go back toward the Twolegplace? 

Darktail was still in sight, a distant figure across 
the grass. Hawkwing decided to follow him, keeping 
his distance, and making sure that the breeze was 


blowing toward him, and wouldn’t carry his scent to 
the rogue tom. 

Unaware he was being followed, Darktail headed 
onward, until he slipped down a narrow Thunderpath 
between the first dens of the Twolegplace. Hawkwing 
felt his pelt prickle with apprehension. / don t want to 
go in there. Then he took a deep breath, bracing 
himself. If Darktail can do it, so can I! 

Hawkwing kept glancing around warily, alert for 
the appearance of Twolegs or monsters, as he crept 
along in Darktail’s paw steps. To his relief, not much 
time had passed before Darktail halted, then wriggled 
underneath a shiny barrier that blocked a gap between 
two lines of bushes. 

Giving Darktail enough time to get ahead, 
Hawkwing squeezed through after him, and found 
himself standing at the edge of a stretch of smooth 
grass, surrounded by bushes covered with strange, 
brilliantly colored flowers. At the far side of the grass 
the walls of a Twoleg den, built of reddish rock, loomed 
over him. His head spun at the mixture of unfamiliar 
sights and scents. 

There was no sign of Darktail, but Hawkwing 


could hear odd clanging noises coming from 
somewhere beyond the den. A moment later the rogue 
tom reappeared, whisking around the corner of the 
rock wall. 

Terrified of being spotted, Hawkwing dived under 
the nearest bush. He crouched there, panting, as 
Darktail passed within a tail-length of him. J only hope 
these weird flowers are masking my scent. Then he 
tensed, digging his claws hard into the ground. Darktail 
had another piece of Twoleg food gripped in his jaws. 

What does Darktail need Twoleg food for? He 
wasn't eating it. No—he 5 taking it somewhere. But 
what other possible use could he have for the Twoleg 
scraps? 

The white tom was too intent on his peculiar 
mission to notice Hawkwing in his hiding place. He 
wriggled under the shiny barrier again and headed 
back the way he had come. 

Still tracking him, Hawkwing saw Darktail drop 
this new mouthful about halfway between the 
Twolegplace and the spot where he had dropped the 
first scraps of food. Then he bounded off, making for 
the camp. 


Hawkwing followed more slowly, not sure what to 
make of any of this. He felt like he’d gotten to know 
Darktail better on their last quest, and he now believed 
that the rogue cat was good at heart. But what is this 
about? 

I could ask him. But Hawkwing felt a shiver of 
dread at the thought of admitting to his friend that he’d 
spied on him. He already thinks the whole Clan 
doesn t trust him. I’m the one friend he has. 

Glancing back at the Twoleg scraps, Hawkwing 
felt uneasy. I have to think about how to handle 
this, he thought. I’m not really sure he’s doing 
anything wrong. 

As Hawkwing slowly made his way back to camp, 
his heart was heavy. / want to trust Darktail, he 
thought. / just hope we really can. 





CHAPTER 13 
+ 


Dew still gleamed on the grass and soaked into 
Hawkwing's pelt as he brushed through it, following 
Waspwhisker on the dawn patrol. Pale light seeped 
between the branches, though the forest floor still lay 
in shadow, with ragged scraps of mist floating among 
the trees. 

Though Leafstar had still not appeared from 
Echosong's den, she had given orders to Sharpclaw 
that the boundaries of SkyClan’s territory should be 
extended. Hawkwing assumed she thought that a new 
barrier might deter the raccoons; he wished that he 
could feel confident that she was right. 

Waspwhisker was leading the patrol, with 
Hawkwing, Darktail, Bellapaw, and Sparrowpelt. They 
had hardly left the camp when Hawkwing realized that 
Waspwhisker was in a bad mood, and he seemed to be 
taking most of it out on Darktail. 

“For StarClan's sake!” the gray-and-white tom 
hissed. “Can't you walk a bit more quietly? You sound 
like you’ve got rocks instead of paws.” 


“Sorry,” Darktail muttered, casting his eyes 
downward and clearly making an effort to set his paws 
down more lightly. 

Waspwhisker gave the white tom a cold look from 
narrowed eyes, but said no more until Darktail 
sneezed. 

“Good job, Darktail,” Waspwhisker snapped. “You 
might as well just call out to all the prey, ‘Watch out for 
cats!” 

Darktail’s head swung up, and for a moment 
Hawkwing thought that he would snap back at 
Waspwhisker. Then he simply nodded, and mewed that 
he really would try to be quiet. 

Bellapaw exchanged a glance with Hawkwing. 
“What’s wrong with Waspwhisker?” she murmured. 
“He’s being way too hard on Darktail.” 

Hawkwing shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe he 
doesn’t want Darktail here anymore.” 

For his own part, Hawkwing was impressed that 
Darktail was managing to keep his temper. J dont 
think I could, if Waspwhisker spoke to me like that. 

His feelings of sympathy brought him back to the 
problem he had been struggling with ever since he had 


seen Darktail carrying food from the Twolegplace the 
day before. Should I report him or not? 

So far he had said nothing, partly because he 
couldn’t be sure that Darktail was up to no good, and 
partly because Leafstar and Sharpclaw had too much 
on their minds after the raccoon attack to worry about 
something that might be completely unimportant. 

For now, I'll just keep a close eye on Darktail, 
Hawkwing decided, and see what he does next. 

So far, the rogue tom had done nothing else 
suspicious, and he was doing his best on this patrol, in 
spite of Waspwhisker’s hostility. 

Along with his uneasiness about Darktail, 
Hawkwing’s mind was full of memories of his brother. 
Seeing the evidence of the fire wiped away from the 
Twoleg greenplace had brought all his grief flooding 
back. In a way, it was like wiping Duskpaw away too. 

Is it true, what Sharpclaw said about Darktail? 
Hawkwing wondered. That I’m trying to make him 
into my replacement brother? His first instinct was to 
deny it, but then he asked himself whether it would be 
such a bad thing if it was true. 

Duskpaw is gone, and isnt ever coming back, 


he told himself, claws of pain gripping his heart again 
as he put the thought into words. But cats need other 
cats in the wild. Surely its good that I’ve made new 
bonds with other cats like Darktail, and... and 
Pebblepaw. 

Fresh confusion surged into Hawkwing’s mind as 
he thought about the young she-cat. He felt as though 
he was trying to find a path through fog. J hated her 
not long ago... so why am I thinking about her so 
much now? I blamed her for Duskpaws death. Why 
do I hope she missed me when I was away on the 
second quest? 

“Stop!” Waspwhisker’s urgent hiss broke into 
Hawkwing’s thoughts. “Lie flat!” 

Instantly obeying, Hawkwing flopped to the 
ground, his Clanmates doing the same around him, and 
peered out through the long grass. Every hair on his 
pelt began to bristle as he braced himself for trouble. 

Are the raccoons back? 

But when Hawkwing tasted the air, the only scent 
that he could pick up came from cats. Unfamiliar cats. 
Just ahead he spotted a bank of ferns, their fronds 
waving as unseen animals pushed their way through. 


A heartbeat later the fern fronds parted and a 
powerful silver-gray tom strode into the opening. A 
long-furred black she-cat followed him, and behind her 
was a ginger tom, and two tabby she-cats. Their pelts 
were ragged, but muscles rippled beneath their 
ungroomed fur; apprehension fluttered in Hawkwing’s 
belly as he saw how dangerous they looked. 

What are they doing on our territory? he asked 
himself. 

All Hawkwing’s instincts told him to leap out of 
hiding and challenge the approaching rogues. Instead, 
he glanced at Waspwhisker. “We should fight them 
off!” he whispered. 

“Wait,” Waspwhisker ordered curtly. Turning to 
Darktail, he added, “Are these more friends of yours?” 

Darktail shook his head, looking mystified. “I’ve 
never seen any of them before.” 

By this time the leading silver-gray tom had drawn 
level with the clump of long grass where the SkyClan 
cats were hiding. He halted to sniff the air, and 
Hawkwing realized he had picked up the Clan cats’ 
scent. 

Before the tom could react, Waspwhisker rose to 


his paws and faced him. “Who are you, and what are 
you doing here?” he demanded. 

The silver-gray tom looked Waspwhisker over with 
insolent green eyes. “Who wants to know?” he asked. 

“We do.” Hawkwing rose to stand beside 
Waspwhisker, while Bellapaw, Darktail, and 
Sparrowpelt took up positions just behind them. 

“And who are you, mange-pelt?” the silver-gray 
tom sneered, as the rest of the rogues spread out 
threateningly on either side of him. 

“We are cats of SkyClan,” Waspwhisker replied, 
“and you're on our territory. It’s time for you to leave. 
Now.” 

“Oh, we’re on their territory!” the black she-cat 
exclaimed, stretching her eyes wide. “I’m so scared!” 

“Are you going to leave or not?” Waspwhisker’s 
shoulder fur bristled up aggressively. 

The silver-gray tom slid out his claws and raised 
one forepaw to examine them. “I guess . . . not,” he 
mewed. 

“So get out of our way,” one of the tabby she-cats 
ordered. 

Anger flashed in Waspwhisker’s eyes, and he let 


out a ferocious yowl. “Attack!” 

Hawkwing hurled himself at the ginger tom, who 
was closest to him. His paws splayed out, he landed on 
the tom’s shoulders and dug his claws in hard. 
Screeching in fury, the ginger tom let himself drop to 
the ground and rolled over, crushing Hawkwing 
beneath him. For a few heartbeats Hawkwing’s nose 
and mouth were muffled in his enemy’s pelt, so he 
could hardly breathe. Bringing up his hind legs, he 
thrust at the ginger tom and managed to throw him off. 

“Ugh!” he gasped, spitting out fur. “I’ve got a 
mouthful of your fleas!” 

The ginger tom crouched in front of him, green 
eyes glaring, his hindquarters waggling, while his tail 
lashed from side to side. Hawkwing was bracing 
himself to meet his pounce when he spotted 
Sparrowpelt behind the ginger tom, struggling with the 
long-furred black she-cat. The she-cat had 
Sparrowpelt pinned down, her teeth aiming for his 
throat. 

Bunching his muscles, Hawkwing sprang right over 
the ginger tom and barreled into the black she-cat, 
thrusting her away from Sparrowpelt. 


The older warrior staggered to his paws. 
“Thanks!” he panted, and flung himself back into 
combat, driving the black she-cat backward, paw step 
by paw step. 

Hawkwing glanced around, and spotted Bellapaw 
chasing one of the tabby she-cats back into the bank of 
ferns. Waspwhisker and the other tabby she-cat were 
rolling around on the ground in a snarling tangle of tails 
and paws. 

Then Hawkwing’s eyes widened in amazement as 
he saw Darktail whirling around the silver-gray tom, 
darting in to slash at him and immediately leaping back 
out of range. The tom kept trying to face him and 
attack, but Darktail was moving so fast that by the 
time the gray tom managed to strike at him, he had 
moved on. The tom’s claws barely touched him. 

“Flea-pelt! Trespasser!” Darktail yowled. “Get out 
of here!” 

A hard blow caught Hawkwing on the side of the 
head, driving him off his paws. As he hit the ground a 
surging darkness covered his vision, and as it cleared 
he glimpsed green eyes close to his own. A paw 
clamped down on his neck. 


To Hawkwing’s horror he realized that, distracted 
by Darktail’s skillful battle technique, he had forgotten 
about the ginger tom. He writhed furiously, desperate 
to throw off the weight that was holding him down. 
Twisting his neck, he tried to sink his teeth into the 
ginger tom’s leg. 

Just then, a loud caterwaul sounded in Hawkwing’s 
ears. “Back off! Run!” 

The weight on top of him abruptly vanished. 
Hauling himself up, Hawkwing saw the two remaining 
she-cats fleeing for the ferns, with the ginger tom hard 
on their paws. The silver-gray leader, still yowling his 
orders to retreat, brought up the rear. Darktail, 
charging after him, managed to get in a couple of 
blows on the tom’s hindquarters before he vanished 
into the undergrowth. 

Waspwhisker huffed out a long breath. 
“Cowards!” 

Hawkwing was surprised that the fight had ended 
so quickly. He had thought that the two groups were 
well matched, and he had never imagined that the 
rogues would give up so easily. 

But Darktail showed their leader a thing or 


two, he reflected. That mange-pelt couldn t stand up 
to him! 

Hawkwing watched the final quivers of the ferns 
as the rogues beat a retreat, then turned to 
Waspwhisker. “Are you still doubtful about Darktail?” 
he asked. “Look how bravely he fought!” 

Waspwhisker let out a grunt. “That was well 
fought,” he mewed, with a nod to Darktail. “But if the 
rogue had moved a bit faster, what would you have 
done then? He’d have had you at his mercy.” 

Darktail looked up from grooming his shoulder, 
where a tuft of fur had been torn away. “I'd worry 
about that if it happened,” he replied calmly. 

Waspwhisker turned away with a single twitch of 
his tail, showing he was still unconvinced. Hawkwing 
let out a growl of annoyance at the older warrior’s 
grudging praise of the cat who had probably won them 
the battle, then instantly regretted it. 

Waspwhisker was a good mentor to Duskpaw, 
he told himself. / don t want to fight with him. I just 
wish some of my Clanmates would give Darktail a 
break. 

Meanwhile, Waspwhisker was looking over the 


rest of the patrol, checking them for injuries. Every cat 
was carrying a few scratches, but none of them was 
badly injured. 

“Right, let’s finish marking the border,” he growled. 
“And then we’ ll get back to camp and report this.” 

Padding along the new border with his Clanmates, 
Hawkwing’s mind went back to his earlier decision not 
to mention that he had seen Darktail leaving Twoleg 
food on SkyClan territory. 

He fought so well against the rogues, he 
thought. He cant mean any harm to SkyClan. 
Maybe I should just ask him what it was all about. 

“Darktail,” he began, falling in beside the white 
tom, “I saw you yesterday near the Twolegplace.” No 
need to let him know I followed him there. “It looked 
like you had some Twoleg food. . . .” 

Darktail gave him a sidelong glance, half guilty and 
half amused. “I’ve been around a few kittypets in my 
time,” he admitted. “And I kind of got a taste for 
Twoleg scraps. Don’t tell any cat, will you? I think 
Waspwhisker would claw my ears off!” 

“Uh . . . no. But that doesn’t explain why you left 


33 


“You know, I’ve been thinking about those rogues,” 
Darktail interrupted, as if he had dismissed the whole 
question of the Twoleg food. “I wonder if there are 
any more of them around. Maybe Leafstar should set 
a watch.” 

As Darktail moved on with the patrol, Hawkwing 
stopped and raised his head to sniff the air, catching a 
sweetish, rotting smell coming from the edge of a 
nearby bramble thicket. He bounded over to take a 
look, and spotted more Twoleg food there, crumbling 
away into pieces as if the flesh it was made of had 
been clawed into tiny scraps and then somehow 
mashed back together. It was beginning to rot; 
Hawkwing guessed that it had been there for two or 
three days. 

“Hey, Darktail have you seen—” Hawkwing 
began, but as he turned he realized that while he was 
investigating the Twoleg food the rest of the patrol had 
moved on. 

Hawkwing picked up the pace to catch them up, 
and found Darktail chatting amiably to Bellapaw. 
Pleased that for once Darktail was having a friendly 
conversation with a SkyClan cat, Hawkwing didn’t 


interrupt. 

There's no point, he told himself. Whats a bit of 
Twoleg food? Every cat would think I had bees in 
my brain if I made a fuss about it. 





CHAPTER 14 
+ 


As soon as Waspwhisker led the patrolling cats back 
into camp, he bounded over to Leafstar, who was 
sharing fresh-kill with Sharpclaw at the foot of the 
Rockpile. Hawkwing and the others followed; 
Hawkwing noticed that several of his Clanmates, 
sunning themselves on the rocks nearby, sat up with 
ears pricked at the patrol’s rapid approach. 

Pebblepaw was among them, licking one paw and 
drawing it over her ears to give them a thorough wash. 

She looks so cute when she does that! 
Hawkwing thought, then instantly felt ashamed of 
himself. J shouldnt be thinking like that when the 
Clan is in danger! 

“Leafstar,’ Waspwhisker announced breathlessly 
as he halted in front of the Clan leader, “rogues 
attacked us in the forest!” 

Instantly Leafstar sprang to her paws. “What? 
Where? Tell me everything!” 

“Just where we were setting the new border 
markers,” Waspwhisker explained, while more of the 


SkyClan cats gathered around to listen. “There were 
five of them, led by a huge silver-gray brute.” 

“We told them to get off our territory,’ Hawkwing 
added. “But they wouldn’t go, so we had to fight them. 
We—” 

He was interrupted by a storm of questions and 
protests from his Clanmates, who pressed closer 
around the patrol, their fur bristling at the news of the 
attack. 

“First raccoons, now rogues! What next?” 

“How dare they? This is our place!” 

“Are we still safe here?” 

Drawn by the clamor, more SkyClan warriors 
appeared from their dens, scrambling down the trail or 
leaping from rock to rock until the stretch of ground 
beside the Rockpile was a heaving mass of cats. 

Hawkwing found that Pebblepaw was by his side, 
gazing at him with anxious eyes. 

“Are you okay?” she asked. 

Hawkwing felt a hint of warmth deep in his belly 
that Pebblepaw was concerned for him. “I’m fine,” he 
replied. “Just a bit bruised.” 

Pebblepaw still held him with her gaze, making 


Hawkwing feel awkward and yet strangely excited. 
“That’s good,” she murmured at last. 

Before Hawkwing could respond, Leafstar fought 
her way through the crowd of cats and jumped up the 
mass of boulders until she stood at the top, with 
Sharpclaw close behind her. 

“Cats of SkyClan!” she yowled, flourishing her tail 
for silence. “Listen to me!” 

But several moments passed until the caterwauling 
died down enough for the Clan leader to make herself 
heard. 

“IPs vital that we don’t panic,’ she began. 
“Waspwhisker, did you drive the rogues away?” 

“We did,” Waspwhisker replied with a lash of his 
tail. 

“But they’ll be back!” Sagenose called out from 
the crowd. 

“Yes, how long can we keep fighting?” 
Nettlesplash asked. 

“And what about the kits?” Birdwing added. 

The Clan erupted again into renewed clamor, until 
Cherrytail leaped onto a boulder beside the stream and 
managed to raise her voice above her Clanmates’. 


“Leafstar, the whole of the Clan should hunt down 
these rogues immediately,” she meowed. “We have to 
teach them that they can’t mess with SkyClan!” 

His mother’s words woke a fire of determination 
inside Hawkwing. “Yes!” he yowled, kneading the 
ground eagerly with his forepaws. “Let’s do it!” 

He was even more encouraged to see that his 
father, Sharpclaw, was nodding in agreement. ‘TIl lead 
a patrol—” he began. 

“That’s crazy,” Plumwillow interrupted. 

“Yes,” Firefern agreed. “Since the raccoons first 
attacked, we’ve lost the daylight warriors, and 
StarClan knows when their Twolegs will let them out 
again. We’re not as strong as we used to be.” 

“And so many of our warriors are new,” 
Plumwillow pointed out. “They’re good, strong cats, 
but not exactly experienced fighters.” 

Hawkwing began to bristle at the gray she-cat’s 
words. How many badgers have you fought off, 
flea-brain? But he managed not to speak his thought 
out loud. 

“I agree with Plumwillow,” Bouncefire mewed, a 
hint of fear in his voice. “We’re more vulnerable than 


we’ve ever been. If we can’t protect our territory, then 
is this the end of SkyClan?” 

“Who says we can’t protect our territory?” 
Mistfeather snarled. 

“But the rogues . . . ,” Firefern protested. 

“Silence!” Leafstar hissed, lashing her tail. “I will 
not hear such talk. Have you forgotten our history?” 
she went on when the outcry had died down into 
something approaching quiet. “SkyClan has endured so 
much. When Twolegs invaded our old territory and 
drove us out, when the other Clans refused to share 
with us—not even that could end SkyClan. And this 
new attack won’t, either!” 

Sharpclaw let out a discontented snort. “I know my 
history as well as any cat,’ he grumbled. “And I’ve 
been wondering why we’re so keen to find the spark 
that remains—if that really does mean the kin of 
Firestar—when the other Clans are at least part of the 
reason why we were driven to settle here in the gorge 
in the first place.” 

“Yes, the other Clans have failed us in the past,” 
Leafstar admitted. “But if StarClan says that we must 
find ThunderClan, their will is not to be questioned.” 


“But so far,’ Tinycloud put in, “trying to follow the 
will of StarClan has only led us into trouble.” 

At her words, true silence fell over all the SkyClan 
cats, and the gaze of every cat turned to Echosong. 
The medicine cat was sitting on a rock at the edge of 
the crowd, with Frecklewish at her side. Hawkwing 
realized that so far she hadn’t added anything to the 
discussion. 

“I confess that I’m confused,” Echosong mewed 
after a moment’s pause. “I don’t believe that I’ve 
misinterpreted my visions, but there must be something 
that I’m not seeing.” 

“Can’t you seek out StarClan?” Darktail, who had 
sat silent all this while at the foot of the Rockpile, rose 
to his paws and turned to Echosong. “Can’t you ask 
them for more details?” 

Hawkwing twitched his whiskers in annoyance at 
the rogue tom’s tone, which was close to disrespectful. 
Then he shrugged, reflecting that Darktail wasn’t a 
Clan cat, and didn’t know Clan ways, especially how a 
medicine cat should be treated by her Clanmates. He 
doesnt mean to insult Echosong. 

“It doesn’t work like that,” Echosong told Darktail, 


her tail drooping. “I should have expected that 
StarClan would have given me some kind of new sign 
by now—but they haven’t. If StarClan had wanted to 
warn us about this new attack, they would have done 
so.” 

“So does that mean this StarClan has no interest in 
saving SkyClan?” Rain protested, rising to stand beside 
Darktail. His tone was even more brusque. “Is that 
what you're getting at?” 

Echosong hesitated before replying. A thrill of pure 
dread tingled through Hawkwing as he realized that 
even the medicine cat might not be totally sure of what 
their Clan’s destiny was meant to be. 

“Maybe . . . maybe this is our chance to prove 
ourselves to StarClan,” Echosong suggested at last, 
though her voice and her flustered look drained all the 
conviction out of her words. “But how or why. . .” 
The medicine cat shook her head. “I don’t know.” 

A horrible silence fell over the Clan as the cats 
exchanged dismayed glances. What will happen to us 
now, Hawkwing wondered, if our medicine cat cant 
advise us anymore? 

“Cats of SkyClan!” Leafstar meowed after a few 


heartbeats. Clearly she was trying to force energy and 
certainty into her voice. “We will not do anything rash. 
We will protect our camp and our borders, as we 
always do. These rogues won’t drive us out—we’ll 
never let that happen. And we will wait for the next 
message from StarClan. I’m sure it will be coming 
soon. Now go to your duties.” 

As the Clan began to disperse, the cats muttering 
uneasily to each other, Hawkwing wished that he could 
believe what Leafstar had said. Even more, he wished 
that he was sure Leafstar believed it herself. 


Hawkwing joined a hunting patrol and returned just 
after sunhigh with a squirrel for the fresh-kill pile. All 
through the hunt he had been distracted, remembering 
the battle against the rogues and worrying about the 
troubles that were gathering like thick shadows around 
his Clan. 

When he had dropped his prey on the pile, 
Hawkwing spotted Sharpclaw grooming himself beside 
the river. Longing flooded over him to ask his father’s 
advice, and whether there was anything he could do to 
help in this crisis. 

But as he padded toward Sharpclaw, Hawkwing 


felt tension cramping his muscles, and his belly 
fluttered with nervousness. Sharpclaw has been 
angry with me for so long, hes not going to want to 
advise me now. 

Hawkwing paused for a moment, his gaze fixed on 
Sharpclaw, who was vigorously washing his belly, quite 
unaware that his son was hovering nearby. Then, 
letting his tail droop, Hawkwing turned and began 
trudging back to his own den. 

But as he reached the bottom of the trail, his 
mother, Cherrytail, bounded up to him and intercepted 
him before he could begin to climb. 

“What’s the matter, Hawkwing?” she asked. 
“Don’t you want to talk to your father?” 

“He won't want to talk to me,” Hawkwing 
muttered. 

Cherrytail gave an irritated twitch of her whiskers. 
“Oh, get over yourself!” she exclaimed. Then, more 
gently, she added, “Sharpclaw will forgive you if you 
apologize to him. You might even get an apology in 
return.” 

Anger spurted up inside Hawkwing. “Why do I 
need to apologize? Why is it still all my fault?” he 


demanded, his shoulder fur beginning to bristle. 
“Anyway, that wasn’t what I wanted to talk about.” 

“Then what was it?” his mother asked. 

Her quiet voice, and her eyes full of sympathy, 
quenched Hawkwing’s anger. 

“I'm worried about what happens now,” he 
confessed reluctantly, feeling as weak and fearful as a 
lost kit. “Is this what life is going to be like from now 
on? Always struggling, always looking out for attacks? 
Raccoons, rogues, or badgers—they’re all as vicious 
as each other. How bad are things going to get for 
SkyClan?” 

“I don’t know,” Cherrytail admitted, heaving a sigh 
from the depths of her chest. “And there’s one thing I 
won't say to the rest of the Clan. I’m afraid of what 
will happen if SkyClan is driven out of this territory as 
we were driven out of our old home.” 

“Do you think that will happen?” Hawkwing asked, 
alarmed. That's worse than I ever imagined! 

Cherrytail’s eyes were thoughtful. “Surviving our 
exile from our first territory is what made SkyClan 
who we are,” she murmured. “Of course, I don’t know 
for sure, but I suspect that the other four Clans, 


wherever they are, don’t have anything close to our 
spirit, because they’ve never been through the same 
troubles.” 

“But that should make us stronger, right?” 
Hawkwing suggested. 

Cherrytail nodded. “True, but it took a long time— 
and a visit from Firestar and Sandstorm—before we 
could find a way to put ourselves right. I’m afraid that 
if we are driven into exile again, SkyClan may be lost 
forever.” 


Too troubled to sleep, Hawkwing crouched at the 
entrance to the warriors’ den and gazed out across the 
gorge. The moon was barely a claw-scratch, making 
the stars blaze out more brightly than ever. 

“Oh, StarClan,” Hawkwing breathed out. “What 
are you doing to us?” 

Behind him, he could hear his Clanmates shifting in 
their nests; he didn’t think any of them were sleeping, 
either. We’re all so afraid that the rogues will come 
and attack us in the camp. He angled his ears 
forward, trying to pick up any strange sounds beyond 
the gorge, but all he could hear was the wind rustling in 
the trees. 


Ever since he had spoken to his mother, her 
ominous words had repeated themselves in 
Hawkwing’s mind. SkyClan may be lost forever. 

He didn’t want to believe that could be true. 

Hawkwing knew he was young; he hadn’t lived 
through SkyClan’s most trying days. Still, the Clan 
meant more to him than he could possibly say. Even 
though he’d gone searching for the other Clans, it was 
difficult for him to imagine a life outside the gorge he 
loved so fiercely, or away from these cats who were 
all like kin to him. Spending time with Darktail, a 
former rogue, had only emphasized the value of his 
Clan to Hawkwing. We look out for each other, he 
thought now. We put the Clan first, and ourselves 
second. Thats important. He paused, looking up at 
the narrow moon and his ancestors twinkling in the 
sky. And what would it say to StarClan if we let 
SkyClan fall? he wondered. So many cats have 
fought so valiantly to preserve SkyClan, through 
the seasons. Those cats dated all the way back to 
Skystar—the great founder of SkyClan. 

We have to save our Clan. 

Every hair on Hawkwing’s pelt began to tingle, but 


this time it was not with fear. He felt a fierceness run 
through his body, powerful as flame, a determination to 
make sure that the worst would never happen. 

As long as I’m alive, SkyClan will never be 
exiled. We will always survive! 





CHAPTER 15 
+ 


The dawn patrol had just returned, reporting no sign 
or scent of the rogues on SkyClan territory. Even so, 
Hawkwing was still aware of deep uneasiness within 
the Clan. Echosong had still received no further visits 
from StarClan, and every cat knew that their future 
was desperately uncertain. 

At the foot of the Rockpile, Sharpclaw was 
organizing the hunting patrols. “Sparrowpelt, you lead 
one,” he instructed, “and Waspwhisker, you take 
another. Pll lead the third. Leafstar wants senior 
warriors to go out more, just in case we run into any of 
the rogues.” 

“Right, Sharpclaw,” Sparrowpelt meowed, sliding 
out his claws. “I'd be delighted to run into them. I 
could use some extra fur to line my nest.” 

“Hawkwing, you're with me,” Sharpclaw 
continued, as the cats began to divide into three 
groups. “You too, Darktail. We know you can fight, but 
I haven’t seen your hunting technique yet.” 

“Gladly, Sharpclaw,” Darktail responded with a 


brisk nod. 

Hawkwing was pleased, too, that his father had 
chosen him for his patrol. Maybe he's not so angry 
with me anymore. 

While Sharpclaw was supervising the departure of 
the other patrols, Darktail sidled up to Hawkwing and 
stood so close that their pelts were brushing. 

“Have you seen your friend this morning?” he 
asked Hawkwing, angling his ears toward Pebblepaw, 
who was chatting with Rain over their fresh-kill a few 
tail-lengths away. 

Immediately Hawkwing’s pelt grew hot with 
embarrassment. “My friend?” he muttered. 

“Pebblepaw. I’ve seen you staring at her,” Darktail 
meowed, a gleam of amusement in his eyes. “Don’t try 
to tell me you don’t like her.” 

“Uh...” Hawkwing scrabbled on the ground with 
his forepaws. 

“You need to talk to her more and figure out what 
your feelings are,” Darktail continued. “You won't get 
any closer to doing that by avoiding her!” 

“Pm not avoiding her,’ Hawkwing mewed 
defensively. 


“And hedgehogs fly!” Darktail scoffed. “Besides, 
from the way Pebblepaw looks at you, she needs to 
sort out her feelings, too.” 

Hawkwing blinked with a mixture of hope that 
Darktail might be right, and awkwardness that the 
rogue was forcing him to discuss it. “I don’t think so... 
. >” he murmured. 

Darktail flicked Hawkwing’s ear with the tip of his 
tail. “Either Pebblepaw likes you back, or she doesn’t, 
but you need to know the truth, so you can make a 
decision before it’s too late.” 

With a massive effort, Hawkwing let out a huff of 
laughter. “I’m still a young cat,” he mewed, “and 
Pebblepaw is still an apprentice. It’s way too early to 
start thinking about time running out.” 

Pd never admit it to Darktail, he added to 
himself, but I have started to think about the future. 
It feels really weird. 

Darktail shook his head, still amused. “That’s not 
what I meant.” 

Hawkwing realized there was something odd about 
Darktail’s tone of voice. “Whether I’m with 
Pebblepaw or not can’t be that serious, can it?” he 


asked. 

“Of course it can,” the rogue tom replied, his voice 
still dark and ominous. “It is the most serious choice. 
You can’t afford to make a mistake when choosing 
which cats to have by your side.” 

To Hawkwing’s relief, before he could say more, 
Sharpclaw called to them to head out on patrol. As the 
other two groups had climbed the trails to hunt in the 
forest above the gorge, Sharpclaw led his cats 
downstream toward the stretch of shrubs and spindly 
trees that grew on either side of the river where the 
gorge widened out. 

Hawkwing hoped that this would be a good 
opportunity to straighten things out with his father, but 
his belly churned with anxiety at the thought that 
Sharpclaw might snap at him again. Besides, he didn’t 
want to talk about anything important with Sharpclaw 
where Darktail might overhear. 

Instead, Hawkwing concentrated on picking up the 
traces of prey, hoping that he might impress his father 
with a good catch. As they slid into the scrubby 
undergrowth Sharpclaw halted, then plunged into the 
shadow of an elder bush and emerged with a mouse 


dangling from his jaws. 

“Good job!” Darktail mewed admiringly. “I never 
even smelled it.” 

Sharpclaw twitched his whiskers. “Figures.” 

Hawkwing could see that his father was still not 
impressed with Darktail He wished that the white 
rogue could catch something, if only to dispel the frosty 
atmosphere that had spread through the patrol. 

When Sharpclaw had scratched earth over the 
mouse so it could be collected later, the patrol moved 
on. Padding alongside the river, Hawkwing came to a 
spot where the bank had crumbled away into a sandy 
spit of land stretching out into the current. A vole was 
scrabbling around among the pebbles. 

Hawkwing dropped into the hunter’s crouch and 
began to creep up on his prey, when something white 
flashed past him and he saw Darktail hurl himself off 
the bank and land on top of the vole, crushing it 
between his forepaws. 

“T smelled that one,” he announced as he picked up 
his fresh-kill and leaped back onto the bank. 

Hawkwing tried not to be annoyed that Darktail 
had stolen what had clearly been his prey. What 


matters is that the Clan is fed. But it was still 
irritating, especially when he had hoped to show off his 
hunting skills to his father. 

The patrol padded on, getting farther and farther 
from the camp. Hawkwing became more alert still, his 
pelt prickling with apprehension as he wondered if they 
might meet the rogues again. A flicker of movement in 
the bushes drew his attention, but it was only a rabbit, 
hopping into the open with no idea of the danger it was 
in. But clearly if any cat startled it, it would head 
straight back into the safety of the undergrowth. 

“Hawkwing,” Sharpclaw whispered. 

When Hawkwing glanced at his father, Sharpclaw 
waved his tail in a wide sweep, while he angled his 
ears toward the rabbit. 

He wants me to circle around and come up 
behind it. 

Hawkwing set off, careful to keep his distance 
from the rabbit, and made sure that the breeze 
wouldn’t carry his scent toward his prey. He noticed 
that Sharpclaw had gestured with his tail for Darktail 
to keep back. 

Reaching the bushes, Hawkwing burrowed into 


them, creeping along cautiously until he could peer out 
from underneath a branch and spot the rabbit still 
peacefully nibbling at the grass. He risked raising his 
tail above the foliage to tell Sharpclaw that he was in 
position. 

At once Sharpclaw let out a ferocious growl and 
sprang at the rabbit. It let out a squeal of terror and 
dashed for the bushes with Sharpclaw racing after tt. 
Hawkwing tensed his muscles. / mustn t lose this one! 

The rabbit fled into the bushes, almost flinging itself 
into Hawkwing’s paws. Hawkwing gripped it with his 
forepaws and killed it with a rapid bite to its neck. 
Warm triumph flooded through him as he emerged 
from cover with his prey in his jaws. 

“Well done, both of you,” Darktail meowed, though 
his voice was cool, and Hawkwing wondered if the 
rogue wasn’t too thrilled to see him and his father 
working together as a team. 

But why would that bother him? 

As Hawkwing padded up, Sharpclaw gave him an 
approving nod. Though he said nothing, Hawkwing felt 
that perhaps the tension between him and his father 
was beginning to ease a little. 


But Sharpclaw still seemed distant as the three 
cats made their way back to camp. 

I wish I could talk to him, Hawkwing thought, 
thinking back to his conversation with Cherrytail. But 1 
dont know what to say anymore. 


When they had deposited their prey on the fresh- 
kill pile, Sharpclaw bounded away toward Leafstar’s 
den, while Darktail headed off to talk to Rain. 

Hawkwing couldn’t help feeling disappointed that 
Sharpclaw hadn’t been warmer after they had hunted 
so well together. He remembered what Darktail had 
said to him before they set out, about cats needing to 
choose who they wanted by their side. 

Maybe my father has chosen not to be by my 
side, Hawkwing thought miserably. Could that be 
true? Then he gave his pelt a shake, determined to be 
more cheerful. Jt can t be true—Sharpclaw and I are 
kin. Whatever has happened between us, that 
loyalty must always be there. His mood lightening, 
Hawkwing told himself that eventually he and his 
father would be okay together. Neither of us is going 
anywhere. We have our whole lives to work this 
out. 


Darktail’s words had made Hawkwing aware of 
something else, too. He decided it was time to go 
looking for Pebblepaw, and found her crouching beside 
the river where it had scoured out the bank into a 
shallow pool. She kept dabbing her paw into the water, 
sending up a shower of glittering drops. 

I never noticed how her fur shines, he thought. 
And the way she moves her paw is so graceful! 

Pebblepaw looked up as Hawkwing padded up to 
her. “Hi” she greeted him. “Did you know there are 
fish in here? But they won’t let me catch them.” 

Hawkwing looked into the pool and saw minnows, 
tiny silver flashes darting here and there near the 
sandy bottom. He watched them, not looking at 
Pebblepaw, as he mewed, “I wanted to tell you 


something.” 

“Okay... .” Pebblepaw sounded puzzled, but still 
friendly. 

Hawkwing dug his claws nervously into the 
ground. “I... I wanted to say how sorry I am, about 


the way I treated you after Duskpaw died. I want you 
to know that I never actually blamed you.” 
He risked a glance at Pebblepaw and saw that she 


was blinking at him happily. “I kind of figured that out,” 
she responded. 

“You did?” Hawkwing was relieved to hear this. 

Pebblepaw half turned away, obviously 
embarrassed, which made Hawkwing feel 
embarrassed in his turn. Yet at the same time 
excitement was tingling through him. 

“Well. ..uh... that’s it, really,” he went on. “I 
guess we can be friends now.” 

Pebblepaw gave him a flickering glance. “T guess.” 

Hawkwing dipped his head to her and retreated, 
feeling Pebblepaw’s gaze following him as he headed 
for his den. He felt better now that he had told her he 
was sorry, but he was still confused when he thought 
about her. 

I wonder if she feels just as confused when she 
thinks about me. 

That night, Hawkwing was still feeling a prickle of 
excitement about his talk with Pebblepaw when he 
settled down into his nest to sleep. He wanted to stay 
awake and think about her, but he was exhausted, his 
limbs aching, after the hunt. 

His Clanmates were curled up around him too, the 


fear and tension of the night before beginning to ease. 
The Clan had fed well, and the patrols had found no 
traces of rogues or raccoons. 

Maybe everything will be okay after all... . 


Hawkwing jerked awake. He sat up in his nest, not 
sure at first what had roused him. Then he heard it 
again: the creak and rustle of bushes, coming from 
overhead, as if some creature was pushing its way 
through the undergrowth. 

Hawkwing’s first instinct was to rouse his Clan. 
But then he realized that every cat was asleep, and 
wouldn’t thank him for disturbing the whole Clan if the 
sound meant nothing. 

Rising to his paws, Hawkwing picked his way 
across the den, slipping silently between Sandynose 
and a gently snoring Rabbitleap, and emerged onto the 
trail outside. There was a little more moonlight than on 
the night before, but the frosty shimmer revealed 
nothing moving as far as Hawkwing could see. 

A gentle breeze was blowing from the far side of 
the gorge, bearing nothing except the familiar scents of 
the forest. Hawkwing was about to give up and go 
back inside when he heard the rustling sound again, 


coming from the top of the trail. 

Could it be raccoons? he asked himself, tensing. 
Or rogues, or dogs—or even Twolegs? 

He tasted the air, but he could still pick up nothing 
unusual, nothing alarming. 

Then the breeze shifted, blowing now from the top 
of the gorge. Now scent flooded over Hawkwing, so 
strong that it was unmistakable. 

Cats! 

As Hawkwing stared in horror, dark shapes 
appeared at the top of the cliff, flowing like water as 
they swarmed down the trails. More and more of them 
appeared, more cats than he had imagined in his worst 
fears. He caught a glimpse of moonlight shining on the 
pelt of the silver-gray tom. 

Rogues, he realized. The rogues who attacked us 
on patrol—but there are more of them now. So many 
more! They may outnumber us... . 

His heart pounded as he realized what was 
happening. 

Rogue cats were attacking the SkyClan camp! 





CHAPTER 16 
+ 


“Rogues!” Hawkwing yowled. “Rogues in the 
camp!” 

He shot back inside the warriors” den, stumbling 
over the sleeping bodies of his Clanmates as he poked 
and prodded them into wakefulness. 

“Get up!” he urged them. “Rogues are attacking! 
They’re here in the camp! Lots of them!” 

The SkyClan cats struggled to their paws, so 
confused by sleep that they were hardly able to take in 
Hawkwing's panicked yowls. 

“Take it easy,” Sparrowpelt yawned. “You’ve had 
a bad dream, that’s all No need to wake the whole 
Clan.” He yawned again and added, “Stormheart’s on 
watch. She would warn us if—” 

A screech coming from the bottom of the gorge 
interrupted what Sparrowpelt was saying. Hawkwing 
reached out a paw and roughly shook the senior 
warrior’s shoulder. 

“That was Stormheart,” he meowed. “And this is 
no dream. We have to fight.” 


Hawkwing rapidly checked that his mother and 
sisters were rousing. Then, knowing that Stormheart 
was alone beside the Rockpile, he darted outside again 
and bounded down the trail behind the wave of 
attacking cats. As he hurtled downward he let out 
more warning yowls. 

Leafstar was already awake, emerging from her 
den and stretching her jaws in a long caterwaul before 
racing down the trail just ahead of Hawkwing. 

A quick glance over his shoulder showed 
Hawkwing that his Clanmates were following, fully 
roused now and shrieking defiance. Sharpclaw was in 
the lead, his paws hardly touching the rocks as he 
hurled himself toward his Clan's enemies. 

Yes! Hawkwing thought with a touch of pride. My 
father will fight them off! 

He couldn't spot Darktail, and briefly wondered 
where the rogue tom was, but there was no time to 
think about that now. 

Pebblepaw and Parsleypaw bundled out of the 
apprentices” den, their eyes wide and their fur bushing 
up. Bellapaw and Rileypaw followed. 

“Stay back!” Hawkwing snapped. “This is no 


place for apprentices.” 

“Fox dung to that!” Pebblepaw hissed through 
clenched teeth, as the four young cats fell in behind 
Hawkwing. 

They’re all so brave! Hawkwing couldn’t help but 
be impressed, even while he felt that the apprentices 
would have been safer in their den. 

A shriek sounded from the bottom of the gorge, 
abruptly cut off. Every drop of Hawkwing’s blood 
seemed to freeze. Stormheart! 

With a final massive leap, Hawkwing slammed into 
the rear of the rogue attack. For a few moments he 
struggled with fur pressing in on him from every side, 
unable to get any strength behind his blows. He thrust 
at the bodies surrounding him, finally managing to win 
a little space for himself. At last he could attack, his 
paws splayed out, his claws slashing in a hot surge of 
fury, as he struck out at random, not knowing or caring 
who his enemies were. 

Then a face loomed up in front of him, and he 
recognized the ginger tom he had fought when 
Waspwhisker’s patrol were setting the border markers. 

“Oh, you again!” the ginger tom snarled. “You 


want to finish what we started?” 

“Mange-pelt!” Hawkwing snarled, raking his claws 
across the ginger tom’s muzzle. “Get out of our 
camp!” 

The tom staggered back, clearly startled at 
Hawkwing’s swift response. Hawkwing felt a grim 
satisfaction as he saw dark drops welling out of the 
wound he had made, and the reek of blood hit him in 
the throat. 

He ducked as the ginger tom swept his forepaw 
around in a blow aimed at his shoulder; the rogue cat’s 
claws passed harmlessly through his fur, and 
Hawkwing managed to butt his head into the tom’s 
belly, unbalancing him. 

Another rogue—a black-and-white tom—pressed 
forward into the gap between Hawkwing and his 
opponent, his claws reaching for Pebblepaw, who was 
still fighting at Hawkwing’s side. Instinctively 
Hawkwing slipped in front of the apprentice, shielding 
her as he dug his claws into the black-and-white tom’s 
shoulder. 

“Get out of here!” he gasped to Pebblepaw. 

The young she-cat didn’t even bother to reply. 


Instead, she leaped at the rogue tom on the other side 
and raked her claws along his flank. The tom let out a 
screech and backed off, disappearing into the fray. 

Hawkwing felt furious with Pebblepaw, terrified 
and proud all at once. They exchanged a glance, 
Hawkwing gave her a nod of acknowledgment, then 
both cats sprang back into the battle. 

The first heaving bundle of fighting cats had begun 
to split up into separate skirmishes straggling alongside 
the river. In a brief respite, Hawkwing saw that his 
Clanmates were holding their own, even though they 
were outnumbered by the band of rogues. 

If only we had our daylight warriors! he 
thought. Then a sudden realization hit him. The rogues 
must have been watching us. They must have known 
that the Twolegs were keeping our Clanmates 
inside because of the raccoons! 

He noticed too that clouds were building up 
overhead, blotting out the stars. The moon gleamed 
fitfully through the gaps. The air was heavy and damp, 
and Hawkwing felt the first fat drops of rain spatter 
onto his pelt. 

He had lost sight of Pebblepaw, and as he glanced 


around, desperately trying to spot her, he saw 
Sandynose near the foot of the cliff, pnned down by 
an enormous tabby rogue, who slashed his claws again 
and again over the Clan cat’s shoulders. Sandynose 
was writhing furiously in an effort to throw him off. 

Hawkwing hurled himself across the ground and 
barreled into the side of the tabby tom, flinging him 
against the rock face. The tabby let out a yelp of pain, 
all the breath driven out of him. Before he could 
recover, Hawkwing scored his claws down his 
hindquarters, and drove him off, yowling, into the night. 

“Thanks!” Sandynose gasped, staggering to his 
paws, then bounding off to where Waspwhisker was 
tussling with a skinny tortoiseshell rogue. 

In the darkness and the rain—growing heavier 
with every heartbeat—it was becoming harder to 
distinguish the Clan cats from the rogues. Hawkwing 
spotted a ginger tom racing toward him and whirled 
around, one forepaw raised to strike. 

“Hey, it’s me!” 

Hawkwing recognized Bouncefire’s voice, and 
lowered his paw. “Sorry.” 

Beyond Bouncefire, Hawkwing made out the pale 


pelt of Darktail. “This way,” the white tom meowed, 
angling his ears toward a cluster of the invading rogues 
who were battling Tinycloud, Rabbitleap, and 
Harrybrook at the very edge of the river. 

Hawkwing sprang forward with Bouncefire next to 
him, and Darktail on the ginger tom’s other side. A 
rogue cat leaped into their path to stop them, but 
Hawkwing pushed him aside with one swipe of his 
claws. 

With Bouncefire and Darktail beside him, 
Hawkwing suddenly felt more optimistic. We can win 
this battle! 

Another rogue hurtled toward them, closest to 
Darktail; Hawkwing held off, expecting that the white 
tom would throw himself into the attack. Instead, 
Darktail whipped around, letting the rogue race past 
unscathed. 

“Darktail. . . what—?” Hawkwing began. 

Darktail ignored him. With a snarl of mingled fury 
and triumph, he sank his claws into Bouncefire’s neck. 

Sheer shock kept Hawkwing frozen for a moment. 
Bouncefire too was so astonished that for a couple of 
heartbeats he was unable to defend himself. In that 


moment Darktail threw himself on top of the ginger 
tom, pinning him to the ground and tearing at his throat. 
Blood gushed out; Bouncefire’s legs jerked 
spasmodically and then he went limp. 

“Darktail!” Hawkwing choked out. “What are you 
doing?” 

Darktail didn’t reply. For a moment he stood 
motionless over Bouncefire’s body, his jaws still red 
with the ginger tom’s blood. 

He looks like a killer Hawkwing thought in a 
whirl of confusion and grief. Who is this cat? 

Darktail spun around again and flung himself into 
the tussle beside the river, aligning himself to fight on 
the side of the rogues. Hawkwing forced his paralyzed 
limbs into motion and bounded after him as a horrible 
realization washed over him. 

“Traitor!” he yowled. “Traitor! I trusted you!” 

Was it all lies? If Darktail was fighting on the side 
of the rogues, then clearly he’d never been a true 
friend to SkyClan. What else had he lied about? 
Knowing the other Clans? The quests? Hawkwig's 
blood ran cold when it suddenly occurred to him that 
Darktail must have been planning this attack— 


manipulating SkyClan as he and his rogue friends 
prepared for it. Was every moment he spent here part 
of some twisted plan? 

He thought again of the Twoleg food and thought 
he might be sick. He was up to something... . 

Spotting Hawkwing, the white tom stepped aside 
from the combat and waited calmly as Hawkwing 
drew closer and closer. He seemed as confident as if 
he was about to slam his paws down on a mouse. 

Pll claw that smug look off his face! 

But just as Hawkwing’s claws were reaching for 
Darktail, a heavy body slammed into him from one 
side. His paws skidded and he fell, to find himself 
looking up into the face of the silver-gray tom who had 
led the trespassing patrol the day before. 

How long has Darktail known these rogues? 
Hawkwing wondered. How long has he been 
planning this? From the moment he first showed 
up? 

The gray tom swooped down on him, aiming for his 
throat. Hawkwing’s foreleg flashed upward and he 
planted his paw in the tom’s face, digging his claws 
into his muzzle as he pushed his head back. 


The rogue cat let out a screech, batting 
Hawkwing’s paw away and thumping down on top of 
him, almost smothering him. He tried to bring up his 
hind paws to batter at his enemy, but the tom was too 
heavy for him to shift. 

Twisting from side to side in his struggle to escape, 
Hawkwing spotted his father, Sharpclaw, battling 
fiercely with two rogue cats: the long-furred black she- 
cat from the previous day’s patrol, and a mottled black- 
and-gray tom. In spite of his own peril Hawkwing had 
to admire his father as Sharpclaw whirled from one 
rogue to the other, beating both of them back toward 
the water’s edge. 

As Hawkwing watched, Leafstar appeared out of 
the darkness and slashed her claws at the she-cat, who 
whipped around and fled. Sharpclaw gave the mottled 
tom a shove; the rogue tottered for a heartbeat on the 
very edge of the river, then fell into the torrent with a 
shriek and disappeared. 

Hawkwing wanted to let out a yowl of triumph for 
his father, but the gray tom had clamped a paw down 
on his neck, and he could hardly breathe. 

Then to his horror he saw Darktail sneaking up 


behind Sharpclaw, his belly pressed to the ground as if 
he was stalking prey. Hawkwing made a massive 
effort to call out a warning, but the feeble choking 
sound was all he could manage, and it was lost in the 
clamor of the battle. He felt a hot stickiness in his 
throat, as if this were a nightmare where he could only 
watch the terrible combat unfold, and not do anything 
to stop it. Sharpclaw, look out! 

Darktail sprang, aiming to land on Sharpclaw’s 
back, but at the last instant Sharpclaw seemed to 
become aware of him, and slipped to one side so that 
Darktail landed hard on the rock. He was briefly 
winded; Sharpclaw stood over him, one paw raised, but 
clearly puzzled. 

“What's gotten into you?” he demanded. “How 
could you betray SkyClan?” 

Kill him—now! Hawkwing wanted to cry out, but 
the gray tom was still pressing down on his throat. 
Hawkwing’s vision began to spin away in a dark spiral, 
but he kept on struggling to stay conscious and throw 
off his attacker. 

He saw Darktail recover and spring at Sharpclaw 
again. “I was never part of SkyClan!” the rogue tom 


snarled. 

Sharpclaw’s confusion was replaced by shock, but 
now he was no longer in doubt. He retaliated with a 
familiar battle move, leaping up and twisting in the air 
to land behind Darktail and lash his claws across the 
rogue’s hindquarters. Darktail spun around and reared 
up, bringing his forepaws down hard on Sharpclaw’s 
shoulders. Sharpclaw rolled away and jumped to his 
paws again, leaping out of range. 

Hawkwing tensed his muscles and tried to get free, 
but the gray tom held him down. Hawkwing kicked 
and thrashed, but it was no good. 

When he looked back, he saw that blood was 
dripping down Darktail's face as he stalked after 
Sharpclaw, who was crouched and ready to pounce. 
Then Hawkwing noticed that Darktail was holding his 
tail high, waving it to and fro like a branch in the wind. 

He spotted a flicker of gray from the corner of his 
eye. Painfully twisting his head around, he saw that 
Darktail’s friend Rain was creeping up on Sharpclaw 
from behind. The waving tail was a signal! 

Hawkwing made another desperate effort to cry 
out and warn his father, but the paw pressing on his 


throat still stifled his voice. Despair filled him as he 
watched, helpless. This must be a nightmare. My 
father is in danger, and there's nothing I can do! 

Rain let out a hiss; distracted by the sound, 
Sharpclaw glanced over his shoulder. In the same 
heartbeat, Darktail leaped. He landed on Sharpclaw’s 
shoulders and slashed a paw over his throat and down 
his belly. Rain leaped on Sharpclaw from behind and 
held him down while Darktail slashed at him again. 
Blood streamed out of Sharpclaw’s body. 

Shock and anger surged through Hawkwing, giving 
him a last burst of energy. He threw off the silver-gray 
tom and rushed forward to his father’s side. “Get off 
him!” he croaked out, his voice still hoarse. 

Darktail jumped up, and Rain withdrew a pace, as 
if they were obeying Hawkwing’s order. But 
Hawkwing knew that wasn’t the reason. The rogues 
had finished their deadly work, and Hawkwing was too 
late. He saw his father’s limbs spasm in a final 
convulsion and then lie still. The last flicker of light died 
from his green eyes. 

‘No... no. ,” Hawkwing gasped. This cant 
be happenin This can t be real! 


Darktail stepped forward, putting himself between 
Hawkwing and his dead father. Hatred surged up in 
Hawkwing as he bunched his muscles to leap on the 
white tom, but Darktail simply gave him a push with 
one paw. Exhausted from his battle with the silver-gray 
rogue, Hawkwing staggered back. 

“Why?” he choked out, stunned by the depths of 
the rogue cat’s cruelty. “Why have you turned on us? 
We never did you any harm.” 

“I never turned on you,” Darktail sneered. “My 
plan was to destroy SkyClan all along.” 

Destroy SkyClan? Hawkwing remembered his 
conversation with Cherrytail, and her fear that being 
driven from the gorge would end SkyClan. Was that 
what Darktail wanted this whole time? But why 
would he hate SkyClan so much? He hadnt even 
met us until a couple of moons ago. 

Hawkwing didn’t know what to say. He could only 
repeat his desperate question. “Why?” 

“Listen,” Darktail meowed, his tone softening. “I 
like you, Hawkwing. You’re different from the other 
SkyClan cats. You’re more like me. Surely you realize 
your best chance of survival will be with me and my 


rogues? We’re going to take the gorge for ourselves. 
Join us! We're so good together, Hawkwing. We 
understand each other. Pll make you my deputy.” 

Hawkwing could hardly believe what he was 
hearing. We're going to take the gorge for 
ourselves. And Darktail’s claim of affection made him 
want to vomit. “Even if I believed you,” he spat, “do 
you think I would jom you? After you and Rain 
murdered my father? Never!” 

To Hawkwing’s amazement, something flickered in 
Darktail’s eyes and he angled his head aside, as if he 
were honestly disappointed by Hawkwing’s response. 
But when he looked up again he wore a savage glare, 
his whiskers bristling. “If that's what you want,” he 
snarled, “you can die along with the rest of your 
mange-ridden Clan!” 

Full of grief and rage, Hawkwing leaped at him. 
But Darktail slipped aside, and was lost to sight in the 
rain and the darkness. 





CHAPTER 17 
+ 


Hawkwing 5 heart was beating hard, pounding loud 
in his ears in spite of the rain that thrummed against 
the ground with relentless strength. Everything seemed 
unreal, and as he flung himself back into the battle he 
felt as if each move was taking place in slow motion. 

The powerful long-furred she-cat leaped toward 
him, and he felt as if he had all the time in the world to 
extend his claws and slice them through her black pelt 
into her shoulder. Another rogue attacked him from the 
side; Hawkwing automatically dodged his swipes and 
drove him off with two swift blows around his ears. 

Hawkwing fought on with the battle moves 
ingrained in him through moons of SkyClan training, but 
he was barely aware of the strikes he delivered or the 
ones he received. All he could think of was the look of 
utter surprise on Sharpclaw’s face at the moment that 
Darktail struck him down. And Darktail had looked so 
cold and calculating. 

I cant believe I felt so close to that vile cat! 1 
even thought he might help to make up for losing 


Duskpaw! But Darktail was never anything like my 
brother! 

The storm raged on, matching the storm in 
Hawkwing’s heart. Raindrops bounced off the ground, 
gathering in puddles that spread and flowed into one 
another. The ground was slippery, and it was hard to 
see through the sheets of driving rain. 

Through the chaos, Hawkwing spotted Patchfoot 
close to the cliff wall, locked in combat with a skinny 
ginger rogue. He began splashing over there to help 
the elder. Patchfoot had reared on his hind paws, 
pinning the rogue against the rock face, but just as he 
was poised to strike, his hind paws slipped in the mud 
and he fell. With a yowl of triumph the ginger rogue 
fell on him, biting and scratching. Patchfoot let out a 
choking gasp of pain. 

Puttng on a burst of speed, Hawkwing flung 
himself at the rogue and drove him back, landing a 
couple of blows on his hindquarters as the rogue turned 
and fled. Then he turned toward Patchfoot, only to 
realize with a fresh shock of grief that the old cat was 
dead, his limbs stretched out as rain flowed through his 
pelt. 


Hawkwing let out a growl of pure fury. Close by 
he spotted Clovertail and Fallowfern fighting with two 
more of the rogues, and began to rush toward them. 
But before he reached them, he was distracted by a 
panic-stricken screech from the cliff above his head. 

“Help us!” 

Looking up through the rain, Hawkwing managed 
to make out a knot of cats fighting outside the nursery. 
He recognized Mintfur and Birdwing, bravely holding 
their own but outnumbered by three rogues who were 
steadily driving them away from the nursery entrance. 

They want to hurt the kits! Hawkwing realized. 
They’re striking at the heart of our Clan! 

“I'm coming!” he yowled, launching himself up the 
trail. 

As he drew closer, Hawkwing could hear the thin 
wails of Mintfur’s four terrified young kits, and the 
stronger voices of Birdwing’s three, who were almost 
old enough to be apprenticed. 

“We can fight!” Curlykit called out. “We’ll protect 
the young ones!” 

“We'll claw any rogue who comes in here!” 
Fidgetkit agreed, while Snipkit simply let out a 


threatening growl. 

Hawkwing raced upward and realized after a few 
paces that another cat was following hard on his paws. 
Afraid that a rogue was chasing him, he paused to look 
back and saw that it was Pebblepaw. Her speckled fur 
was plastered to her body by the rain, but thankfulness 
surged through Hawkwing as he realized she was 
unhurt. 

There was no time to talk. Hawkwing sped up the 
trail with Pebblepaw behind him, until they reached the 
ledge outside the nursery and fell on the rogues from 
behind. 

Hawkwing swatted at the nearest attacker, a 
black-and-white tom, with both forepaws, pushing him 
off the ledge to fall shrieking into the gorge. 
Pebblepaw dug her claws into the hindquarters of a 
huge ginger tom and clung there as he twisted around, 
trying to get at her. Hawkwing slashed at his ears, and 
with a wail of fear the rogue tore himself away and 
fled up the trail to disappear over the cliff top. The 
third rogue was a gray she-cat; Hawkwing faced her, 
his lips drawn back from his teeth in a threatening 
snarl. He was aware of Pebblepaw at his side; faced 


with the two of them, the rogue backed away slowly, 
then suddenly turned tail and headed back down into 
the gorge. 

“So much for them!” Pebblepaw panted, a note of 
triumph in her voice. 

Hawkwing gave her an admiring glance. Shes so 
brave, he thought, reflecting on how well they fought 
together. 

“Thank you!” Birdwing exclaimed. “We were so 
afraid for the kits.” 

“We wouldn’t have let them in here.” Curlykit’s 
voice came from the mouth of the den. All three of 
Birdwing’s kits were crouched there, claws extended 
from their tiny paws, their eyes gleaming in the 
darkness. 

“Well done; you're very brave,” Hawkwing 
meowed. Turning to Pebblepaw, he added, “Stay here 
and help protect the nursery.” 

He half expected Pebblepaw to argue, but she 
responded with a brisk nod. “You can count on me, 
Hawkwing.” 

Satisfied that he had done the best he could for the 
two queens and their litters, Hawkwing headed down 


the trail again. At the foot he spotted Rileypaw and 
Bellapaw, struggling with two much bigger rogues. 
One of them had Rileypaw pinned down, and was 
about to sink his claws into the young tom’s throat. 

Hawkwing leaped to the top of a boulder, just 
above Rileypaw and his attacker, and hurled himself 
onto the rogue’s shoulders, thrusting him away from his 
Clanmate. As soon as he was freed, Rileypaw 
scrambled to his paws and went to help Bellapaw. 

Hawkwing cuffed the rogue around the ears until 
he stumbled away, squealing, then turned to see the 
two littermates driving off the second attacker. 

“Thanks, Hawkwing,” Rileypaw gasped. “I thought 
I was dead for sure.” 

“Are you both okay?” Hawkwing asked. 

Though Bellapaw and Rileypaw both bore the 
marks of the rogues’ claws, they simply nodded. 
“Fine,” Bellapaw mewed. 

“Then go and help the elders.” Hawkwing angled 
his ears toward Clovertail and Fallowfern, still locked 
in their struggle with the massive rogues. Clovertail 
looked to be at the end of her strength, but she was still 
striking out bravely. 


The two young cats bounded off, and Hawkwing 
spotted Sandynose limping toward the foot of the cliff 
with Plumwillow, who was leaning on him heavily. 
Blood streamed from the gray she-cat’s shoulder. 

“She's hurt!” Sandynose gasped. “And she's 
expecting kits.” 

‘Tm so slow,” Plumwillow confessed, breathing 
hard. “I’m off-balance somehow.” 

For the first time Hawkwing noticed Plumwillow’s 
rounded belly. “Take her up to the nursery,” he 
meowed to Sandynose. “You can help protect the 
kits.” 

Sandynose nodded, looking relieved, and began 
guiding his mate up the trail. 

Hawkwing’s whole body tensed with horror as he 
looked around the camp and realized how badly the 
battle was going for SkyClan. The bodies of his 
Clanmates were strewn on the ground between the 
cliff and the river; he couldn't tell whether they were 
dead or only injured. Between the darkness and the 
storm, with every cat plastered in mud, it was 
becoming harder still to tell friend from foe. 

“Retreat! SkyClan, retreat!” 


Leafstar’s voice yowled out into the night; 
Hawkwing turned and saw her standing on top of the 
Rockpile. Her voice rang out once more; then she 
leaped down and vanished into the darkness. 

We’ve lost, Hawkwing thought, a dark mist of 
sadness and disbelief swirling around him. Our leader 
is giving up the gorge. 

At Leafstar’s order the SkyClan cats began to 
stream out of their camp. Hawkwing froze for a 
moment as he watched them scatter in all directions, 
disappearing into the night and the pouring rain. 

He thought again of his mother’s words: I’m 
afraid that if we are driven into exile again, 
SkyClan may be lost forever. And here they were, 
about to be driven out of their home. Can it really be 
over so quickly? 

Stil, Hawkwing didn’t question his leader’s 
decision. He would follow her order. Forcing his limbs 
into motion, Hawkwing fled with his Clanmates, 
heading downstream, but after a few paces he halted 
and looked back. 

Darktail stood on top of a boulder in the middle of 
the camp, a terrible expression of triumph on his face. 


His white pelt was clotted with blood. 

Sharpclaws blood . . . the blood of my 
Clanmates. 

With horror, Hawkwing realized that Darktail was 
staring straight at him. He froze, panting and full of 
rage. He thought of how Darktail had asked him to 
stay with him in the gorge—right after he’d delivered 
the killing blow to Sharpclaw! 7’m nothing like you! he 
thought fiercely. He desperately wanted to fling 
himself on Darktail and claw that look of triumph from 
his face, but he knew this wasn’t the time. Instead, he 
tore his gaze away and raced out of the camp, his 
heart ready to break from anger and pain. 

He remembered now how proud he’d felt to bring 
Darktail back to camp from the ashes of the fire. He’d 
truly believed he might be the “spark that remains,” or 
might have helped SkyClan find it. / brought Darktail 
here. I trusted him, and all the time he was 
deceiving us. He wanted to take away everything 
we cared about... and he has. But I was the cat 
who started it all. Its my fault we’ve lost the gorge. 
Darktail might have been his killer, but still, its my 
fault that Sharpclaw is dead. 


Hawkwing fled blindly, not stopping until he came 
to the riverbank and realized that he had reached the 
patch of scrub and small trees where he had hunted 
with Sharpclaw and Darktail in what felt like another 
life. At first he thought he was alone, unsure where the 
rest of his Clan had gone. 

Are we all scattered? Is this the end? 

Rain was still driving down, and the river was 
running high and strong, sweeping twigs and debris 
down with it as it rolled between the banks. Hawkwing 
had to strain to see anything in the darkness. 

Then Hawkwing heard voices coming from farther 
downstream. Heading in that direction, he spotted 
Birdwing’s three kits trying to cross the river over a set 
of stepping-stones. Curlykit was urging them on; there 
were no adult cats in sight. 

“Stop! It’s too dangerous!” Hawkwing yowled. 

But the kits seemed not to hear him through the 
rain and the roar of the river, launching themselves on 
the perilous crossing. 

Hawkwing bounded toward them, and realized as 
he drew closer that there were other cats on the far 
bank. He could just make out their shadowy shapes 


and hear their meows, though he couldn’t distinguish 
what they were saying. From their voices, Hawkwing 
thought they might be Echosong and Pebblepaw, but 
there was no sign of Birdwing or the kits’ father, 
Sagenose. He understood now why the kits wanted to 
cross the river, but they were still in terrible danger. 

By the time Hawkwing reached the stepping- 
stones, all three kits were well on the way across; 
Curlykit, in the lead, was more than halfway. 
Hawkwing began to follow. He was more frightened 
still for the kits when he felt the slick surface of the 
stones with the river water lapping over them. Oh, 
StarClan! Don t let them slip! 

Curlykit reached the far bank and was hauled to 
safety by a cat who Hawkwing could now see was 
Pebblepaw. Fidgetkit followed, leaping up the bank by 
himself and turning, ready to help his remaining 
littermate. 

Hawkwing thought that Snipkit looked exhausted. 
She was moving slowly, hesitating before she leaped 
from one stone to the next. Her legs were wobbling. 
Hawkwing speeded up, not bothering to check his 
balance as he sprang from rock to rock. At each 


landing he felt his paws shift under him, and only 
pushing off for his next leap saved him from falling. 

Before Hawkwing could reach Snipkit, her paws 
slipped as she tried to jump. She fell short, letting out a 
terrified wail; her forepaws scrabbled at the next 
stone, but she couldn’t get a grip. She fell with a 
splash, her eyes wide with disbelief as the current 
quickly swept her away. 

Instantly Hawkwing plunged into the river. 
“Snipkit! Snipkit!” he yowled, desperately peering into 
the darkness in the hope of spotting the drowning kit. 

The fierce current dragged at Hawkwing, and soon 
he was struggling desperately simply to stay afloat. 
“Don’t swim after her!” he gasped to the frantic cats 
on the bank. “It’s too—” 

Water flowed into Hawkwing’s mouth, cutting off 
his warning. His head went under and he lost all sense 
of direction; surging black water was all around him. 

I’m going to die, he thought, and then his next 
thought surprised him: Maybe thats best. If I survive, 
Pll have to face Cherrytail and the others, and live 
with the guilt of knowing that I brought Darktail 
into the Clan. 


In his mind, Hawkwing once again saw his father’s 
terrible death, murdered while he had looked on, 
powerless to help him. /f I drown, I'll never have to 
remember that again. 

Then, as Hawkwing felt himself begin to spiral 
away into darkness, he imagined his father’s brilliant 
green gaze fixed on him. “My son is not a coward!” 
Sharpclaw meowed. 

The memory of his father’s faith in him filled 
Hawkwing with new energy and determination. He 
began to fight again, his legs churning the water, until 
abruptly his head broke the surface. Coughing, he 
forced himself to keep paddling until he felt the 
gravelly bottom of the river under his paws and 
managed to stand. With water streaming from his pelt, 
he staggered ashore, as Pebblepaw came bounding 
over to him, followed by Echosong, Curlykit, and 
Fidgetkit. 

“This way!” he choked out, pointng downstream 
with his tail. 

He forced his aching legs into motion to race 
downstream, scanning the rolling current for any sign 
of Snipkit. Pebblepaw ran beside him, the others less 


than a tail-length behind. 

“Snipkit! Snipkit!” Every cat was calling for her, 
but there was no reply, and nothing to see in the night 
and the rain. 

Eventually Hawkwing staggered to a halt, and 
Pebblepaw collapsed to the ground beside him. 

“It's no use,” Pebblepaw gasped. “We have to 
stop.” 

The two remaining kits came limping up with 
Echosong. 

“We can’t just leave her!” Curlykit protested. “We 
have to find her!” 

“It’s too dark,” Echosong mewed gently. “We 
could easily miss her if we carry on. We’ll look for her 
in the morning, I promise.” 

Curlykit and Fidgetkit exchanged a glance; 
Hawkwing could tell that they wanted to be reassured, 
but they were still doubtful. Their wide eyes glimmered 
in the gloom and their flanks were heaving as they 
fought against their grief. Hawkwing could see how 
desperately they were trying to be brave. 

He knew how they felt. Little as he wanted to 
admit it, even to himself, he thought that probably 


Snipkit was already dead. 

A wave of anger surged through Hawkwing, so hot 
that he stopped shivering and dug his claws fiercely 
into the ground. 

Another death because of Darktail! If he hadnt 
attacked, Snipkit would be tucked up safely in the 
nursery. She wouldnt have had to try to cross this 
angry river in a rainstorm late at night. 

Exhausted, the five cats headed into the 
undergrowth and trampled down a clear space among 
ferns for a makeshift den. Echosong and Pebblepaw 
settled the kits, licking their fur the wrong way to dry 
them off and make them warm. Hawkwing thought 
about keeping watch, in case any of Darktail’s rogues 
should come marauding down the riverbank, but his 
exhaustion was too strong. Letting himself relax, he fell 
into a bottomless pit of sleep. 


It was still dark when Hawkwing awoke. At first 
he couldn’t work out what had changed; then he 
realized that he couldn’t hear the rain drumming on the 
leaves above his head. There was only the distant roar 
of the river, and close by a steady drip of raindrops 
falling from the bushes. 


His Clanmates were still asleep, Echosong and 
Pebblepaw curled around the two kits. Careful not to 
wake them, Hawkwing rose to his paws and slid out 
into the open. 

I need to think. Somehow we have to find the 
rest of our Clanmates, and make a plan to take the 
gorge back. 

Sadness overwhelmed Hawkwing as he realized 
how much had changed. This damp refuge on the 
riverbank was so different from his nest in the 
warriors’ den. He couldn’t even begin to imagine 
where the rest of the Clan might be, or even whether 
they were still alive. 

The faces of his dead Clanmates passed in front of 
him. His father, Sharpclaw, who had died a hero’s 
death at the claws of a traitor. Bouncefire, the traitor’s 
first victim. The elder Patchfoot, always cheerful, 
always ready with a story for the kits and apprentices. 
Stormheart, who had almost certainly been killed at the 
very beginning of the attack. 

Probably Snipkit, Hawkwing thought sadly, and 
probably more, too. I saw cats fall, but I couldnt 
tell if they were wounded or dead. And now every 


cat is scattered. 

He whipped around at a faint sound of movement 
behind him, then relaxed as he saw Pebblepaw sliding 
between the ferns to sit at his side. She leaned against 
him, and Hawkwing was grateful for the warmth she 
gave. 

“I feel so responsible for this,” Hawkwing told her, 
putting words to his terrible burden of guilt for the first 
time. “If I hadn’t trusted Darktail, if I hadn’t brought 
him into SkyClan—” 

“You couldn't have known,” Pebblepaw 
interrupted, resting her tail-tip on his shoulder. 

“But I should have! Sharpclaw had his doubts 
about him, and I should have listened to him! Great 
StarClan, I had my own doubts. If I hadn’t ignored 
them, none of this would have happened. It’s all my 
fault.” 

“No, it’s not.” Pebblepaw’s warm tongue rasped 
comfortingly around Hawkwing’s ear. “You're a very 
young warrior, Hawkwing. If Leafstar and the senior 
warriors hadn’t agreed, Darktail and Rain would never 
have been allowed in the camp. Every cat made the 
mistake of trusting them.” 


Hawkwing wanted to believe Pebblepaw, but he 
was finding it hard. The sharp pang of his guilt was too 
painful. 

“There’s something that frightens me,” he confided 
to her. “Darktail wanted me to join him and stay in the 
camp. He thinks we’re alike. What if that’s true?” 

Pebblepaw let out a snort of disgust. “How can 
you believe such a pile of mouse droppings? You're 
brave and loyal, Hawkwing, a true SkyClan warrior. 
Did you fight for your Clan back there?” 

“Well... yes,” Hawkwing murmured reluctantly. 

“And did it even occur to you to betray them?” 

“No!” 

“Then what makes you think you’re anything like 
Darktail?” Pebblepaw challenged him. “You would 
never plot against cats who had been kind to you.” 

As she spoke, Hawkwing began to feel his burden 
grow a little lighter. She 5 right. Yes, I made mistakes, 
but I will make up for them. I will be as brave and 
loyal as Pebblepaw thinks I am, and I'll protect my 
Clanmates’ lives with my own. 

Nestling closer to Pebblepaw, Hawkwing felt a 
wave of gratitude to her. Terrible things have 


happened, but at least she is by my side. Id like 
her by my side for always. Looking into her eyes, 
shining in the darkness, he couldn’t help feeling a tiny 
sliver of warmth. 





CHAPTER 18 
+ 


Hawkwing and Pebblepaw drowsed outside the den 
until the sky began to grow pale with dawn, and 
Echosong pushed her way into the open. 

“We ought to look for the others,” she meowed. 

Hawkwing nodded, anxiety for Cherrytail and his 
sisters pricking at his pads. “And first we have to look 
for Snipkit.” 

Rousing the kits, Hawkwmg led the way along the 
riverbank, heading farther downstream. As the dawn 
light strengthened, it dazzled off puddles and water 
droplets hanging from every branch. The river had 
grown quieter, winding among the rocks like a glittering 
snake. The dawn air was fresh and clear; once or 
twice Hawkwing’s heart beat faster with hope as he 
thought that he had picked up a trace of the missing 
kit’s scent. But each time, the trail petered out, and he 
realized that he had been wrong. The brilliant morning 
didn’t reveal any sign of Snipkit. 

Curlykit and Fidgetkit grew more and more frantic 
with every paw step they took. 


“We have to find her!” Curlykit meowed. “What 
are we going to tell our mother and father?” 

Hawkwing couldn’t escape a heavy feeling of 
despair. He was certain in his own mind that they 
weren’t going to find the little black she-cat. Even if 
she didnt drown, she'd be a defenseless kit all on 
her own. She could have been snatched up by a 
hawk, or killed by a fox. Firmly he shook off these 
dark thoughts to focus on the remaining kits. 

“When did you last see your parents?” he asked 
them. 

“We were with Birdwing when Leafstar called the 
retreat,’ Fidgetkit explained. “But we lost her in the 
crowd. We don’t know where she went, or where 
Sagenose is.” 

“We don’t know where any cat is!” Curlykit 
wailed. 


“Well, we're here,’ Pebblepaw mewed 
comfortingly. “We’ll look after you, and I guess we’ll 
find your family soon.” 


I hope shes right, Hawkwing thought. 
He led the cats farther along the bank, his hope 
dwindling with every heartbeat. As he was wondering 


whether to give up and turn back, he heard the rustling 
of some creature pushing its way toward them through 
the undergrowth. 

“Snipkit?” Fidgetkit mewed eagerly, beginning to 
hurry toward the sound. 

“Wait!” Hawkwing warned him. 

The sound suggested a much bigger animal than 
Snipkit, and a low growl coming from the bushes 
convinced Hawkwing that whatever was in there, it 
wasn’t the missing kit. Opening his jaws, he picked up 
a musky, unpleasant scent. 

Hawkwing and Echosong sprang forward, pushing 
Fidgetkit behind them as the branches parted and a 
strange black-and-white animal burst into the open, 
glaring at them from malignant eyes. 

“A raccoon!” Pebblepaw exclaimed. 

Hawkwing froze, amazed at his first sight of one of 
the vicious creatures that had attacked his Clanmates 
while he was away. It was black, white, and gray, with 
white around its short, pointed muzzle and black rings 
around its eyes. Its claws were long and flexible, 
reminding Hawkwing of a Twoleg’s forepaws. He had 
no doubt about how dangerous it was. 


As he and Echosong gazed at it, for a moment too 
startled to move, the raccoon darted forward toward 
Echosong. The medicine cat started back, but she 
didn’t move fast enough. She let out a screech of 
shock and pain as the raccoon sank its teeth into her 
shoulder. 

At first Hawkwing wasn’t sure what to do. He had 
never seen a raccoon before. What can these 
creatures do? How do I fight it? 

In his moment’s hesitation, Pebblepaw leaped at 
the raccoon, slashing her claws through its thick fur. 
With a hideous tearing sound the raccoon let Echosong 
go, and the medicine cat slumped to the ground with a 
dull thud. Then the creature turned on Pebblepaw, 
hissing ferociously. 

Terrified for her, Hawkwing barreled into its side, 
thrusting it away, and lashed at its muzzle with one 
forepaw. With a grunt of pain the raccoon spun around, 
scattering drops of blood from its injured muzzle, and 
vanished once more into the undergrowth. 

“Thank StarClan!” Pebblepaw exclaimed. “They 
were much fiercer than that when they attacked us in 
the gorge.” 


“Maybe they’re not so brave when they’re alone,” 
Hawkwing responded, grateful that the encounter had 
been no worse. “It seemed just as surprised as we 
were when we came across each other. I don’t think it 
was looking for a fight.” 

Though he and Pebblepaw were both bruised and 
exhausted, the raccoon hadn’t injured them. The kits 
were fine, too, crouching under a bush with bristling fur 
and eyes stretched wide with a mixture of fear and 
excitement. 

So all we need to worry about is the bite on 
Echosong s shoulder, Hawkwing thought, relieved. 

“Echosong, are you badly hurt?” Pebblepaw 
asked. 

The medicine cat shook her head. “It's not too 
bad,” she replied. “It just needs cleaning out, and 
cobweb to stop the bleeding.” 

“TI clean it up,” Pebblepaw offered at once. 
“Echosong, come and lie down here in the shelter of 
this bush.” 

Echosong padded over into the shade of a hazel 
bush and sank down with a sigh of relief. Pebblepaw 
crouched beside her and began to clean the wound 


with strong, rapid rasps of her tongue. 

“Come on, kits,” Hawkwing directed. “We’ll go 
and look for cobwebs.” 

The kits sprang up instantly, obviously pleased to 
be able to help. “We’ll find lots!” Curlykit boasted. 

Hawkwing kept an eye on the kits as they all 
headed into the bushes, and tried to imagine how they 
felt. They ve lost their home and a littermate, all at 
once. I’m scared, so they must be terrified. 

“You're doing really well” he told them as they 
peered under branches to find the cobwebs Echosong 
needed. 

By the time Hawkwing and the kits returned with 
pawfuls of cobweb, Pebblepaw had finished cleaning 
Echosong's wound. Already the bleeding had almost 
stopped, but she still showed Hawkwing how to plaster 
the cobweb over the bite. Fidgetkit patted it carefully 
all around to seal the edges. 

“You should rest now,” Hawkwmg told Echosong 
when the cobweb was in place. “Keep the kits with 
you, and Pebblepaw and I will hunt.” 

“But shouldn’t we go on looking for Snipkit?” 
Curlykit objected. 


“No,” Echosong replied, curling her tail around to 
draw the little gray she-cat closer to her. “We need to 
eat to keep up our strength. We can’t help Snipkit by 
making ourselves ill.” 

Fidgetkit nodded seriously. “We’ll look after you, 
Echosong,” he mewed. “Are you comfortable there? If 
you stretch out more it should be better. And can we 
find you any herbs to help with the pain?” 

“Not right now,” Echosong replied, blinking 
affectionately at the little tom. “It’s more important for 
us to stay together.” 

When Hawkwing was satisfied that Echosong and 
the two kits would be safe for a while, he headed 
farther downstream with Pebblepaw at his side. 
Though they still kept a lookout for Snipkit, their main 
purpose was to find some prey. Hawkwing hadn’t 
realized until then how hungry he was. 

“We'd better watch out for raccoons, too, 
Pebblepaw murmured, tasting the air. “It’s weird that 
they started coming onto our territory so often, when 
we’d never seen them before.” 

Hawkwing nodded agreement, then halted as a 
sudden realization struck him. “You know,” he began 


33 


slowly, thinking aloud, “I saw Darktail scattering 
Twoleg food scraps near the camp. Suppose he was 
trying to lure other animals—foxes, maybe, and these 
raccoons—onto our territory to cause trouble for us 
and put us in danger. How long have Darktail and Rain 
been working against us? From the very beginning?” 

Pebblepaw listened in silence, her eyes widening 
as Hawkwing explained his suspicions. “I saw Darktail 
leaving half-eaten pieces of prey outside camp once,” 
she meowed when he had finished. “But that was a 
long time ago. I didn’t know what to think about it, and 
I didn’t want to confront Darktail.” Her head drooped 
in regret. “I should have shared my suspicions with 
some cat.” 

Hawkwing shook his head. “It’s not your fault. I 
could have spoken up too, but I thought of Darktail as 
a friend. I still can’t really believe what he did. I felt so 
close to him. The cat I thought he was just wasn’t the 
same as the cat who did these dreadful things and 
spent so much time planning how to destroy us. The 
quests, too,” he added. “I don’t think he ever knew 
where we could find Firestar’s kin. He just wanted to 
distract us and weaken us.” 


“Then he succeeded?’ Pebblepaw mewed 
solemnly. “We followed his directions and we lost 
Billystorm.” 

“It’s my fault,” Hawkwing continued, fighting with 
a renewed onset of guilt. “I saw him leave the food 
scraps, and I should have reported it. If Pd told 
Leafstar or Sharpclaw, the attack last night might 
never have happened.” 

Pebblepaw huffed out a breath. “Don’t deceive 
yourself. Darktail is clever and sneaky. He would have 
thought up some excuse. And you couldn’t possibly 
have known just how evil he is.” 

“Maybe you're right” Hawkwing sighed. 
Pebblepaw’s words comforted him, even though he 
couldn’t entirely get rid of his guilty feelings. “At any 
rate, once we find our Clanmates PI protect them 
from now on—even with my last breath!” 

Pebblepaw pressed her muzzle against his 
shoulder. “We’ll make things better,” she purred. 
“We’ll work together, and save SkyClan any way we 
can. And now let's hunt,” she added. “My belly thinks 
my throat's been clawed out!” 


Sunhigh was approaching by the time Hawkwing 


and Pebblepaw returned with a mouse and a couple of 
voles. Echosong was asleep, with the two kits nestling 
against her flank, but all three of them roused as 
Hawkwing and Pebblepaw padded up and dropped 
their prey beside them. 

Curlykit and Fidgetkit blinked sleepily, then sprang 
to their paws and looked around hopefully. Only for a 
heartbeat; then their tails drooped in disappointment. 

“You didn’t find Snipkit,” Curlykit mewed. 

“No, but we found fresh-kill” Pebblepaw told her, 
pushing the plumpest vole toward her. “Come and 
eat.” 

“So can we go and look for Snipkit now?” Fidgetkit 
asked when every cat had gulped down the last 
mouthfuls of prey. 

Hawkwing glanced at Echosong. We know that 
Snipkit is dead, he thought. Maybe this is the time to 
tell the kits. 

Echosong shook her head sadly. “No,” she 
responded to Fidgetkit’s question. “If Snipkit had made 
it to shore, we would have found her by now.” 

Curlykit and Fidgetkit gazed at each other in 
dismay, and Curlykit let out a miserable wail. 


“That doesn’t mean she's dead,” Fidgetkit 
meowed. “She could be on the opposite bank.” 

Hawkwing exchanged a doubtful look with 
Echosong, while Pebblepaw studied her paws and 
wouldn’t meet the kits’ gaze. 

“You could be right,’ Echosong agreed at last. “T 
think if Snipkit did swim to shore, she would try to find 
the rest of the Clan. And so should we. Hawkwing, 
where do you think the others would have gone?” 

Hawkwing wasn’t sure. “Maybe near the gorge?” 
he suggested. “Watching the rogues and getting ready 
to attack?” 

“I doubt it,’ Pebblepaw meowed. “They’ll be 
injured and exhausted—in no fit state to fight. Not yet, 
at least. I think they'd try to find a place where they’re 
sure to find other Clanmates.” 

“And there's only one place like that,’ Echosong 
stated. “In the Twolegplace, with the daylight 
warriors.” 


Hawkwing’s pelt began to bristle with nervousness 
as he and his Clanmates approached the Twolegplace. 
This was only the fourth time he had been there: once 
with Ebonyclaw, who was a daylight warrior and 


thoroughly familiar with the hard Thunderpaths 
separating the huge stone dens; once with Billystorm 
and the rest of the patrol on the first quest; and once 
when he followed Darktail He had hoped that he 
would never have to go there again, and when the first 
of the dens loomed over them he felt lost and 
uncertam. 

The two kits had never been there before, and 
were staring around in wonder. 

“Tt’s so big!” Curlykit exclaimed. 

“Will we see Twolegs?” Fidgetkit asked. “What 
will they do to us?” 

“Probably nothing bad,” Echosong mewed briskly. 
“Follow me.” 

Hawkwing stared at the medicine cat as she took 
the lead so confidently. “Have you been here before?” 
he asked. 

Echosong glanced at him over her shoulder. “Of 
course,” she replied. “Didn’t you know that I was once 
a kittypet?” 

Hawkwing exchanged a surprised glance with 
Pebblepaw. “No,” he meowed, shocked that a kittypet 
could become a medicine cat with such a strong 


connection to StarClan. “You really lived with Twolegs 
in one of these dens?” 

“T really did,’ Echosong told him. “Firestar found 
me, and explained why I was dreaming of cats with 
stars in their fur. But that was a long time ago,” she 
added dismissively. “I hardly think about it anymore.” 

Echosong led her Clanmates along the edge of 
Thunderpaths, down alleyways, and past so many 
Twoleg dens that Hawkwing became quite bewildered. 
“If I was on my own, I’d never find my way out of 
here,” he murmured to Pebblepaw. 

At last Echosong squeezed under a Twoleg fence 
and beckoned with her tail for the others to follow. 
Hawkwing brought up the rear, and heard the two kits 
squeaking with excitement as he pressed his belly to 
the ground and crawled through the gap with the 
bottom of the fence scraping his spine. 

Rising to his paws on the other side, Hawkwing 
found himself in a Twoleg garden. The powerful scent 
of cats caught him in the throat. Looking around 
eagerly, he saw that a long stretch of grass led up to a 
Twoleg den at the far side. Close by, crouching in the 
shelter of some bushes with glossy dark leaves, was 


Leafstar, surrounded by several of their Clanmates. 

Relief filled Hawkwing like rain filling an upturned 
leaf. Some of us have survived! Theres hope after 
all! 

But within a couple of heartbeats Hawkwing’s 
feelings of relief began to give way to dismay as he 
realized how many of his Clanmates were missing. 
Something cold gathered heavily inside him as he 
looked in vain for his mother, Cherrytail, and his sisters, 
Cloudmist and Blossomheart. 

Have I lost all my kin? 

Ebonyclaw was with the others; when she spotted 
the newcomers she bounded over to them and dipped 
her head. “You’re alive!” she exclaimed. “Oh, it’s so 
good to see you. Welcome to my nest.” 

In spite of his anxiety about his family, Hawkwing 
couldn’t wait to rejom his Clanmates. They looked 
exhausted and their pelts were ragged, but their eyes 
were bright as they clustered around, eagerly 
welcoming. 

“There's Parsleypaw!” Pebblepaw exclaimed, 
running to touch noses with her brother. “Oh, I’m so 
glad you’re safe!” 


Sparrowpet and Tinycloud were there, too, 
hurrying up to greet their daughter and brushing their 
pelts against hers. 

Birdwing sprang up and bounded up to Curlykit and 
Fidgetkit, closely followed by their father, Sagenose. 
“Thank StarClan you’re safe!” she mewed, relief 
shining in her eyes. Then she paused, her gaze 
traveling over the newcomers. “But where’s Snipkit?” 

“She’s not with you?” Fidgetkit asked anxiously. 

Sagenose shook his head. “We haven’t seen her 
since last night.” 

The two kits launched into their story, of how 
Snipkit had fallen into the river. Hawkwing could see 
growing dismay in Birdwing’s and Sagenose’s eyes, 
and Birdwing let out a wail of pain when Curlykit told 
how their search had failed. She drew her two 
remaining kits close to her, and Sagenose buried his 
muzzle in her shoulder fur. 

Giving them space to grieve, Hawkwing looked 
around to see who else was there. He spotted Mintfur 
with all four of her kits, as well as her mate, 
Nettlesplash. Plumwillow and Waspwhisker had made 
it, too. But his relief at seeing they had survived 


couldn’t wipe out his desolation that his mother and 
sisters were missing. 

Then after a moment Pebblepaw left her family 
and came to sit beside him, offering silent support with 
understanding in her eyes. Hawkwing leaned toward 
her, grateful for her warmth. 

“It's been a while since any kittypets were 
attacked by raccoons,” Ebonyclaw was explaining to 
Leafstar. “So my Twolegs have started letting me out 
again, though only in the daytime.” 

“What about the others?” Leafstar asked. 

“I haven't seen them,” the black she-cat replied. 
“But I reckon they’ ll be free again soon. Twolegs like 
to do things at the same time as each other. If only 
Darktail hadn’t made his move while all of us daylight 
warriors were shut up,” she added. “Maybe we would 
have been able to turn the tide in the battle. PI never 
forgive myself for not being there!” 

“Don’t blame yourself. I'm sure Darktail took all 
that mto account when he was making his plans,” 
Leafstar meowed grimly. 

No cat looked angrily at Hawkwing when the evil 
rogue was mentioned, but he felt another painful pang 


of guilt. J never want to hear Darktail's name again! 

“Well” Sparrowpelt began, sounding determinedly 
cheerful, “now that we have the daylight warriors 
again, we can gather up the rest of the Clan, attack the 
rogues, and take back our territory.” 

An enthusiastic murmur rose from the group of 
cats. “We’ll teach those rogues!” Tinycloud called out. 
“Yes, rip their pelts off!” Nettlesplash growled. 

Hawkwing flexed his claws eagerly, relieved that 
he could put the past behind him and prove himself 
anew. 

But Leafstar raised her tail for silence. “You’re 
right that we need to find our missing Clanmates,” she 
meowed. “But simply attacking the rogues might not 
be the smartest course of action right now.” 

Hawkwing’s jaws gaped in shock. How could we 
not fight back? How could we not avenge my 
father s death, and so many others? 

Several of his Clanmates leaped to their paws, 
their fur bristling in outrage. 

“You can’t mean that!” Waspwhisker protested. 
“They’re in our home!” 

“But we’re not the Clan we used to be,” 


Sparrowpelt pointed out. “We’ve suffered so much. It 
might be moons before we can take on those rogues.” 

“Could . . . ?” Pebblepaw’s voice was a soft mew, 
but somehow it caught the attention of every cat. 
Hawkwing could tell from the way she looked at the 
ground that she was uncomfortable asking her 
question. “Could this be StarClan’s plan? Could they be 
punishing us for something?” 

The gathered warriors passed uneasy glances back 
and forth, no cat sure how to respond. Some of them 
looked worried. 

“T don’t know.” Leafstar’s sigh was weary. “The 
important thing now is to follow the prophecy. Our 
Clan is on the verge of being destroyed. If we want to 
save SkyClan, we must find the spark that remains. 
Then we will see what the future holds for us.” 

Hawkwing’s belly lurched and he felt as if he 
would vomit. We’ve already tried twice to find 
ThunderClan, and both times it ended in disaster. 
He reflected that it was Darktail who had led them into 
trouble on the previous quests, but even so, SkyClan 
knew no more now than they had then. How can we 
possibly succeed? 


“It’s clear that StarClan is testing us in many 
ways,” Leafstar continued. “We lost our deputy, 
Sharpclaw.” 

As he heard some cats gasp, others sigh, 
Hawkwing felt as though clouds had gathered to cover 
the sun. He knew that SkyClan now needed a new 
deputy, but everything in him refused to accept tt. 
Sharpclaw is our deputy. Replacing him just made it 
clear that Sharpclaw was truly dead. 

In his mind’s eye Hawkwing could see Rain 
creeping up on his father, and Darktail’s murderous 
blow that had ended Sharpclaw’s life. Repressing a 
shudder, he met Pebblepaw’s steady gaze, and 
immediately felt a little stronger. She stretched her tail 
across his shoulders, wordlessly comforting him. 

“Cats of SkyClan,” Leafstar began, her gaze 
traveling over the remnants of her Clan. “Yesterday 
Sharpclaw died honorably in battle, killed by the most 
treacherous cat I have ever known. We will never 
forget him. But the Clan must go on, and I must 
appoint a new deputy.” 

Hawkwing’s grief eased just a little as Leafstar 
praised his father. Shes right; we'll never forget 


you, he thought. /'m proud to be your son. 

“I say these words before StarClan,” Leafstar 
continued, “that the spirits of our ancestors may hear 
and approve my choice. Waspwhisker will be the new 
deputy of SkyClan.” 

A murmur of appreciation rose from the cats 
clustered around their leader, while Waspwhisker’s 
eyes widened in surprise, and a pleased expression 
spread over his face. 

“Leafstar, I never expected this honor,’ he 
meowed. “I can never be as noble a cat as Sharpclaw 
was, but I swear by StarClan that I will be a loyal and 
faithful deputy.” 

“Waspwhisker! Waspwhisker!” the SkyClan cats 
chanted. 

Hawkwing joined in; a mixture of pride, happiness, 
and grief warmed his pelt at the words Waspwhisker 
had spoken about his father. Though he was still 
troubled that Sharpclaw would no longer be deputy, he 
knew what a good choice Leafstar had made. 
Waspwhisker was a strong, brave warrior, but he was 
wise as well, and he would support his leader and his 
Clan through the dark days that were to come. 


Every cat respects him, Hawkwing thought. /f 
any cat can help lead us out of these dark times, 
it’s Waspwhisker. 





CHAPTER 19 
+ 


“Can you see any cat?” Hawkwing called, craning 
his neck to make out Pebblepaw’s speckled pelt among 
the leaves of the beech tree. 

“Not a whisker!” Pebblepaw replied. 

She reappeared, carefully sliding down from 
branch to branch, then leaped to the ground and landed 
with a thump at Hawkwing’s side. 

Two sunrises had passed since the remains of 
SkyClan had gathered at Ebonyclaw’s nest. Since then, 
many more cats had made their way there, but some 
were still missing. 

Blossomheart is back, but there 5 been no sign 
of Cherrytail or Cloudmist, Hawkwing thought, his 
heart aching. Plumwillow’s mate, Sandynose, isnt 
back yet, and neither are Frecklewish and 
Fallowfern. He knew that every cat was beginning to 
lose hope of ever seeing them again. 

And there had been more sad news to add to the 
survivors’ grief. Rileypaw had seen Stormheart struck 
down at the foot of the Rockpile when the battle had 


barely begun. Tinycloud had found Snipkit washed up 
on the riverbank, and carried the tiny limp body back to 
her Clan for burial. 

Laying the tiny body in the earth, seeing Snipkit’s 
life cut off when she was so young, was one of the 
most painful experiences of Hawkwing’s life. Her 
littermates, Curlykit and Fidgetkit, had whimpered all 
through it, and ever since, Hawkwing had noticed that 
they wandered around in a daze, all their high spirits 
gone. 

I wonder if they "Il ever get over losing her. 

Every time another cat found their way to 
Ebonyclaw’s nest, Hawkwing hardly dared speak to 
them, in case they brought news of Cherrytail’s or 
Cloudmist’s death. It was harder still to go out on 
patrol. 

I’m almost afraid to go on looking, Hawkwing 
thought, in case I find something else terrible. 

Now he and Pebblepaw were searching the forest 
on the opposite side of the gorge from the camp. 
Pebblepaw had suggested climbing the tree to see if 
she could spot any cat, but she had seen nothing. 

“This is hopeless,’ Hawkwing muttered. “Our 


missing Clanmates must be dead by now.” 

“You don’t know that,” Pebblepaw insisted, twining 
her tail affectionately with Hawkwing’s. “Good things 
do happen, remember? Blossomheart made it back to 
camp soon after we did, and you heard from 
Harveymoon how he found Firefern trapped in a 
Twoleg den. He had to brave the Twolegs’ dog, but he 
got Firefern out.” 

“That's true,” Hawkwing responded, “but... .” 

“And Darktail's rogues haven't bothered us,” 
Pebblepaw added. “That has to be good.” 

Hawkwing twitched his whiskers. J wonder what 
Darktail is up to, now that he has what he wanted. 
Will we ever see the gorge again? “Since we haven’t 
tried to take back the gorge,’ he mewed dryly, 
“Darktail probably thinks we aren’t a threat.” 

But though his words were somber, Hawkwing 
rubbed his cheek against Pebblepaw’s, grateful for her 
hopeful spirit. We're both young, and shes still an 
apprentice—but I know she'll be my mate someday. 
And I know she feels the same. 

The two cats continued through the forest, stopping 
every few fox-lengths to yowl for their missing 


Clanmates. Hawkwing was ready to give up, 
convinced that their efforts were pointless, when they 
heard an answering, distant yowl. 

Delight sprang into Pebblepaw’s eyes. “This way!” 
she exclaimed. 

Hawkwing followed her as she raced around a 
bramble thicket and up a fern-covered slope on the 
other side. At the top of the rise a steeper slope fell 
away into a clearing covered with low-growing bushes. 

Hawkwing let out another yowl as he and 

Pebblepaw scrambled down. To his amazement the 
undergrowth parted and his sister Cloudmist emerged. 
“Hawkwing!” she called. “Oh, it’s so good to see 
1» 
Hawkwing skidded to a halt in front of his sister, 
touching noses with her and drinking in her sweet, 
familiar scent. “I’d given up hope of finding you,” he 
choked out. 

“And I’m not alone,” Cloudmist purred, her eyes 
shining. “Cherrytail is here too. Come and see.” 

Turning, she led the way into a clear space among 
the bushes, where Hawkwing found his mother lying 
stretched out on a bed of ferns. Cobweb was plastered 


you 


over her tortoiseshell fur all along one side. 

“You're hurt!” Hawkwing meowed. 

Cherrytail’s eyes were shining as she stretched 
upward to press her muzzle against Hawkwing’s 
shoulder. “T I be fine,” she murmured. 

“She was wounded in the battle,’ Cloudmist 
explained. “We managed to hide here, but I was afraid 
to leave her to get help. Darktail and his rogues might 
have found her.” 

Hawkwing’s chest swelled, and he couldn’t help 
give a sigh of relief. 

Cherrytail cocked her head. “What’s wrong?” 

Hawkwing hesitated. He was relieved to find his 
kin, but he had just lost his father—something his 
mother and sister didn’t know. 

When he told them, Cherrytail sent an anguished 
yowl to the sky. “What about Blossomheart?” she 
asked anxiously. “Have you seen her?” 

“Yes, she’s safe,” Hawkwing reassured her. 

“We’ve made a temporary camp in the garden of 
Ebonyclaw’s Twoleg den,” Pebblepaw mewed, as 
Cherrytail relaxed with a sigh of relief. “We’ll help you 
to get there now.” 


It was a long way; eventually the cats had to cross 
the river by the stepping-stones where Snipkit had 
slipped. 

“We need to be very careful,” Hawkwing warned 
his mother and sister. “Birdwing's kits tried crossing 
here just after the battle, and . . .” His voice quivered 
and he had to start again. “Snipkit slipped into the 
water and drowned.” 

“No!” Cherrytail’s eyes stretched wide with 
horror. “Poor little one!” 

“Pd like to drown Darktail!” Cloudmist declared, 
sliding out her claws as if the vicious rogue was 
standing in front of her. 

“One day he’ll get what’s coming to him,” 
Pebblepaw meowed. “But for now we have to keep 
going. The river’s quieter now, so it shouldn’t be too 
hard.” 

With the younger cats’ help Cherrytail was able to 
limp across and hobble up one of the trails leading to 
the top of the gorge and across open ground to the 
Twolegplace. Hawkwing kept a wary eye out for 
rogue patrols, but he saw nothing of Darktail or his 
cats. 


“Just as well... for them,” he growled to himself, 
flexing his claws. 

The rest of the SkyClan cats gathered around 
Cherrytail and Cloudmist when they arrived at 
Ebonyclaw’s Twoleg nest, enthusiastically welcoming 
them. Hawkwing supported his mother as far as a 
sheltered spot under a holly bush where Echosong had 
made herself a den, with a collection of whatever 
herbs the Clan cats had been able to find. Cloudmist 
followed and a moment later Blossomheart joined 
them. 

The medicine cat sniffed Cherrytail’s wound 
carefully as she peeled away the covering of cobweb. 
Hawkwing winced when he saw the wound, a long 
gash down his mother’s side, the edges looking red and 
inflamed. 

“There’s some infection there,’ Echosong 
murmured, “but don’t worry. It doesn’t look too bad. 
Fidgetkit, can you clean that up for me, please.” 

The little black-and-white tom crouched down and 
began lapping gently at Cherrytail’s wound. Ever since 
he had arrived in the camp with Echosong he had 
stayed by her side, working tirelessly to help the 


medicine cat while she patched up her Clanmates’ 
injuries. 

Maybe he has the makings of a medicine cat, 
Hawkwing thought as he watched. It would be good 
for Echosong to take another apprentice, 
especially if we never find Frecklewish. 

When Echosong had treated the wound with a 
poultice of marigold, she and Fidgetkit slipped away, 
leaving Cherrytail to rest with her kits around her. 

“Pm so glad we're all together again,” 
Blossomheart mewed, covering her mother’s ears with 
gentle licks. “Hawkwing and I have been so worried.” 

But we’re not all together, Hawkwing thought. We 
never will be again, because Sharpclaw is dead. 
He felt as though he had an uncomfortable piece of 
fresh-kill lodged in his throat. 

“What's the matter?” Cherrytail asked gently. 

Swallowing hard, Hawkwing meowed, “I’m so 
sorry. I should never have trusted Darktail. If Pd 
known what kind of cat he is... . I never imagined he 
would do something like killing Sharpclaw.” His voice 
broke and he couldn’t go on. 

“I know, I know,” Cherrytail breathed out. Her 


green eyes were full of sorrow, but there was love and 
understanding there too. 

“We all know,” Cloudmist added reassuringly. “It’s 
not your fault, Hawkwing. There’s nothing to forgive.” 

Blossomheart merely blinked at him affectionately, 
and Hawkwing felt the pangs in his heart ease a little. 

At least they dont blame me, but I'll never stop 
blaming myself. From now on, I’m going to make 
Sharpclaw proud, and never let my kin or my Clan 
down like that again. 


When Hawkwing emerged into the camp again, 
leaving his mother to sleep, he found Leafstar standing 
on the edge of the bushes, with Pebblepaw, 
Harveymoon, and Firefern beside her. She beckoned 
Hawkwing to join them with a whisk of her tail. 

“Pm going to lead a patrol back to the gorge,” 
Leafstar announced. “I must be certain of the will of 
StarClan, and I intend to review every option. If the 
rogues look weak, or if some of them have left, then 
maybe that’s a sign that StarClan wants us to stay. Do 
you want to come with us?” 

Hawkwing was torn. There was some sense in his 
leader’s decision, but they could also be walking right 


into more trouble. And the thought of seeing Darktail 
again, and revisiting the place where his father was 
killed, made his belly cramp with nausea. 

I’ve been homesick for the gorge—but for the 
gorge as it used to be. I dont want to see what 
Darktail has made it now. 

“There’s no need, if you don’t want to,” 
Pebblepaw put in, clearly understanding how he felt. “I 
don’t mind going, Leafstar.” 

The Clan leader dipped her head. “That’s fine, 
then. Hawkwing, stay alert and guard the camp while 
we're away.” 

She and the rest of the patrol headed off, 
squeezing under the Twoleg fence. As soon as they 
had disappeared, Hawkwing began to wish he had 
gone with them. What if the rogues attack them and 
Pebblepaw is injured? He imagined her, cornered by 
Darktail, hurt and afraid. J might never see her again! 

He spent his time prowling restlessly around the 
borders of the camp, while the sun rose to sunhigh and 
began to slip down the sky. He tensed, afraid that he 
and his Clanmates had been discovered, when a 
Twoleg appeared from the den and brought out a small, 


growling monster. But all the Twoleg did was to push 
the monster up and down across the stretch of grass. 
Neither the Twoleg nor the monster seemed aware 
that there were cats hiding in the bushes. 

Waspwhisker had gone out with a hunting patrol, 
and the rest of the Clan was gathering around to share 
the fresh-kill when Leafstar and her Clanmates 
returned. 

Hawkwing bounded over to meet them, touching 
noses with Pebblepaw. “What happened?” he asked, 
overwhelmed by relief to see that none of the patrol 
were injured. 

Leafstar’s expression was grim, but she didn’t 
reply until she had padded over to address every cat 
beside the fresh-kill pile. “I’m sorry to tell you,” she 
announced, “that the gorge is lost to us. Darktail has 
moved in so many rogues that the place is crawling 
with them. We’re badly outnumbered.” Her voice 
shook on the last few words, but after a brief pause 
she went on firmly, “Our best chance of survival now 
is to forget the gorge. It is not the home we made 
there, not anymore. We must find new territory. We 
must find ThunderClan.” 


Hawkwing glanced nervously at his mother. 
Cherrytail had slept well, and emerged from 
Echosong’s den to eat, but her eyes looked glazed and 
her body gave off a dry heat, as if her infection was 
worsening in spite of the medicine cat’s treatment. 
Hawkwing worried that she might be too weak to 
travel. 

As the SkyClan cats exchanged anxious looks at 
Leafstar’s decision, Echosong slipped out of her den 
and dipped her head to her Clan leader. “I heard what 
you said,” she meowed. “While you were away, I 
slept, and StarClan sent me another vision.” 

At her words Hawkwing felt his heart begin to 
beat faster. This is what we’ve been waiting for! He 
could see that the rest of his Clanmates felt the same, 
their ears flicking up and their whiskers quivering. 

“Leafstar, you’re right,” the medicine cat went on. 
“StarClan has told me that our future does not lie in the 
gorge. I dreamed of SkyClan happy and safe together, 
in a place beside a large body of water.” 

“The river?” Rabbitleap asked. “But—” 

“Not the river,’ Echosong interrupted. “This was 
much wider and calmer. It is a place I’ve never seen 


before, not even in dreams.” 

Leafstar had listened to the medicine cat with a 
look of deep seriousness. “This confirms my plan,” she 
meowed. “StarClan wants us to leave this place. When 
we find ThunderClan, somewhere near this wide 
stretch of water, we will find our new home.” 

“But we don’t know where to look!” Blossomheart 
protested. 

“We know where to start. Bellapaw and Rileypaw 
will lead us back to where they used to live,” Leafstar 
told her. “We leave in two sunrises.” 

As the Clan leader announced her decision, the 
whole of SkyClan erupted into debate, a chorus of 
protests and questions swirling around her. 

“We can't leave!” Plumwillow exclaimed. “Not 
without knowing what happened to our other 
Clanmates.” 

“Yes!” Rabbitleap jumped to his paws. “What 
about Frecklewish, or Mistfeather? Where are they?” 

“And my kits are too young to travel so far,” 
Mintfur added, gathering the four tiny cats closer to 
her with a sweep of her tail. 

Hawkwing noticed that Harveymoon and 


Ebonyclaw, at the edge of the group of cats, were 
exchanging a few quiet words with each other. Then 
Harveymoon spoke up. 

“I can’t leave here,” he mewed, his voice soft but 
decisive. “I’m loyal to SkyClan, but I’m loyal to my 
Twolegs, too. I’m not going to leave them behind.” 

“That goes for me, too,” Ebonyclaw added. 

Hawkwing’s pelt bristled with shock at the black 
she-cat’s words. Ebonyclaw was my mentor—and no 
cat could have had a better one. Shes one of our 
best warriors. How can she give all that up to stay 
with Twolegs? 

He noticed that most of the cats who had not 
added their voices to the debate were looking just like 
he felt: hesitant and confused. But Pebblepaw was 
watching Leafstar closely, her eyes shining. Hawkwing 
realized that she was excited. She wants to go with 
Leafstar! 

Moving closer to Pebblepaw, Hawkwing brushed 
his pelt against hers. J cant imagine being without 
her, he thought. If she goes, I’m going too. 

Leafstar’s voice rang out again, silencing the 
tumult. “This is not up for discussion,” she meowed. “T 


am leaving. I will follow the vision StarClan has sent 
us.” 

“And I’m going too,” Echosong added. 

“Any cat who feels they can’t leave here may stay 
behind,” the Clan leader continued. “No cat will blame 
you. But first, before we go, we need to become a 
Clan again.” 

Thats true, Hawkwing thought. But how does 
Leafstar mean to do it? 





CHAPTER 20 
+ 


At sunrise on the following day, Leafstar called the 
Clan together. A gentle breeze was blowing, carrying 
the scents of the forest even into the heart of the 
Twolegplace. Hawkwing’s pelt itched with 
restlessness, and he had the sense that something 
momentous was about to happen. 

When her Clan was gathered around her, Leafstar 
beckoned with her tail to Bellapaw, Rileypaw, 
Pebblepaw, and Parsleypaw. The four young cats 
stepped out of the crowd, exchanging glances that 
were half excited, half bewildered. 

“We must become a Clan again,’ Leafstar 
announced, repeating her words from the day before. 
“Our journey will be hard, and there are dark times 
ahead. We will need every one of our warriors. And so 
this is the right time to make some new ones.” 

“What, us? Now?” Pebblepaw squeaked, then 
slapped her tail over her mouth in embarrassment. 

“Yes, you, now,” Leafstar confirmed, amusement 
glimmering in her amber eyes. “Come closer.” 


The four apprentices padded up to their leader, 
their eyes shining as they gazed at her. Hawkwing 
thought that his heart would burst with pride and 
affection as he watched Pebblepaw take her place. 

She 5 going to be such a fine warrior! 

“Rabbitleap,” Leafstar began, addressing 
Parsleypaw’s mentor, “has your apprentice trained 
well, and does he understand what it means to be a 
warrior?” 

“He has, and he does,” Rabbitleap replied 
solemnly. 

“Pebblepaw,” Leafstar went on, “your first mentor, 
Billystorm, was killed by the badgers on your first 
quest. And no cat knows what happened to his 
replacement, Sandynose.” 

At her words, Hawkwing saw Sandynose’s mate, 
Plumwillow, close her eyes in pain. It must be so hard 
for her, he reflected. Shes expecting kits, and she 
has no idea where their father is. 

“But I have watched you, Pebblepaw,” Leafstar 
continued, “and I know that you have earned your 
warrior name.” 

Pebblepaw glowed at her Clan leader’s praise, and 


Hawkwing kneaded the ground in front of him, purring. 
If any cat deserves this, it’s Pebblepaw! 

“Tinycloud.” Leafstar turned to Bellapaw’s mentor. 
“Are you satisfied that your apprentice has earned her 
warrior name?” 

“Without a doubt,” Tinycloud responded, while 
Bellapaw shivered in excitement. 

“And so has Rileypaw,” Nettlesplash added, 
without waiting to be asked. 

The Clan leader dipped her head in 
acknowledgment. “I, Leafstar, leader of SkyClan,” she 
continued, “call upon my warrior ancestors to look 
down on these apprentices. They have trained hard to 
understand the ways of your noble code, and I 
commend them to you as warriors in their turn.” 

Leafstar’s gaze rested on Parsleypaw, who 
straightened up, his whiskers quivering. “Parsleypaw,” 
Leafstar meowed, “do you promise to uphold the 
warrior code and to protect and defend this Clan, even 
at the cost of your life?” 

“T do,” Parsleypaw replied firmly. 

“Then by the powers of StarClan,’ Leafstar 
declared, “I give you your warrior name. Parsleypaw, 


from this moment you will be known as Parsleyseed. 
StarClan honors your loyalty and your courage, and we 
welcome you as a full warrior of SkyClan.” 

Taking a pace forward, Leafstar rested her muzzle 
on Parsleyseed’s head, and he licked her shoulder in 
response, before stepping back to stand beside his 
mother and father. 

“Parsleyseed! Parsleyseed!” the Clan acclaimed 
him. 

As soon as the noise had died down, Leafstar 
turned to Pebblepaw, and asked her the same question. 
“Do you promise to uphold the warrior code and to 
protect and defend this Clan, even at the cost of your 
life?” 

Pebblepaw held her head and tail high and her 
voice rang out clearly across the Twoleg garden. “T 
do.” 

“Then by the powers of StarClan,” Leafstar 
continued, “I give you your warrior name. Pebblepaw, 
from this moment you will be known as Pebbleshine. 
StarClan honors your determination and your 
intelligence, and we welcome you as a full warrior of 
SkyClan.” 


She rested her muzzle on Pebbleshine’s head, 
while Pebbleshine responded with a lick to her leader’s 
shoulder. 

“Pebbleshine! Pebbleshine!” 

Thats the perfect name! Hawkwing let his voice 
rise in a joyous yowl as Pebbleshine too retreated to 
her parents and touched noses with them. 
Pebbleshine shines like the brightest moon! Then 
she ran across to Hawkwing and twined her tail with 
his, her purrs almost as loud as a Twoleg monster. 

“I like your new name,” Hawkwing mewed as he 
gave her ear a lick. “It suits you.” 

He was so pleased that he barely paid any 
attention as Bellapaw and Rileypaw were made 
warriors, though he joined with the rest of his Clan in 
chanting their new names. 

“Bellaleaf! Rileypool! Bellaleaf! Rileypool!” 

The ceremony over, the Clan was beginning to 
disperse when Leafstar halted them with a 
commanding wave of her tail. 

“Wait,” she meowed. “We still have more to do.” 
When the Clan had settled again, she continued, “The 
youngest cats—kits and apprentices—are the future of 


any Clan. It’s time now for some kits to be 
apprenticed, and these strong young warriors-to-be 
should give us all hope. Fidgetkit, Curlykit, come 
here.” 

The two kits scampered up to their leader, their 
eyes brighter than they had been since Snipkit’s death. 
Birdwing and Sagenose watched them proudly, though 
Birdwing let out an exasperated sigh. “I’d have 
groomed them if I’d known. Look, Curlykit has a leaf 
in her fur!” 

“Fidgetkit,’ Leafstar began, “Echosong tells me 
you have shown a real interest in carmg for your 
Clanmates since the battle, and she thinks you would 
make a wonderful medicine cat.” 

Fidgetkit let out a gasp. “Really?” 

Leafstar dipped her head. “With Frecklewish 
missing, and new adventures ahead of us, SkyClan 
badly needs a medicine cat apprentice. It’s a difficult 
and important job, and a medicine cat stands apart 
from the rest of the Clan. If you take this step, you 
won't find a mate or have kits, and you'll be 
responsible for caring for your Clanmates and, 
eventually, passing along the will of StarClan. Fidgetkit, 


are you willing to take on this responsibility?” 

Solemn and with shining eyes, Fidgetkit nodded 
fervently. With a purr of approval, Leafstar turned to 
Echosong and beckoned her forward with a sweep of 
her tail. 

Echosong padded up to Fidgetkit and looked down 
at him, her green eyes full of wisdom. “Fidgetkit,” she 
mewed, “is it your wish to share the deepest 
knowledge of StarClan as a SkyClan medicine cat?” 

“It is,” Fidgetkit replied. He suddenly sounded 
much older, and completely certain that he was making 
the right choice. 

Echosong has chosen the right cat, Hawkwing 
thought. That must mean things are going to get 
better for SkyClan. 

“Warriors of StarClan,” Echosong continued, 
looking up at the sky, “I present to you this apprentice, 
who has chosen the path of a medicine cat. From this 
moment his name will be Fidgetpaw. Grant him your 
wisdom and insight so that he may understand your 
ways and heal his Clan in accordance with your will.” 

Fidgetpaw stood blinking in front of her, overcome 
with awe, scarcely reacting even when his Clanmates 


began to call his new name. Hawkwing could share 
some of his wonder. Thats a huge step for a kit to 
take. 

“Before the rogues came,” Echosong meowed 
when the Clan was quiet again, “I would have 
performed this ceremony in the Whispering Cave, 
where StarClan would have greeted you as a new 
medicine cat. I can’t do that now. But don’t worry, 
Fidgetpaw. Wherever we may be at the next half 
moon, you will meet with StarClan.” 

Fidgetpaw dipped his head. “Thank you, 
Echosong,” he whispered. 

The Clan was hushed and serious as Echosong 
drew Fidgetpaw to one side. Hawkwing knew that 
every cat shared his feelings: pride in their new 
medicine cat apprentice, but sadness too that 
Frecklewish was missing. 

Meanwhile, Leafstar turned to Curlykit, who had 
waited patiently while her brother was apprenticed. 
“From this day forward,” the Clan leader announced, 
“this apprentice will be known as Curlypaw. 
Hawkwing, you will be her mentor. I trust you will pass 
on to her your loyalty to your Clan, your generous 


heart, and your courage in battle.” 

What, me? Hawkwing thought, shocked to the 
very depths of his pelt. His heart was pounding hard as 
he stepped out of the crowd of cats to meet Curlypaw. 
Am I really ready to be a mentor? Even though no 
cat had blamed him, he knew that he should have been 
a better judge of character, to know what kind of cat 
Darktail really was. And he could never forget the last 
words Darktail had said to him: that they were alike. 
He wasn’t sure he deserved the faith that Leafstar 
was putting in him by making him a mentor. Will 1 
really be able to guide Curlypaw? She was so 
brave when the rogues attacked the nursery, and 
so determined to cross the river. . . . She has so 
much to offer her Clan. 

The little gray she-cat bounced up to him and 
stretched upward to touch noses with him. ‘PI work 
really hard,” she assured him. 

Then so will I, Hawkwing thought, his heart filling 
with warmth. “I know you will’ Hawkwing 
responded. “And Pll do my best to make sure you 
become a great warrior.” 


The next day dawned bright and warm, with a 


brisk wind that sent white puffs of cloud scudding 
across the sky. Hawkwing hoped that the fine weather 
was a good omen for the journey he and his Clan were 
about to make. 

The remaining cats of SkyClan gathered together 
under the bushes at the end of Ebonyclaw’s Twoleg 
garden. Hawkwing’s pads prickled with excitement, 
but there was a hollow feeling in his belly, because he 
knew that not all his Clanmates would be setting out on 
this new journey. 

“We’ve thought a lot about this, and decided we 
won't be coming with you,” Nettlesplash meowed, 
standing protectively over Mintfur and their litter. “The 
kits are too small to travel.” 

“They'll be safer here, on familiar territory,” 
Mintfur added. “But we’ll miss you all terribly. And 
who knows what StarClan has in store for us? Maybe 
one day we’ll all be together again,” she finished with 
a sigh. 

“Pm afraid we have to stay with our Twolegs.” 
Ebonyclaw was standing beside Harveymoon, who 
murmured agreement. 

“We’ll miss you all,” he told his Clanmates. “And 


we'll always be SkyClan warriors at heart. But this 
decision is right for us.” 

Listening to them, Hawkwing felt as if his life was 
splittng into two parts. There was Before, where he 
had lived in the gorge, played with Duskpaw and 
grieved over his death, trusted Darktail and then been 
betrayed by him. Now, from this point forward, his life 
would be After. After Darktail and his rogues took the 
gorge, and SkyClan was forced out. Hawkwing had no 
idea what After would hold, but he knew that he was 
unlikely to see the gorge or these cats again. 

Am I being selfish to want to leave with 
Pebbleshine? he asked himself, glancing over at 
Blossomheart, Cloudmist, and Cherrytail. Do I owe it 
to my father to attack Darktail and avenge his 
murder? A hot, sick feeling gathered in Hawkwing’s 
chest and throat, and he slid out his claws as if Darktail 
were right in front of him. 

While he hesitated, Curlypaw scampered up to his 
side. “This is so exciting!” she mewed. “Hawkwing, 
will you teach me to hunt while we travel?” 

Hawkwing dipped his head, his feelings of rage 
dissipating like fog when the sun broke through. “Of 


course.” 

My duty is to my Clan now. And if I’m going to 
be loyal to my Clan and to Leafstar, I have to 
follow where she leads. I have to be the best mentor 
to Curlypaw that I can be. 

Then his gaze met Pebbleshine’s. Her eyes were 
bright with excitement and hope at the thought of 
setting out into new territory. He realized, staring at 
her, that there had never been any real question of 
what his decision would be. Wherever Pebbleshine 
goes, I go. 

Leafstar nodded understandingly to the cats who 
were staying behind, though Hawkwing could see 
sadness in her amber eyes. “We will miss you,” she 
mewed. “But wherever your paws lead you, may 
StarClan light your path.” 

The Clan cats called out their good-byes as 
Leafstar led the way toward the Twoleg fence. But 
before any cat reached it there was a sudden scurry of 
paws from outside the garden. Macgyver appeared, 
leaping up to the top of the fence and tottering there 
for a heartbeat before he half fell, half jumped down 
beside his Clanmates. 


He's a bit of a show-off, Hawkwing thought, 
amused. 

“I thought I'd never find you!” Macgyver 
exclaimed. “My stupid Twolegs wouldn’t let me out. 
What’s happening?” 

“We're leaving,’ Waspwhisker replied, and 
explained to the daylight warrior everything that had 
happened since the battle in the gorge. 

“Then I’m coming with you,” Macgyver stated 
without hesitation. “I’ll miss my Twolegs, but, well... 
I’m a SkyClan cat!” He paused, and his Clanmates let 
out yowls of approval. Hawkwing joined in, glad that at 
least one of the daylight warriors had decided to stay 
with SkyClan as they searched for a new home. 

Twitching his whiskers happily, Macgyver turned to 
Leafstar. “So... ,” he began, “where are we going?” 

“Rileypool and Bellaleaf are going to lead us back 
to where they came from,” Leafstar told Macgyver 
when she could make herself heard. “Barley may be 
able to point us in the right direction to find 
ThunderClan. He’s our best hope, since Ravenpaw 
died.” 

Hawkwing’s fur tingled with excitement. This was 


a good idea. The old farm cat who had visited SkyClan 
territory with Ravenpaw had seemed kind and sensible 
—if any cat knew where the other Clans had gone, he 
would. 

The SkyClan cats followed Leafstar out of the 
Twoleg garden and began their careful journey through 
the Twolegplace. Pebbleshine and Blossomheart 
padded alongside Hawkwing, with Curlypaw hard on 
his paws. 

As they set out, Hawkwing felt his heart lift a little. 
Gazing at Pebbleshine and Curlypaw, he knew that 
these cats were giving him real purpose. Moving into 
life After isnt all bad. It was as though he was 
making a fresh start, as if he was leaving behind all the 
mistakes and sorrow of the past. / will be a different 
cat, he decided. / will think before I speak or act, 
and I will put my Clan before anything else. 

But then, as they approached the corner where 
two Thunderpaths met, Hawkwing glanced over his 
shoulder and saw his former mentor, Ebonyclaw, sitting 
on the garden fence, with the other cats Hawkwing 
had known all his life, watching their Clanmates go. 

Hawkwing let out a long sigh. I’m leaving such a 


huge part of my life behind here. 
But he knew that the cats beside him were his kin, 
and his future. 





CHAPTER 21 
+ 


Hawkwing stood on the edge of a shallow stream, 
gazing at the walls of the Twolegplace on the opposite 
side. All around him spindly hazel trees rustled in the 
wind. The ground underpaw was damp, and 
Hawkwing shivered as the chill struck upward through 
his pads. 

Two sunrises had passed since SkyClan had set 
out, and so far their journey had been easy. Though 
Hawkwing still felt the bitter loss of his way of life in 
the gorge, excitement was tugging his paws onward to 
find the new home by the water where they would 
meet the other Clans. 

But I guess we still have a long way to go, he 
thought. And I think our journey is about to get a 
whole lot harder. 

“This is the Twolegplace where we fought the 
battle against Dodge,” Leafstar meowed. “We must 
travel through it quickly, and hope we don’t meet any 
of the cats who live here.” 

Hawkwing’s ears pricked alertly at his leader’s 


words. The huge battle had been fought before he was 
born, but he had heard the story many times while he 
was still in the nursery. Some of the cats from the 
Twolegplace had traveled upriver to the gorge, and 
lived with SkyClan as warriors until they revealed they 
had come to ask for help. 

A vicious tom named Dodge was terrorizing them 
and their friends, and they weren’t strong enough to 
fight him off. Leafstar had led some of her warriors 
into battle in the Twolegplace, defeated Dodge, and 
forced him to agree to share the territory. 

Almost like they were two neighboring Clans, 
Hawkwing thought. 

“We don’t have to avoid all the cats,” Rabbitleap 
objected in response to Leafstar’s order. “Some of 
them were our friends. I was only a kit then, but I 
remember when they lived with us. They were 
friendly!” 

Leafstar gave a doubtful snort. “It wasn't as 
simple as that,” she replied. “I don’t want any more to 
do with those cats. So let's go, before they spot us.” 

A few fox-lengths downstream a fallen tree 
stretched across the water. Leafstar led the way to it 


and padded confidently across, then turned to wait for 
the rest of her Clan. 

As Hawkwing followed he shuddered at the 
gurgling sound of the current just below his paws, 
recalling the stepping-stones where Snipkit had fallen 
to her death. He kept a careful eye on Curlypaw and 
Fidgetpaw, wondering if their memories would make it 
harder for them to cross safely. 

This stream is too shallow to drown in, he 
reassured himself. /f some cat did slip, they would 
just end up damp. 

After a moment’s hesitation, both the apprentices 
padded over without any trouble, and Leafstar set out 
at the head of her Clan, farther into the Twolegplace. 

A narrow alley led directly ahead, the walls on 
either side so high that they let in little daylight. Every 
hair on Hawkwing’s pelt rose in apprehension as the 
shadows swallowed him up. 

Before he had gone many paw steps Hawkwing 
realized that this was nothing like the Twolegplace 
where the daylight warriors lived. The stone path felt 
slimy underpaw, and weird Twoleg rubbish lay 
scattered in all directions. The reek of Twolegs, 


monsters, and crow-food—and other things Hawkwing 
preferred not to think about—filled the air and almost 
choked him. 

Hawkwing’s pelt prickled more strongly still once 
he became aware of cats watching him and his 
Clanmates as they penetrated deeper among the 
Twoleg dens. He could scent the cats, but he never 
saw them; the air crackled with hostility. 

Curlypaw came to pad alongside him, so close that 
their pelts brushed. “I don’t like this,’ she murmured. 
“Ts it far to the other side, do you think?” 

“I don’t know,” Hawkwing replied. “Just stick 
close to me, and you’ll be fine.” 

He let out a trill of welcome as Pebbleshine 
bounded up to pad along on Curlypaw’s other side. 

“We're a whole Clan,” the mottled she-cat 
meowed reassuringly. “These Twolegplace cats had 
better not mess with us.” 

Hawkwing hoped that she was right. We still 
havent recovered from the battle in the gorge, he 
thought. The last thing we want is another fight. 

More alleyways branched off on either side, and 
sometimes the cats had to cross a Thunderpath. 


Leafstar seemed less confident as she continued, as if 
she wasn’t sure of the way any longer. Hawkwing 
recalled that she had only visited this Twolegplace 
once before. 

Its so big and confusing here, I wouldnt be 
surprised if Leafstar couldn t remember. 

Waspwhisker and Cherrytail, two of the cats who 
had accompanied Leafstar on that first expedition, 
walked beside her at the front of the group. At every 
corner or place where the path divided they would 
pause to discuss their route, before heading onward. 

Hawkwing began to feel even more uneasy. The 
sun was going down, and he realized that they would 
be stuck in this horrible place overnight. J wont be 
able to sleep a wink, thats for sure! 

Finally Leafstar led the way across a Thunderpath 
and down another alley which soon led out into a wide 
open space with a couple of monsters crouching at one 
side. Hawkwing examined them with narrowed eyes, 
and decided with a grunt of relief that they were 
sleeping. 

“I don’t remember this place at all” Waspwhisker 
mewed, gazing around in confusion. 


“Nor do I,” Cherrytail agreed. “We’ve never been 
here before.” 

Leafstar lashed her tail a couple of times in 
frustration. “We’ve been following the sun so far,” she 
pointed out after a moment’s thought. “If we keep on 
doing that, then we should be okay.” 

“And when the sun is gone?” Waspwhisker asked 
sharply. 

Already the sun had almost disappeared behind the 
rooftops of the Twolegplace, though red streaks in the 
sky showed where it was going down. Hawkwing 
could see that it wouldn’t be there to guide them for 
much longer. 

“We'd better get a move on,” Leafstar meowed. 
“This way.” 

But as the Clan leader headed for the entrance to 
another alley that led directly toward the sun, a dark 
shape appeared on top of the wall, outlined against the 
scarlet light. It leaped down into the mouth of the alley, 
and Hawkwing could see it was a brown tom with a 
short tail. He braced himself, ready if the newcomer 
should attack, and glanced around sharply to check for 
any other approaching enemies. 


The tom blinked, a friendly look in his amber eyes 
as he faced Leafstar and the SkyClan cats. “Hi,” he 
meowed. 

“Shorty!” Leafstar exclaimed. Hawkwing relaxed 
when he heard relief in his leader’s voice. “Greetings! 
How are you?” 

“Fine,” the brown tom, Shorty, replied. “Hey, I see 
some familiar faces here!” 

The older SkyClan warriors crowded around him, 
echoing Leafstar’s greeting. Hawkwing exchanged a 
glance with Pebbleshine. “This must be one of the cats 
who came to live in the gorge,” he murmured. 

“Sparrowpelt! Cherrytail . . . and Waspwhisker!” 
Shorty’s voice was warm, as if he was meeting again 
with old friends. “And this hulking great creature is 
little Rabbitkit?” 

“Rabbitleap now,” the warrior mewed proudly. 
“And this is Plumwillow.” 

“But what are you all doing here?” Shorty asked, 
when the excitement had died down. “Leafstar, this 
must be almost all of your Clan.” 

“This is all my Clan,” Leafstar responded, her tone 
bleak once more. “Rogues attacked us in the gorge 


and drove us out. Many cats were killed or scattered, 
and the rest of us have been forced to look for a new 
place to live.” 

For a moment, Shorty was silent in shock. “That’s 
terrible news,” he murmured at last. “You must let us 
help you.” 

“How can you do that?” Leafstar asked. 

“Well, at least we can offer you somewhere to 
spend the night,” Shorty replied. “It’s getting dark, and 
this is no place to be wandering around, not if you 
don’t know where you are.” 

While they had been talking the last traces of 
sunlight had vanished from the sky, and the alleyway 
ahead was plunged in gloom. Hawkwing didn’t like the 
idea of setting one paw step into those ominous 
shadows. 

“I wanted to move on quickly,” Leafstar meowed. 
“But perhaps you’ re right, Shorty.” 

“But only for one night,” Echosong put in, stepping 
up to her Clan leader’s side. “This is not where 
StarClan wants us to be.” 

Leafstar dipped her head. “Of course. Lead on, 
Shorty.” 


The brown tom’s amber eyes gleamed in the 
gathering darkness. “Great!” he exclaimed. “P1 show 
you the best way out in the morning. And you’ll meet 
some more old friends,” he added, giving his chest fur 
a couple of embarrassed licks. “I’m with Cora now. 
We have kits.” 

“That's wonderful news,” Leafstar purred. “Pd 
love to see Cora again.” 

Shorty gave a wave of his stumpy tail. “Follow me, 
then.” 

He led the SkyClan cats across the open space 
and down a narrow Thunderpath at the far side. 

“Do you think Leafstar is right to trust this cat?” 
Pebbleshine murmured to Hawkwing as they followed. 
“He might be leading us into a trap.” 

“He sounds friendy enough,” Hawkwing 
responded. 

“Its easy to sound friendly. But there were cats 
watching us on the way in, and they didn’t feel friendly 
at all.” 

“They could have been the other group,” 
Hawkwing pointed out. “Dodge’s cats.” 

Pebbleshine’s tail-tip twitched uneasily. “Maybe.” 


Shorty led the way along the Thunderpath until it 
came to an end and the cats emerged into another 
open space. Here the ground was covered in coarse 
grass with a few scrubby bushes here and there, and 
even one or two stunted trees. Hawkwing had stopped 
expecting to see anything green and growing, but the 
open ground was still washed with the acrid scents of 
Twolegs and monsters. 

“Do you think this is their camp?” he whispered to 
Pebbleshine. 

Shorty raised his voice in a loud yowl “Stick! 
Coal! Look who’s here!” 

Hawkwing stiffened, forcing his shoulder fur to lie 
flat as more cats emerged from the shelter of the 
bushes, fluid shadows in the twilight. As they drew 
closer he made out a skinny brown tom with a torn ear, 
and a more powerful black tom. 

Leafstar nodded to the newcomers. “Stick. Coal.” 

“Greetings,” the skinny tom, Stick, responded. 
“What brings you here, Leafstar?” 

Hawkwing had just enough time to notice the chilly 
nature of the exchange before Shorty burst in with a 
reply. “This is all of SkyClan, Stick! Rogues have 


driven them out of the gorge.” 

Stick’s whiskers twitched in surprise. “Really?” 

“That’s just terrible!” A new voice broke in, a 
graceful white she-cat who came bounding up with a 
plump tabby tom just behind her. “You remember me, 
don’t you—Snowy? And this is Percy.” 

“I remember you both.” Now there was more 
warmth in Leafstar’s tone. “It’s good to see you 
again.” 

The plump tabby dipped his head. Scars around 
one of his eyes gave him a fearsome look, but his voice 
was friendly as he meowed, “Welcome.” 

While they were talking, Shorty had dashed off, 
and now he returned with a slender black she-cat. 
Three kits—two tabby toms and a black-and-white 
she-cat—frisked around their paws. 

“Cora!” Leafstar exclaimed. “How are you?” 

“Fine, thank you.” Cora stretched forward to touch 
noses with the Clan leader. “Shorty says that you’ve 
been driven out of your territory. That’s terrible!” 

Leafstar let out a sigh. “Yes, but StarClan is 
guiding us to a new home.” Hawkwing guessed that 
she didn’t want to talk about her Clan’s troubles with 


these Twolegplace cats. “So these are your kits?” 

“Yes.” Cora’s eyes shone proudly. “The two 
tabbies are Branch and Stone, and the she-cat is Night. 
Kits, come and meet Leafstar.” 

The three kits, who had been happily play-fighting, 
straightened up and dipped their heads to Leafstar, 
gazing at her with wide eyes. 

“Shorty and I have told them all about you and 
your Clan,” Cora meowed. “But we never expected to 
see you here. Are you planning to stay?” 

“Just for the night, with your permission,” Leafstar 
replied. “I know there are a lot of us, but we can help 
you hunt.” 

“Good idea.” Stick waved his tail, beckoning more 
cats forward until they stood in a ragged half-circle 
behind him. To Hawkwing they looked younger—more 
like his own age and Pebbleshine’s—and he guessed 
they hadn’t yet been born when Leafstar and the 
others had visited the Twolegplace to fight against 
Dodge. 

Stick moved among them, rapidly giving orders and 
splitting the cats into patrols, mixing his own cats with 
SkyClan. Hawkwing found himself with Pebbleshine 


and a couple of strangers. 

“Where’s Curlypaw?” he asked, glancing around 
as the patrols began to move off. 

“I saw her going with Fidgetpaw and Bellaleaf,” 
Pebbleshine replied. 

“Mouse dung! I wanted her with me.” 
Hawkwing’s pads prickled with anxiety at the thought 
of his apprentice wandering off by herself in this dark 
and unfamiliar place. Then he reminded himself that 
she wasn’t alone; she had two Clanmates with her, and 
Twolegplace cats who knew their way around. 

She'll be fine, he told himself, though he wasn’t 
entirely convinced. 

“Hi, I’m Foggy,” one of the strange cats mewed. 
He was a long-furred gray tom; jerking his head 
toward the other, a small tortoiseshell, he added, “This 
is Suzy.” 

“Hi,” Pebbleshine responded. 

“Are you ready?” Suzy asked briskly. “We’ll show 
you some good places to hunt.” 

Hawkwing realized for the first time how hungry 
he was. “That sounds good to me,” he replied. “Lead 
the way.” 


“Pve never hunted in a Twolegplace before,” 
Hawkwing mumbled around the rat that he was 
carrying by the scruff. “It’s so weird.” 

Pebbleshine was dangling two mice by their tails. 
“We did all right, I suppose,” she meowed. “I never 
thought we’d find any prey. But it’s still not as good as 
hunting in a forest.” 

Hawkwing yearned for the feeling of grass 
underneath his paws and the rustle of wind in the trees 
above his head. “At least this is only for one night,” he 
pointed out. “We’ll manage . . . Just as long as no cat 
expects me to eat this rat. It tastes foul.” 

“TIl take it off your paws,” Foggy put in, glancing 
over his shoulder from where he and Suzy were 
padding ahead. He had caught a mouse, and Suzy had 
a blackbird. “There’s good eating on one of those.” 

Yuck! Hawkwing thought. 

When he and his patrol returned to the stretch of 
empty ground where the Twolegplace cats had their 
camp, more of the cats were gathering around one of 
the twisted trees in the center. Hawkwing spotted 
Leafstar and Stick with Sparrowpelt, Shorty, and the 
black tom called Coal. He padded over to join them, 


depositing his prey on a nearby heap for the cats to 
share. 

“How are things here with you?” Leafstar was 
asking Stick as Hawkwing came into earshot. 

Stick shrugged. “Dodge kept to his side of the 
border at first, but we’ve had a few skirmishes lately. 
I’m afraid he’s up to his old tricks.” 

“Things are getting really bad, just like before,” 
Shorty agreed. “Cora and I are scared for our kits.” 

“You need to scent-mark the border,” Leafstar told 
him. “And make sure that cats who cross it learn not 
to do it again.” 

“We’re not a Clan!” Stick’s eyes flashed at her. 

Hawkwing blinked in surprise at Stick’s hostile 
tone, then turned away as Pebbleshine offered him one 
of her mice. The two cats settled down close to 
Sparrowpelt to eat. 

“Why don’t Leafstar and Stick like each other?” 
Hawkwing asked the senior warrior in a low voice. 

Sparrowpelt swallowed a mouthful of thrush. 
“When we defeated Dodge, Stick wanted Leafstar to 
kill him. Leafstar wouldn’t do that. Stick was furious, 
and she was angry with him because he didn’t know 


how to treat a defeated enemy. She warned Dodge to 
stay on his own side of the border, and we left.” 

“It doesn’t sound as if Dodge is doing that 
anymore,” Pebbleshine commented. 

Sparrowpelt shrugged. “That's Stick’s problem.” 

Finishing his mouse, Hawkwing glanced around to 
see that most of the hunting patrols had returned. But 
he didn’t see Curlypaw. 

“Pm getting worried,’ he murmured to 
Pebbleshine. “Where is she?” 

His mate rose to her paws and gave the assembled 
cats a careful scrutiny. “Well, Bellaleaf and Fidgetpaw 
aren't here either,” she meowed. “Maybe they—” 

She broke off as a screech split the night. Bellaleaf 
raced out of an alleyway on the far side of the barren 
ground. Her fur was bushed up, and her eyes were 
wild; blood was trickling from a scratch above her eye. 
Fidgetpaw followed her more slowly, limping on three 
legs. 

“Leafstar! Leafstar!” Bellaleaf yowled. 

The Clan leader sprang up and wove her way 
rapidly out of the group of cats to meet Bellaleaf. 
“What's happened?” she demanded. 


“Oh, Leafstar, it’s terrible!” Bellaleaf gasped. 
“They took Curlypaw!” 





CHAPTER 22 
+ 


“Who? Where?” Leafstar 5 voice was urgent. 

“Other cats .. . They jumped down on us from the 
top of a wall,” Bellaleaf replied. “There were so many 
of them! I managed to get Fidgetpaw away, but I 
couldn’t help Curlypaw.” 

“What about Stick’s cats?” Leafstar asked. 
“Where are they?” 

“They ran away.” Bellaleaf’s mew was bitter. 
“Cowards!” 

By now Hawkwing and the others had leaped to 
their paws and were crowding around Leafstar and 
Bellaleaf. Echosong hurried up to Fidgetpaw and 
began examining his injured paw with careful sniffs. 

“We have to do something” Hawkwing 
exclaimed. “If they’ve hurt Curlypaw, I’IH—” 

“We must stay calm,” Leafstar interrupted sharply. 
“Bellaleaf, can you take us back to where this ambush 
happened? We can try to follow the scent trail and find 
out where these cats took Curlypaw.” 

“I wouldn’t bother.” Stick padded up to join the 


Clan leader. “They must have been Dodge’s cats, and 
if Dodge has your friend there’s nothing you can do to 
help her.” 

Leafstar whirled around to face Stick, a blaze of 
fury in her amber eyes. “We don’t abandon our 
friends,” she hissed. “We ’re Clan cats!” 

Stick shrugged. “Suit yourself.” 

“Stick, you should be ashamed of yourself!” Shorty 
exclaimed, bounding up to the group with more of 
Stick’s cats behind him. “Have you forgotten how 
SkyClan helped us? I’Il come with you, Leafstar.” 

“So will 1,” Snowy added. 

“Thank you,” Leafstar meowed. “Let's go. I'll 
take Bellaleaf, of course, and Rabbitleap, Harrybrook, 
Sagenose, and Tinycloud. Waspwhisker, you’re in 
charge here.” 

“What about me?” Hawkwing asked, his fur 
beginning to bristle in anger at being left out. 
“Curlypaw is my apprentice.” 

Leafstar fixed him with a hard gaze. “Can I trust 
you to follow orders and not lose your temper?” 

Hawkwing swallowed. “Yes,  Leafstar.” 
Underneath his anger was fear, fear that Curlypaw 


might be in real danger. 

“Then you can come. But...” 

Leafstar’s voice trailed off as she gazed past the 
twisted trees, toward the alley where Bellaleaf had 
appeared. Another cat had emerged, and was pacing 
slowly toward them. As he drew closer, Hawkwing 
could see that he was a powerful gray-and-brown 
tabby tom. Muscles rippled under his pelt as he padded 
up to the group and halted a tail-length away. 

Stick was glaring at him, his shoulder fur bristling 
and his eyes narrowed. “Harley!” he snarled. “You’re 
not welcome here!” 

Hawkwing thought that Harley looked no happier 
to be there than Stick was to have him, but his voice 
was even as he responded. “I’ve brought a message 
from Dodge. Not for you, Stick, but for Leafstar.” 

This must be another one of the cats Leafstar 
met when SkyClan was here before, Hawkwing 
thought. 

“What message?” Leafstar asked calmly. 

“Dodge has your cat,” Harley replied. “He wants 
you to meet him and discuss the situation. All of you,” 
he added, sweeping his tail around to include the whole 


Clan. 

“You must think they're all flea-brained,” Stick 
sneered. “Walk into Dodge’s territory, just like that? 
No way!” 

Harley ignored him. Dipping his head respectfully 
to Leafstar, he meowed, “I give you my word that 
none of you will be harmed until the meeting is over.” 

“And what is your word worth?” Stick challenged 
him. 

“That's not your affair,” Harley replied. “I’m not 
offering it to you. If you or any of your cats set paw in 
Dodge’s territory, you can expect trouble.” 

“Like I don’t know that!” Stick snorted. 

Leafstar gave Stick a sidelong glance. “I have to 
trust Harley,’ she stated. “We cannot abandon 
Curlypaw.” 

“But what if you’re wrong?” Waspwhisker asked, 
in the midst of uneasy murmuring from the rest of the 
Clan. 

“Then I’m wrong,” Leafstar replied. “But I believe 
StarClan will be with us if we do what is right.” To 
Harley she added, “Show us the way.” 

As the Clan moved off, Hawkwing heard a low 


mutter from some cat behind him. “Why can’t 
StarClan ever just say what they want us to do?” 

Harley headed back toward the alley, with the 
whole of SkyClan hard on his paws. Hawkwing 
padded at Leafstar’s shoulder, with Pebbleshine next 
to him. Apprehension swelled inside him with every 
paw step. Part of him would have liked to run and run 
until he left this terrible place behind him, but first he 
and his Clanmates had to rescue Curlypaw. So he kept 
padding steadily onward, grateful for the touch of 
Pebbleshine’s pelt against his own. 

Complete darkness had fallen. As Harley led the 
Clan deeper into the Twolegplace, the only light was 
pale and fitful as the moon appeared now and again 
through gaps in the clouds that surged across the sky. 
They followed a twisting path down alleys, over walls, 
and once through a tunnel beneath a Thunderpath, and 
Hawkwing thought that the only way they would be 
able to find their way back to Stick’s camp would be 
by following their own scent trail. 

Thats if any of us come back at all. 

Finally Harley drew to a halt outside a tumbledown 
Twoleg den. Two of the walls had almost completely 


crumbled away, the red square-cut stones lying 
scattered on the ground. The other two walls met at an 
angle across a stretch of muddy, broken ground where 
the uncertain moonlight reflected from puddles covered 
with rainbow-colored scum. In the center of the ruined 
den the ground fell away into a pit. 

Everywhere Hawkwing looked, cats were sitting 
on top of the tottering walls, or perched in the gaps 
where stones had fallen away. He almost felt as 
though their unblinking gazes were scorching his pelt. 

At the edge of the pit a dark brown tabby tom was 
sitting with his paws tucked under him. He rose as 
Leafstar padded forward across the broken ground, 
and took a pace forward to face her. 

Hawkwing drew in a sharp breath at the size of 
him and the powerful muscles of his shoulders and 
hindquarters. Slitted yellow eyes stared out from a flat 
face seamed with scars. One of his ears was shredded 
and there was another deep scar running from his neck 
to halfway down his flank. 

“That’s Dodge?” Pebbleshine whispered into 
Hawkwing’s ear. “Great StarClan, he looks 
dangerous!” 


As Leafstar halted in front of him with her Clan 
clustering around her, the tabby tom dipped his head, 
mockingly polite. “Welcome to my camp,” he meowed. 

Leafstar gave him a curt nod. “Where is our 
apprentice?” she asked. 

Before Dodge could reply, a desperate wail came 
up from the depths of the pit. “Leafstar, is that you?” 

At the sound of Curlypaw’s voice, Hawkwing 
thrust his way through his Clanmates to stand at the 
edge of the pit. Its sides were lined with more of the 
red Twoleg stone, and a jagged slope led downward 
from one corner. Curlypaw crouched at the bottom, 
with two hulking toms keeping guard over her. 

“I'm here, Curlypaw!” Hawkwing called. “Don’t 
be scared!” 

“Hawkwing! Thank StarClan!” Curlypaw yowled. 
She leaped to her paws, but one of the toms guarding 
her gave her a hard cuff over one ear, and she sank 
back down to the ground. 

“Stay there!” Hawkwmg told her. To his relief she 
didn’t look badly hurt. “We’ll get you out!” 

Turning away from the edge of the pit, he padded 
back to where Leafstar and Dodge still stood facing 


each other. 

“I was expecting a visit from you,” Dodge 
meowed. 

Leafstar’s whiskers twitched suspiciously. “What 
do you mean?” 

“Last time we met,” Dodge replied, “you told me 
to keep to my own side of the border, or you would 
come back and fight me again.” 

“And now you've broken that agreement,” 
Waspwhisker broke in. “But we didn’t know that. 
That’s not why we’re here.” 

Dodge licked one paw and drew it slowly over his 
uninjured ear. “Oh, I know why you're here,” he 
purred. 

“What do you mean?” Leafstar repeated sharply. 

“I expect that you’ve had a few visitors of your 
own,” Dodge responded. 

Leafstar and Waspwhisker exchanged a sudden, 
startled glance, and shocked exclamations rose from 
the Clan cats clustered around them. 

Hawkwing felt as though a wave of hot rage was 
surging through him. He shouldered his way forward 
until he stood nose to nose with Dodge. “You mean 


Darktail?” he choked out. “You know him?” 

Dodge raised one paw and thrust him back 
contemptuously. Hawkwing braced his muscles to 
spring, only to feel Leafstar’s tail laid warningly on his 
shoulder. 

“Hawkwmg, no,” she snapped with a shake of her 
head. Turning back to Dodge, she asked, “Did you 
send Darktail and his rogues to our camp?” 

“Not exactly,’ Dodge replied. “They passed 
through here a while back, looking for Clan cats. They 
would have found you anyway, but I might have helped 
them on their way a little.” 

Now Hawkwing's rage was burning deep within 
his belly. “Why?” he demanded. “A decent cat would 
have warned us.” 

Dodge’s yellow stare suddenly grew hard and 
malignant. “Do you think I’ve forgiven you for what 
you did to us?” he asked Leafstar. “No. I’ve often 
thought of gathering my cats together and traveling 
upstream to give you another taste of our claws. But 
then . . . well, wasn’t it lucky that Darktail and his 
rogues turned up to do the job for me?” 

Leafstar’s eyes were sparkling with anger, but 


Hawkwing could see the massive effort she was 
making to keep it under control. “So you’ve had your 
revenge.” Every word was spat out. “You have helped 
to wound my Clan—but we are not destroyed. 
SkyClan still lives!” 

A chorus of voices erupted from behind her. 
“SkyClan lives!” 

Leafstar waved her tail for silence and waited until 
the clamor of support from her Clanmates had died 
down. “So why are we here?” she asked Dodge. 
“Why have you taken one of my cats?” 

Dodge blinked slowly. “I told you I expected you to 
come through here,” he rasped. “So I made a plan. 
Now one of your cats is my prisoner. You can have 
her back unharmed if you fight on my side this time, 
and help me drive Stick and his cats out of this 
Twolegplace for good.” 

Hawkwing felt his jaws drop open in astonishment. 
Leafstar was gazing at Dodge as if she couldn’t 
believe what she had just heard. For a moment she 
didn’t reply. 

“Well?” Dodge slid out the claws of one paw and 
examined them nonchalantly. “Do we have a deal?” 


“We do not!” Leafstar snarled. “Stick and the 
others were our friends. Clan cats do not betray their 
friends.” 

Dodge shrugged. “Okay. If that’s the way you 
want it.” He turned aside and took a pace back toward 
the pit, his jaws opening to call out to Curlypaw’s 
guards. 

“Wait!” Leafstar followed him. “You can’t do 
this.” 

“Oh, I think you’ll find I can,” Dodge drawled. “Of 
course, you could always try fighting your way out, but 
that young cat of yours will still be the first to die.” 

From where he was standing Hawkwing couldn’t 
see Curlypaw, but he guessed she could hear what 
Dodge and Leafstar were saying. 

She must be so scared! he thought. She's such a 
young apprentice—hardly more than a kit. Oh, 
StarClan, help us! 

“Please . . .” The plaintive mew came from 
Birdwing, Curlypaw’s mother. Her eyes were full of 
fear and grief, and Hawkwing guessed she hardly 
knew what she was asking for. Whatever Leafstar 
decided, all their lives were in danger. 


Glancing around, Hawkwing realized that all the 
cats sitting around on the crumbling walls of the camp 
were suddenly more alert. Their eyes gleamed in the 
fitful ight, and many of them had risen to their paws, 
the fur on their shoulders rising. Here and there he 
caught the glitter of extended claws. 

They're only waiting for Dodge’ order before 
they tear us apart! 

In contrast, the cluster of SkyClan cats were 
hopelessly outnumbered, and not in any fit state to 
fight. Bellaleaf and Fidgetpaw had fresh wounds, while 
other cats, like Cherrytail, were still weakened from 
injuries they took in the gorge battle against Darktail. 

If we fight Dodges cats, we're bound to lose. 
But if we fight against Stick, we lose the honor of 
our Clan, and some of us will still die. What are we 
going to do? 

Then to Hawkwing’s surprise, the tabby tom 
Harley—who had escorted them from Stick’s camp— 
sprang up onto a pile of tumbled stones near the edge 
of the pit. 

“Dodge, this is wrong,” he protested. “I gave these 
cats my word that they would be unharmed until the 


meeting was over.” 

“It is over,” Dodge growled. “But PI give their so- 
called leader one more chance. What is it to be?” he 
asked Leafstar. “Fight for us, or against us? There’s no 
other choice.” 

Dead silence fell over the whole camp. Dodge’s 
cats waited with scarcely concealed excitement, while 
the cats of SkyClan were silent with horror. Beside 
Hawkwing, Pebbleshine stood rigid, her eyes closed. 

I wish I could tear that cat apart! Hawkwing 
glared at Dodge, trying to pour all the hatred he felt 
into his gaze. He helped Darktail, and now he's 
taken Curlypaw. But they would never let me get at 
him. 

“You’re just a coward,” Hawkwing snapped. “You 
keep your claws sheathed until you think you have the 
upper paw. But a real leader of cats steps up and 
leads even in the face of uncertainty. That is real 
bravery!” 

Dodge cocked his head, eyes narrowing in a 
contemptuous sneer. “Your ‘bravery’ won’t save you 
in a real fight. . . .” Dodge flexed his claws, hissing: 
“And we can prove that to you right now!” 





CHAPTER 23 
+ 


Hawkwing gave an amused mrrow, enjoying the 
way Dodge’s eyes flared in fury. “Cat for cat, we’re 
much better fighters than any of you. PI bet there’s 
not a single cat in your group that could stand a chance 
against one of our warriors.” 

Dodge let out an incredulous snort, while at the 
same time Leafstar exclaimed, “Hawkwmg, don’t be 
reckless!” 

“It’s not reckless,” Hawkwing retorted steadily. He 
turned back to Dodge. “You and me. If we fight and I 
win, then you let us go unharmed—including Curlypaw 
down there.” 

“And if I win?” Dodge rumbled, looking amused. 

“Then the SkyClan cats will fight for you, as you 
wish. You will have backup in your attack on Stick. 
But either way, you will release Curlypaw.” 

“Doesn't sound like much of a deal” Dodge 
meowed. “I’ve already got what I want.” 

“But have you?” Leafstar asked him. “If we 
decide to fight against you, then some of us will die. 


But so will some of your cats. Maybe even you.” 

“Unless you really are too much of a coward?” 
Hawkwing sneered. 

A flame of fury lit in Dodge’s yellow eyes. His 
tabby fur bristled until he looked almost twice his size. 
He slid out his claws. “Stop calling me a coward!” he 
snarled, and leaped straight for Hawkwing. “I accept 
your pathetic challenge!” 

Caught off guard by the unexpected onrush, 
Hawkwing was bowled off his paws. Dodge’s weight 
was pinning him down; he was half smothered by 
tabby fur. Dodge’s eyes gleamed close to his own. 

“Are you ready to die, mouse-breath?” Dodge 
hissed. 

“Not yet!” 

With a massive effort Hawkwing brought up his 
hind paws and thrust Dodge upward, enough for him to 
roll free and spring to his paws. In a brief glance he 
saw his Clanmates standing around them in a wide 
circle, ready to intercept any of Dodge’s cats who 
might try to interfere. 

As Dodge rushed at him again, Hawkwing stepped 
neatly aside and raked a pawful of claws across 


Dodge’s good ear and the side of his head. Dodge let 
out a screech, more of fury than pain. He spun around 
faster than Hawkwing would have thought possible 
and reared up on his hind paws. Hawkwing tried to 
dive in and slash at his belly, but Dodge dropped down 
on top of him, claws digging deep into his shoulders. 
For a moment Hawkwing staggered as a red wave of 
pain surged through him. He knew that if he fell to the 
ground now, the fight would be over. 

Letting himself go limp, he slid downward, bracing 
his legs underneath him. As Dodge let out a triumphant 
yowl, Hawkwing powered upward again, heaving 
Dodge’s massive weight off him. Briefly unbalanced, 
Dodge spat a curse, and Hawkwing leaped at the 
muscular tom in a storm of teeth and claws. The two 
cats wrestled in a screeching knot of fur, their legs and 
tails tangled together. 

Head spinning, Hawkwing fought free and sprang 
back, taking in huge gulps of air. Dodge faced him, lips 
drawn back in a snarl. Blood was trickling from his 
shoulder and a clump of fur was missing from his 
chest; Hawkwing didn’t even remember striking the 
blows. 


A confused roaring sound was coming from all 
around him, and as his head cleared Hawkwing 
realized that his Clanmates were chanting his name. 
“Hawkwing! Hawkwing!” He caught a glimpse of 
Pebbleshine, her eyes glowing with pride. 

The support from his Clan poured new energy into 
Hawkwing. He sprang at Dodge, darting past him 
while he slashed his claws down Dodge’s side. Dodge 
followed him up with lumbering paw steps. 

Hes slowing down! Hawkwing thought with a 
spark of hope. Hes a big cat, but big cats like him 
dont have much energy. Hes tiring. Maybe I can 
win this battle! 

But Dodge wasn’t finished yet. He hurled himself 
at Hawkwing, carrying him off his paws again and 
using his greater weight to hold him down. Blinded by 
his fur, Hawkwing felt teeth meet in his shoulder. With 
Dodge pressing down on him, he could hardly breathe. 
He struggled to free himself, but he could feel his 
strength beginning to ebb away. 

But in the darkness of Hawkwing’s mind a vision 
appeared. He remembered the last time a strong cat 
had him pinned to the ground; remembered Sharpclaw 


in combat, unaware of the rogue cat, Rain, sneaking up 
on him... . 

The memory fell away, and Hawkwing thought of 
Darktail triumphant in the gorge, while SkyClan 
scattered. Dodge could have warned us, and then 
none of us would have trusted Darktail. But he 
didnt... I will not die at the claws of this vile cat! 

Hawkwing gathered all his remaining strength. 
Freeing a paw, he lashed out at random. He felt his 
claws slice through fur and flesh, and warmth gushed 
over his paw. The grip of Dodge’s teeth slackened and 
his body convulsed; one flailing paw caught Hawkwing 
in the belly. 

Pulling away, Hawkwing tottered to his paws and 
saw Dodge lying in front of him, a twitching heap of 
tabby fur. Blood still pumped from a gash in his throat. 
As Hawkwing gazed at him the last twitches faded 
and his eyes began to glaze over. 

He's dead! Hawkwing could hardly believe what 
he was seeing. 7 killed him without even knowing it. 

As he stood there, breathing hard, stunned at 
finding himself still alive, Hawkwing’s Clanmates 
surged around him. 


“You won!” 

“Well fought!” 

“Hawkwing! Hawkwing!” 

Pebbleshine ran up to him and rubbed her cheek 
against his. “You're so brave!” she whispered. “And 
so stupid!” 

Gradually triumph began to swell in Hawkwing’s 
chest. He could feel the pain from Dodge’s teeth and 
claws in his shoulders, and the stinging of innumerable 
scratches he hadn’t felt before, but none of that 
mattered. 

SkyClan is safe! 

A moment later he wasn't so sure. Furious 
screeches came from Dodge’s cats; some of them 
leaped down from their positions on the walls and 
came bounding toward Hawkwing and his Clanmates. 

At a swift order from Leafstar, the SkyClan cats 
gathered m a tight circle, facing outward, with 
Hawkwing and the other wounded cats in the center. 
Despite his injuries, Hawkwing wriggled through to the 
outside, ready to take part in what might be SkyClan’s 
last battle. 

“Stop!” 


Before any of Dodge’s cats could reach SkyClan’s 
defensive circle, Harley let out a yowl from where he 
still stood on top of the pile of stones. The attacking 
cats halted, giving each other uncertain glances. 

“Dodge made a bargain, and he lost,’ Harley 
continued. “Now we must honor it. SkyClan must be 
allowed to leave, unharmed.” 

“Just like that?” One of the cats, a ginger-and- 
white tom, looked up at Harley with disbelief in his 
eyes. 

“Exactly like that, Skipper,’ Harley retorted. 
Raising his head to address all the cats, he continued, 
“Do you want to live like this, always fighting and 
killing? There's enough prey in this Twolegplace for 
every cat. We should stay on our side of the border 
and let Stick and his cats stay on theirs.” 

To Hawkwing’s surprise, yowls of agreement 
came from all around on the rumed walls. He could 
see that not all the cats were happy about what Harley 
had said, but none of them argued any further, and 
none of them moved forward to attack. 

“I hope Harley can establish himself as leader,” 
Sparrowpelt murmured into Hawkwing’s ear. “He 


would do a better job of it than Dodge, that’s for sure.” 

“Bring up the prisoner,” Harley ordered. 

Soon Hawkwing saw the two guards escorting 
Curlypaw up the jagged slope to ground level. She 
rushed over to Sagenose and Birdwing; they pressed 
closely against her and covered her ears with licks. 

“Thank you,” Leafstar meowed to Harley. “Now 
will some cat show us the way out of here?” 

“T can do that.” A small, dark shape darted out of 
the shadows behind the ruined wall; Hawkwing 
recognized Shorty. 

“What are you doing here?” Harley challenged 
him. 

Shorty dipped his head. “T followed my friends,” he 
replied, angling his ears toward the SkyClan cats. “T 
needed to know what was going on. Wouldn't you 
have done the same?” he challenged Harley. 

A glimmer of amusement appeared in Harley’s 
eyes. “I suppose I would,” he admitted. “Now get out 
of here. All of you.” 





CHAPTER 24 
+ 


“Tuck your hind paws in a bit further,” Hawkwing 
told Curlypaw. “That way, you get more strength in 
your pounce.” 

“Like this?” Curlypaw asked, shifting her paws 
farther forward. 

“Very good. But if you stick your tail up in the air 
like that, the mouse will see you coming.” 

The cats of SkyClan were sprawled out on the 
riverbank, taking a rest in the warmth of sunhigh. The 
river was wider here, winding along more slowly than 
in the gorge, and the edge was thickly fringed with 
reeds. On the landward side, a grassy slope stretched 
upward to where trees were outlined against the sky. 

Several days had passed since the SkyClan cats 
had left the Twolegplace. Hawkwing’s wounds from 
his fight with Dodge were healing well, and he no 
longer needed Pebbleshine to hunt for him. But it was 
still pleasant to relax and feel his strength returning as 
the sun soaked into his pelt. 

“She's doing well” Blossomheart meowed as she 


watched Curlypaw practicing the hunter’s crouch. 

“I think she is,” Hawkwing agreed. “Curlypaw,” he 
went on, “you need to understand that hunting on the 
move, like we are, is very different from hunting in 
familiar territory.” 

Curlypaw sat up, her eyes wide as she drank in 
every word her mentor was saying. 

“On the move,” Hawkwing continued, “you have 
to be continually scouting for good spots where prey 
might be hiding. But in a familiar place, you already 
know the likely spots.” 

“Yes,” Blossomheart put m. “Do you remember 
that rotting tree stump near the gorge? It was almost 
always full of mice.” 

“Of course I remember it,” Hawkwing responded 
with a happy sigh. “The prey practically leaped into our 
paws.” 

Curlypaw’s eyes gleamed. “Do you think there’ll 
be lots of good hunting spots in our new home by the 
water, when we find it?” she asked. 

“Pm sure there will be,” Hawkwing replied. “And 
you remember Leafstar telling us about the friendly 
ThunderClan cats, Firestar and Sandstorm? They’ll 


probably tell us the best places to hunt. Now,” he 
added, “can you see a likely hunting spot around 
here?” 

Curlypaw sprang to her paws and looked around. 
“What about up the slope?” she suggested, pointing 
with her tail toward a big oak tree with lots of twisting 
roots. “Prey could be hiding in there!” 

“Very good,” Hawkwing purred. “Why don’t you 
go and check it out?” 

While Curlypaw sped off up the slope toward the 
tree, Hawkwing followed more slowly. Blossomheart 
fell into step beside him. 

“Do you think we’ll ever find Barley?” she 
meowed quietly after a moment. “We’ve been 
traveling for days and days. I didn’t get the impression 
that it took Barley that long to get to us when he and 
Ravenpaw brought Bellaleaf and Rileypool to 
SkyClan.” 

“You may be right,’ Hawkwing responded. 
“Rileypool and Bellaleaf were very young when they 
made the journey. I wonder if they really remember 
the way.” 

“Well, they know to follow the river” 


Blossomheart mewed. “That’s easy enough. But I 
don’t think Barley lives on the riverbank. So at some 
point we have to leave it, and maybe Bellaleaf and 
Rileypool don’t remember where. We could already 
have come too far.” 

A yowl interrupted their conversation. “Cats of 
SkyClan! It’s time to move on!” Leafstar ordered. 

Hawkwing turned back with Blossomheart and 
called to Curlypaw, who was crouched among the oak 
roots. He headed toward Cherrytail and Cloudmist, 
who had been resting in the shade of the reeds by the 
water’s edge. 

Anxiety bit at Hawkwing when he looked at his 
mother. She still seemed tired and she stumbled a little 
as she rose to her paws in response to Leafstar’s 
summons. 

“Are you okay?” he asked, padding up to her. 

“I'm a bit weak still” Cherrytail admitted, “but I'll 
be fine. I don’t want to slow any cat down. We have 
to find the other Clans!” 

Then I hope we find them quickly, Hawkwing 
thought. I’m not sure Cherrytail is up to a long 
journey. 


“We’ll be heading off in a different direction,” 
Leafstar announced, when all the Clan was gathered. 
“Bellaleaf thinks she’s recognized a landmark.” 

“Over there!” Bellaleaf meowed excitedly, 
flourishing her tail at a tall pointed hill outlined on the 
horizon. “You can see that from where Barley lives.” 

Hawkwing and Blossomheart exchanged a glance, 
relieved that they seemed to be getting somewhere. 
“Maybe we’re not far away from the other Clans!” 
Blossomheart exclaimed. 

At that moment Curlypaw dashed up. Her eyes 
were sparkling with triumph and the limp body of a 
mouse dangled from her jaws. “Look!” she exclaimed, 
dropping her prey at Hawkwing’s paws. “I caught 
one!” 

“Your very first! Well done,’ Hawkwing praised 
her, almost as pleased as Curlypaw herself. “Now you 
can take it to Clovertail. Warriors take care of Clan 
elders. And after that you can walk with Fidgetpaw for 
a while. Pm sure you want to hear all about his 
medicine cat training.” 

Curlypaw padded off importantly with her prey, her 
tail straight up in the air. 


While they rested, Pebbleshine had sat down to 
groom herself and talk to Plumwillow, whose belly was 
swelling with her unborn kits. Hawkwing knew that all 
the Clan shared his compassion for the pregnant she- 
cat. It must be so hard, expecting kits when she has 
no idea what happened to her mate. 

Now, as the Clan turned away from the river, 
Pebbleshine bounded up to Hawkwing to walk 
alongside him. There was a gleam of excitement in her 
eyes, and a spring in her step that Hawkwing hadn’t 
noticed before. 

“What’s going on?” he asked. 

“Nothing.” Pebbleshine turned toward him, blinking 
innocently. “Nothing at all.” 

And hedgehogs fly, Hawkwing thought. 
Pebbleshine was hiding something, he was sure. Vell, 
she'll tell me about it in her own good time. 

“How is Plumwillow doing?” Blossomheart asked. 

At once Pebbleshine looked more serious. “She’s 
coping well,” she replied, “but she misses Sandynose a 
lot. It must be so hard to lose her mate,” she added 
with a sigh. “Especially when she’s expecting their 
kits.” 


Hawkwing exchanged a glance with her, and saw 
all the love she felt for him shining in her eyes. “I can’t 
imagine losing you,” he murmured. 

“Well, excuse me!” Blossomheart snorted, half 
amused, half exasperated. “I’m going to walk with 
Tinycloud.” She bounded off and joined the small white 
warrior. 

As the cats continued, the grassland became 
broken up by lines of bushes or Twoleg fences made 
of shiny tendrils, reminding Hawkwing of the terrain he 
had crossed with Darktail and Rain on the second 
quest. His pelt prickled with uneasmess, though he told 
himself that he had no reason to suspect danger here. 

“This is so weird!” Pebbleshine exclaimed as they 
slipped along the edge of one of the fences. “Look at 
those huge white animals! I’ve never seen anything so 
big.” 

“Those are cows,” Hawkwing told her. 

“They look like they could swallow a cat with one 
gulp,” Curlypaw meowed, keeping close to Hawkwing 
as they padded past. 

“No, they’re not dangerous,” Hawkwing reassured 
her, watching the cows rhythmically champing the 


grass beyond the fence. “They don’t have any claws, 
and as far as I know they only eat plants. Besides, 
they can’t move as fast as we can.” 

They had not left the cows far behind when 
Hawkwing heard a screech of triumph from the front 
of the Clan, where Rileypool and Bellaleaf were 
walking with Leafstar. 

“That's it!” Bellaleaf exclaimed. “That's our kin 
Barley’s barn!” 

Every cat clustered around to look where 
Bellaleaf’s tail was pointing. Hawkwing spotted a 
huddle of Twoleg dens in the distance, and another, 
larger den a little way away from them. 

Bellaleaf and Rileypool were purring with 
excitement. “I knew we’d find it!” Rileypool mewed, 
though Hawkwing thought he could detect relief in his 
Clanmates’ faces, as if they hadn’t been quite sure 
they could find the barn until they actually set eyes on 
It. 

Hawkwing’s optimism was rising as he and his 
Clanmates veered toward the barn. He could see from 
their bright eyes and brisk paw steps that the others 
felt the same, now that the first stage of their journey 


was coming to an end. Maybe we’re not far from 
finding ThunderClan and our new home by the 
water. 

As they drew closer to the barn, they could hear 
the distant barking of a dog, which sounded like it was 
coming from the cluster of Twoleg dens. Hawkwing’s 
pelt began to bristle, and Leafstar called for a halt. 

“Stay closer together,” she ordered. “Stronger 
warriors on the outside. Cherrytail, Clovertail, 
Plumwillow, keep in the middle of the group. And 
every cat, stay alert!” 

Bunched together more tightly, the cats moved off 
again, using bushes for cover. The barking continued, 
but grew no nearer, and there had been no sign of the 
dog by the time they approached the barn. 

Rileypool and Bellaleaf broke away from the rest 
of the Clan and bounded up to the barn door. “Barley! 
Barley!” they yowled excitedly. 

Hawkwing spotted a flicker of movement at the 
bottom of the door, and recognized the broad, black- 
and-white face of the old farm cat peering out through 
a gap. 

“Rileypaw?  Bellapaw?” Barley sounded 


astonished. “What are you doing here?” 

“We’re Rileypool and Bellaleaf now,” Rileypool 
told the farm cat proudly. 

“Congratulations!” Barley meowed. He squeezed 
his plump body out through the gap and only realized as 
he straightened up how many cats were standing in 
front of him. His eyes widened. “What are you all 
doing here?” 

Leafstar stepped forward and dipped her head to 
the farm cat. “It’s a long story,” she meowed. “May 
we come in?” 

“Of course.” 

Barley stood aside and Leafstar led the remains of 
her Clan through the gap and into the barn. 

Hawkwing was one of the last cats to enter, and 
stood motionless for a few heartbeats as he took in his 
surroundings. Dim light filtered in through holes in the 
roof. Dried grasses were heaped up everywhere in 
huge piles, and the air was filled with their sweet 
scent. There was another scent too: Hawkwing’s 
mouth watered as he picked up the unmistakable 
traces of mice and heard the rustle of their tiny bodies. 

While most of the cats settled down comfortably in 


the dried grass, Leafstar told Barley the story of how 
Darktail’s rogues had driven SkyClan out of the gorge. 
Echosong added the prophecy StarClan had sent to 
her, and how they were sure that “the spark that 
remains” must refer to Firestar’s kin. 

‘Tm so sorry to hear what happened to you,” 
Barley meowed when they had finished. “And sorry 
too that your vision must mean that Firestar is dead. I 
can point you in the direction Ravenpaw told me the 
Clans went, but I don’t know anything beyond that.” 
He sighed. “The days when Ravenpaw and I lived 
alongside the Clans seem such a long time ago now.” 

For a moment the old cat remained lost in thought, 
his eyes seeming fixed on something in the distance; 
Hawkwing realized he must still be grieving for his 
friend. 

Then Barley gave his pelt a shake. “You're all 
welcome here,” he mewed. “Feel free to hunt; there’s 
plenty for every cat.” 

His words made Hawkwing aware of the yawning 
emptiness in his belly. What he had told Curlypaw 
earlier was true: It was harder to find prey when the 
Clan was on the move. Along with every other cat, 


Hawkwing had become used to feeling hungry. 

“Let’s go,” he meowed to Curlypaw. “You can 
show me your hunting technique.” 

His apprentice sprang up, bright-eyed, and began 
prowling among the heaps of grass. Tiny sounds of 
scuttling and squeaking came from all directions. 

Hawkwing watched his apprentice with approval, 
noticing how she remembered to set her paws down 
lightly. When she had pinpointed her prey her hunter’s 
crouch was perfect; waggling her hindquarters, she 
sprang into a vigorous pounce. Hawkwing heard a 
shrill squeal cut off in the middle, and Curlypaw stood 
up with a mouse dangling from her jaws by its tail. 

“Great catch!” Hawkwing purred. “You’ve got a 
real talent for pouncing.” 

Curlypaw’s eyes shone at his praise, and she 
carried her prey over to where Cherrytail, Plumwillow, 
and Clovertail lay stretched out in the dried grass; 
Echosong was checking Cherrytail’s wound. 

Hawkwing caught a couple more mice for the 
exhausted she-cats, marveling at how easy it was. It's 
no wonder Barley looks so plump! 

“Thank you,’ Cherrytail murmured, giving her 


mouse a sniff. “This is a good place. I’m so glad we 
came here.” 

“Yes, it’s great,’ Hawkwing responded, wondering 
with a prickle of concern if his mother really thought 
this was the end of their journey. “And Barley should 
be able to help us find the other Clans.” 

Cherrytail gave him a puzzled look, her eyes 
clouded by weariness. “Oh, yes, of course,” she 
mewed at last. 

Hawkwing still wasn’t sure that Cherrytail was 
fully aware of what was going on. She'll be better 
after a good night’s sleep, he reassured himself. 

Finally Hawkwing and Curlypaw were able to hunt 
for themselves. As Hawkwing was stalking a mouse, 
he came close to where Leafstar and Waspwhisker 
were talking to Barley. 

“I don’t know how you're going to find 
ThunderClan,” he heard the old tom meow. “It's a big 
world out there, and you don’t know where you're 
going.” 

“StarClan will guide us,” Leafstar told him. 
“They”ll send Echosong a vision.” 

Barley let out a grunt, as if he wasn’t convinced, 


and Hawkwing found that he shared the farm cat’s 
doubts. / hope that Leafstar is right, and StarClan 
is watching over us, he thought. But Barley is right, 
too. Its a big world out there, and full of dangers. 
Besides, there arent so many of us now. How many 
more fights do we have left in us? 


Clouds were building up, covering the sun, as the 
SkyClan cats ventured out of the barn on the following 
morning. Hawkwing fluffed out his pelt against the 
damp air, guessing that it would rain before long. Cold 
seeped into his pads from the dew that still remained 
on the grass. 

“That’s the way you need to go,” Barley meowed, 
pointing with his tail to the hill Rileypool and Bellaleaf 
had spotted from the riverbank. “After that, I can’t 
help you.” 

“Its a start,” Leafstar responded. “We're all 
grateful to you, Barley.” 

“It’s been good to see you again,” Waspwhisker 
added. 

Leafstar gestured with her tail to gather her Clan 
around her, but before they could move off, Cherrytail 
spoke up. 


“There’s something I have to say,” she began 
hesitantly, looking down at her paws. “I’ve been talking 
to Barley, and I’ve decided to stay here in his barn until 
I’ve recovered from my injury.” 

Surprised exclamations rose from every cat. “You 
can't!” Hawkwing exclaimed. 

Cherrytail raised her head, gazing at him with eyes 
filled with love and sorrow. “I have to,” she insisted. “I 
haven’t felt right since we left the gorge. It’s not just 
this infected wound. It’s leaving the place where 
Sharpclaw was killed.” Her voice shook as she 
continued. “He was my mentor when Firestar first 
restored SkyClan. All my life in the gorge was with 
him. Now I feel as though I’m leaving him behind.” 

“But we need you!” Blossomheart protested, 
staring at her mother with consternation. 

Cherrytail’s gaze traveled over Hawkwing, 
Blossomheart, and Cloudmist; she blinked rapidly as 
she struggled to control her emotion. “I love you all 
dearly,” she whispered. “But I’m not sure I’m up for 
this journey. My body is too weak, and my heart is 
tugging me home.” 

“But it’s not our home anymore,” Cloudmist 


pointed out. “You can’t go back to the gorge, not when 
Darktail and his rogues are there.” 

“I don’t know where PI go,” Cherrytail mewed. 
“But for now, I want to stay here.” 

Hawkwing shook his head, desperate to find some 
way of making his mother change her mind. “We’ve 
just lost our father,” he meowed. “Now you say you’re 
going to leave us too?” 

Cherrytail glanced from Hawkwing to Pebbleshine 
and back again. “Your future lies ahead of you, where 
the Clans are. I’m not sure where my future lies, and I 
need time to work it out. Oh, my dear kits, you are all 
so brave and loyal. I shall miss you dreadfully, but I 
can’t follow you into a future I know is not the right 
one for me.” 

“Then I’m staying with you.” Cloudmist took a 
pace forward to stand at her mother’s side. “I can’t 
lose you, so soon after losing Sharpclaw.” 

Cherrytail turned to look at her daughter, all the 
love she felt shining in her eyes. “I can’t ask you to do 
that,” she whispered. “You belong with your Clan.” 

“And so do you” Cloudmist responded 
determinedly. “And we”Il both find our Clan again one 


day. I know it.” 

She brushed her pelt against Cherrytail’s, and her 
mother didn’t protest again. 

Hawkwing stared at them both, unable to believe 
that this was happening. He couldn’t share Cloudmist’s 
certainty. My family is breaking up like ice in 
newleaf! Shock almost overwhelmed him; his legs felt 
weak and his head as light as if it would drift away like 
a cloud. His heart clenched in dread that he would 
have to go on without his mother and sister and never 
see them again. A dark mist swirled before his eyes. 

Then Pebbleshine drew close to him, nuzzling his 
flank, and Hawkwing felt the darkness retreat. 

“Then, good-bye,” he murmured, dipping his head 
to his mother and sister in acceptance. “I hope we’ll 
meet again one day.” But I’m not sure we will, and 1 
can hardly bear it. 

“That's in the paws of StarClan,’ Cherrytail 
responded. “But I hope so, too. I’m so proud of you, 
Hawkwing. I know you will go on to achieve great 
things.” 

Hawkwing touched his nose to hers and stepped 
back, while Blossomheart said good-bye too. /s this 


really the last time we ’ll see our mother? Hawkwing 
asked himself, his legs shaking with renewed shock. 

Then Leafstar turned away, and the whole Clan 
began to move off. Hawkwing followed, with 
Pebbleshine by his side, but before they lost sight of 
the barn he looked back, to see his mother and sister, 
tiny at that distance, sitting with Barley outside the 
barn door. 

“May StarClan light your path,” he murmured. 


SkyClan had begun the day with full bellies, for 
they had hunted in Barley’s barn before they set out. 
But as the day wore on, Hawkwing began to feel 
hungry again. 

“Are we going to hunt soon?” Curlypaw asked. “I 
feel like I haven’t eaten for moons!” 

“Soon,” Hawkwing promised. “You can show off 
the moves I’ve been teaching you, and maybe you’ll 
catch a nice shrew!” 

Glancing around, he realized that all the cats were 
looking thinner than when they left the gorge, 
especially the two young apprentices. Thinking back to 
the conversation he had overheard between Barley 
and Leafstar, Hawkwing wondered what would 


happen if StarClan didn’t guide them to their new 
territory before Plumwillow’s kits were born. 

I'd better sharpen my own hunting skills, he 
reflected. I’m going to need them! 

Skirting the foot of the hill Barley had pointed out, 
the cats came upon a stretch of woodland where a 
stream ran through banks of fern and bramble. 
Leafstar announced that they would stop to rest. 

“See if you can find any mice or shrews in the 
undergrowth,” Hawkwing suggested to Curlypaw. 

Though Curlypaw’s tail had been drooping in 
weariness, she straightened up as soon as Hawkwing 
spoke, a determined look on her face. Hawkwing 
watched as she padded off, proud of her willingness to 
help her Clan. She 5 going to be a great warrior. 

When his apprentice had vanished into the 
bracken, Hawkwing gazed up into the trees and 
spotted a squirrel leaping from branch to branch. 

That looks good and fat, he thought. One or two 
of those would fill our bellies nicely. 

When he spotted a second squirrel higher in the 
branches, Hawkwing couldn’t resist the temptation any 
longer. I’m a SkyClan cat; I can handle trees. 


Without thinking, Hawkwing sprang into the 
nearest tree, swarming up the trunk and out onto a 
branch near where he had seen the squirrel. Pausing to 
taste the air, he spotted Fidgetpaw staring up at him, 
and Curlypaw, emerging from the undergrowth with a 
mouse in her jaws, dropped her prey, and let out a yowl 
of excitement. 

Pebbleshine had spotted him too. “Be careful!” she 
called out. 

Hawkwing didn’t understand why his mate 
sounded so nervous. She's not usually like that, he 
thought. Its like she’s never seen me climb a tree 
before. 

Determined to prove that Pebbleshine had no 
reason to fuss over him, Hawkwing leaped farther and 
faster, showing off his strength and skill. The squirrel 
was just ahead of him, its bushy tail streaming out 
behind it as it jumped from branch to branch, farther up 
the tree. 

Hawkwing ignored the way the branches at this 
height were much thinner, hardly able to bear his 
weight. He was stretching out his forepaws to grab the 
squirrel with his claws when he felt his hind paws 


slipping. He let out a yelp of alarm as he tried to regain 
his balance, but the branch sagged under him and a 
moment later he was falling. Legs and tail flailing, he 
bounced from branch to branch, twigs raking through 
his fur, until he landed hard on his paws, staggered, and 
collapsed on one side. 

At once his Clanmates clustered around him. 

“Hawkwmg, you stupid furball!” Blossomheart 
exclaimed. 

“Are you all right?” Pebbleshine asked anxiously, 
the question echoed by almost every cat. 

“That was amazing!” Fidgetpaw sounded 
awestruck, gazing at Hawkwing with his eyes 
stretched wide. “But scary,” he added. 

“And quite unnecessary,’ Echosong mewed 
sharply, padding up to Hawkwing and beginning to prod 
him all over. “Does that hurt?” she asked with each 
prod. 

Hawkwing took a deep breath, ready to snap at 
her, then calmed down as Pebbleshine crouched beside 
him and gently licked his cheek. 

“T’m bruised and scraped from hitting the branches 
on the way down,” he complained. 


“And you're lucky you did,” Sparrowpelt told him 
crisply. “At least they broke your fall.” 

Hawkwing nodded. “I suppose . . . I don’t think 
I’m badly hurt,” he added to Echosong. 

But as soon as he tried to rise to his paws, 
Hawkwing felt a sharp pain shooting up one of his hind 
legs; gasping, he almost fell down again. 

“You’ve sprained it,” Echosong told him, giving the 
injured leg a good sniff. “Fidgetpaw, go dip some moss 
in the stream to wrap around it. I wish I had my herb 
stores with me,” she continued. “I can’t do much 
without them.” She looked up at Leafstar, who had 
stood by to watch without commenting. “We’d better 
stay here for a few days,” she mewed. 

Leafstar nodded agreement. “Accidents happen,” 
she murmured. “StarClan grant you’re better soon, 
Hawkwing.” 

Even though his leader was understanding, 
Hawkwing felt hot with embarrassment, and furious 
with himself. That was stupid, and now I’m holding 
my Clan back. Maybe they'd be better off if ld 
stayed in the barn with Cherrytail. 


Hawkwing let himself down into a nest of moss 


and dead leaves among the roots of an oak tree, 
wincing as pain clawed again at his injured leg. 

“Thanks, Curlypaw,” he meowed to his apprentice, 
who had collected the bedding. “Go and get some rest 
now.” 

Curlypaw ducked her head and scampered off to 
where Fidgetpaw was making another nest beneath 
arching fronds of fern. Twilight had fallen and all the 
SkyClan cats were settling down for the night in the 
sheltered hollow that had become their temporary 
camp. Hawkwing still felt guilty about keeping his 
Clanmates there when they should have been well on 
their way to finding ThunderClan. 

He was shifting in an attempt to find a comfortable 
position when Pebbleshine’s pale pelt appeared in the 
gathering darkness and she slid into the nest beside 
him. Hawkwing drew m a breath, drinking in her scent, 
and relaxed a little at the warmth of her fur. 

“Are you okay?” Pebbleshine asked him. 

“Oh, sure,” Hawkwing grunted. “I’ve sprained my 
leg, I lost my prey, and now the Clan is stuck here 
because of me. Other than that, I’m fine.” 

“Hey, that’s enough of that!” Pebbleshine swept 


her tail around to flick Hawkwing on the nose. “You’re 
as grouchy as a fox in a fit!” 

Instantly Hawkwing regretted snapping at 
Pebbleshine. “I’m sorry,” he meowed. “It’s my own 
stupid fault, and it’s not fair to take it out on you.” 

His gaze met Pebbleshine’s, and he saw her eyes 
soften into warm affection. “I’ve something to tell 
you,” she murmured. “Just to prove that things aren’t 
all bad.” 

“Well, what is it?” Hawkwing asked when 
Pebbleshine said no more. “Has Echosong had another 
vision?” 

Pebbleshine shook her head. “No, nothing like 
that.” She hesitated for another heartbeat, then added, 
“I'm expecting kits.” 

Delight and terror thrilled through Hawkwing from 
ears to tail-tip. At the same time he realized how 
selfish he was being, preoccupied with himself even 
though Pebbleshine had been looking more tired than 
usual for the last few days. 

And I never even asked her why! he scolded 
himself. Well, that stops now! From now on, I’m 


going to put my family first. 


“So that’s what you were being so secretive about 
the other day!” he meowed. 

Pebbleshine nodded. “I wasn’t certain then, but I 
am now. Are you pleased?” 

“Pleased?” Hawkwing could hardly find words. 
“Tm... Oh, Pebbleshine, this is wonderful!” 

Pebbleshine leaned closer to him, rhythmic purrs 
coming from deep within her chest. Hawkwing rasped 
his tongue gently over her ears. 

This is truly a new start for me, he thought. Back 
in the gorge, I failed Duskpaw and my father, but I 
will never again fail my kin. 

“Tm going to be the best father I can be to these 
kits,” he vowed. 

“You won’t be raising them all by yourself, you 
know!” Pebbleshine responded with a small mrrow of 
laughter. 

“I know. And you're going to be a wonderful 
mother.” 

Hawkwing rested his chin on his mate’s back, 
resolving that he would protect her to the last drop of 
his blood. He would take care of her, and their kits, and 
the whole Clan. 


I know now we made the right decision to leave 
the gorge, he reflected. Our kits wont be born with 
the sounds of battle ringing in their ears and the 
reek of blood in their noses. These kits will live in a 
new territory, surrounded by other Clans, and 
supported by them. They will be safe. Maybe, 
hopefully, they will never know danger. 

Oh, StarClan, it will make all our struggles 
worth it! 





CHAPTER 25 
+ 


Hawkwing limped along at the rear of his Clan. His 
leg ached terribly, but he forced himself to keep gomg. 
Almost a moon had passed since he had injured 
himself falling from the tree, and his leg was mostly 
better, but they had been walking since dawn, and now 
it was past sunhigh. 

Leafstar would call for a rest break if I asked 
her to, Hawkwing thought. But I can keep going for 
now. If Plumwillow can do it... He was ready to 
suffer through his pain if it would get them to their new 
home faster. J hope we find it before Plumwillow 
kits, or failing that, before Pebbleshine does. 

Plumwillow’s belly was huge now; she was close 
to the time of her kitting, but she kept up with her 
Clanmates and never complained. Pebbleshine often 
walked beside her, encouraging her, and Curlypaw did 
her best to make sure that both she-cats had prey. 
Hawkwing was prouder of his apprentice with every 
day that passed: her energy, her commitment to her 
Clan, and the way she made sure every cat was fed 


before she took fresh-kill for herself. 

But fresh-kill was hard to come by on their 
journey. Every cat was tired, sore-pawed, and thinner 
than they had been when they lived in the gorge. Life 
had become an endless round of sleeping, traveling, 
and hunting. 

Though Leafstar still took the lead, encouraging 
her Clan onward, she looked wearier with very day 
that passed, and Hawkwing sometimes detected doubt 
in her eyes. Surely our leader cant be losing her 
faith that StarClan will guide us? 

On the worst days, Hawkwing struggled to keep 
his own hope alive that soon they would find 
ThunderClan, and sensed that his Clanmates were 
struggling too. StarClan hadn’t sent Echosong any 
more visions, so there was nothing to do but trek 
onward and trust that they were heading in the right 
direction. But when each nightfall found SkyClan still 
wandering in the wilderness, it became harder to hold 
on to that trust. 

Sometimes, at night, Hawkwing had heard 
Leafstar and Waspwhisker talking together in low, 
anxious tones. A hollowness opened up inside 


Hawkwing as he listened. Jf the Clan leader and the 
deputy dont know what to do, what hope is there 
for the rest of us? And why is StarClan putting us 
through all this? 

Stil, Hawkwing reflected, SkyClan had become 
even closer, more tightly bound together as they 
traveled, each cat depending on the others. Now he 
could see Macgyver letting a tired Clovertail lean 
against his shoulder as they walked, and everywhere 
cats were meowing quietly and peacefully to each 
other. 

Maybe thats why StarClan is letting our 
journey take so long, Hawkwing thought. So that we 
learn how much we need each other. 

Pebbleshine dropped back to pad alongside 
Hawkwing, brushing her tail along his pelt. Hawkwing 
blinked at her affectionately. 

“Tm so glad our kits will be born in this Clan,” he 
mewed. 

“So am I,” Pebbleshine purred. “There can’t be a 
better Clan anywhere.” 

Coming to the top of a rise, the cats looked out 
across a wide valley, with the dens of a small 


Twolegplace near the bottom. 

“We’ll take a break here,” Leafstar announced. 
“We need to be fed and rested before we tackle that 
Twolegplace down there.” 

She led the way a few fox-lengths down the slope 
to where a stretch of gorse and bramble gave shelter 
from the wind and some hope of prey. Plumwillow and 
Clovertail flopped down there with sighs of relief. 

“We’ll hunt for you,” Bellaleaf meowed, bounding 
up to the two she-cats with her brother Rileypool at 
her shoulder. 

“And PIl catch something for you!” Curlypaw 
promised Pebbleshine. 

The speckled she-cat flicked Curlypaw’s ear with 
the tip of her tail. “Thank you,” she responded. “But 
I’m not so big yet that I can’t hunt for myself. Come 
on, Hawkwing, let’s all go together.” 

“And me!” Blossomheart added. 

Waspwhisker joined them as well, and 
Hawkwing’s spirits lifted as he and his friends crept 
into the undergrowth, jaws parted to taste the air for 
prey. This is almost like a hunting patrol in the 
forest above the gorge! 


Venturing deeper into the bushes, Hawkwing and 
the others spread out in their search. Hawkwing 
picked up the strong scent of a rabbit and followed it 
along a narrow path between brambles. Finally he 
spotted the creature lolloping ahead of him, its white 
tail bobbing up and down. Hawkwing kept pace with it, 
two or three fox-lengths behind, until it halted, sniffing 
at something on the ground. 

Glancing back, Hawkwing saw that Blossomheart 
and Curlypaw were both within sight. He beckoned to 
them, signing to them for silence. “Circle around,” he 
whispered, gesturing with his tail. “Come at it from the 
other side, and I’ll drive it toward you.” 

Curlypaw nodded, her eyes gleaming with 
excitement, and slid through the undergrowth in one 
direction, while Blossomheart veered off in the other. 
While Hawkwing waited for them to get into position, 
he was painfully reminded of his last hunt with his 
father, when he and Sharpclaw had cooperated just 
like this. With an effort he pushed the memory away, 
forcing himself to concentrate on this rabbit, and his 
Clanmates’ need for fresh-kill. 

Finally Hawkwing spotted movement in the 


undergrowth on the other side of the rabbit, which told 
him Curlypaw and Blossomheart were ready. Letting 
out a fearsome yowl, Hawkwing pelted forward, 
heading for his prey. 

The rabbit sat erect, terror in its bulging eyes. Then 
it took off, but instead of making for Blossomheart and 
Curlypaw, it doubled back until Hawkwing thought it 
was going to run right onto his own claws. 

As Hawkwing reached for it, the rabbit veered 
aside, and Hawkwing spotted the entrance to a burrow 
among the roots of a nearby gorse bush. 

“No!” he screeched. 

He made a frantic pounce, landing awkwardly and 
jarring his injured leg so the pain jolted right up into his 
ribs. But he was too late. With a last flash of its white 
tail, the rabbit plunged into the hole and vanished. 

“Fox dung!” Hawkwing snarled, lashing his tail in 
frustration. 

This is what happens when we hunt in strange 
territory, he thought, clawing furiously at the ground. 
The prey knows the terrain, but we dont. 

Blossomheart and Curlypaw reappeared, both of 
them looking disappointed. 


“Never mind.” Blossomheart was clearly trying to 
sound cheerful. “We’ll find something else.” 

But no more prey showed itself as they made their 
way through the undergrowth, until they emerged onto 
the hillside again, where they came upon Waspwhisker 
and Pebbleshine. 

“I caught this shrew,” Pebbleshine mewed, giving 
her prey a disdamful prod. “But it’s a scrawny little 
thing. It’s hardly a mouthful.” 

“Better than nothing,’ Hawkwing responded, 
brushing his pelt against hers. “Bury it, and we’ll pick it 
up on the way back.” 

While Pebbleshine scraped earth over the shrew, 
Hawkwing glanced around, realizing that they had 
come out of the thicket much closer to the 
Twolegplace. Farther down the hill a line of bushes 
separated them from the first of the dens. 

“We might try down there,’ Waspwhisker 
suggested. 

Hawkwing wasn’t too keen on going so close to 
the Twolegplace, but he realized that there was a lot of 
sense in the Clan deputy’s suggestion. J probably 
scared off all the prey up here, screeching at that 


rabbit! 

Waspwhisker led the way down the slope to the 
bushes, but when they reached them there were too 
many competing scents: the acrid tang of monsters and 
a Thunderpath, traces of dogs and Twolegs, and more 
that Hawkwing couldn’t even identify. 

“This is hopeless,’ Blossomheart mewed. “Let’s 
go back.” 

Pebbleshine had slipped farther into the bushes, 
and now she glanced over her shoulder, her eyes 
gleaming. “Come look at this!” 

Hawkwing slid through the branches to her side, 
and saw a wide stretch of ground in front of him, 
covered with the same hard black surface as a 
Thunderpath. Several monsters crouched there, and at 
one side a Thunderpath led away. Beyond the 
monsters loomed the gray walls of a Twoleg den. 

“Its a kind of monster camp!” Pebbleshine 
whispered. 

Waspwhisker poked his head through the branches 
just behind them. “What are you playing at?” he 
demanded. “Get away from there.” 

“Is okay,” Pebbleshine responded. “All the 


monsters are asleep. And there’s a really interesting 
smell coming from that one.” 

She angled her ears toward a monster at the edge 
of the camp. It had a big platform jutting out of its 
back, with low sides, and something shiny resting inside 
It. 

Hawkwing drew air over his scent glands and 
realized what Pebbleshine meant. The smell coming 
from the monster was rich and appetizing. Jt smells 
like prey ... but how can it be, on the back of a 
monster? 

Waspwhisker had scented it, too. “Okay, let’s take 
a look,’ he meowed. “But keep watch for Twolegs. 
And if the monsters start to wake up, get out of here, 
fast.” 

He took the lead as the three cats ventured into the 
open. Blossomheart and Curlypaw followed a few 
paces behind them. Curlypaw’s eyes stretched wide, 
half excited and half afraid; Hawkwing realized that 
she had never been so close to monsters before. 

As he drew nearer, Hawkwing could hear clucking 
noises coming from the back of the monster. The shiny 
things he had seen from the bushes were some kind of 


weird nests. 

“There are birds in there!” he gasped. 

“And they're trapped,” Pebbleshine added. “They 
must be some kind of Twoleg prey.” 

“That's just what they are,” Waspwhisker told the 
younger cats. “They're called chickens. Some Twolegs 
near the gorge used to keep them.” 

“Are they good to eat?” Curlypaw asked. 

Waspwhisker swiped his tongue around his jaws. 
“Oh, yes,” he mewed. 

For a few heartbeats the cats stood still, starmg at 
the clucking, feathery mass of chickens. Hawkwing 
felt even hungrier as the succulent smell flowed over 
him. 

“You know,” Pebbleshine meowed, glancing warily 
around, “the monster is asleep, and there aren't any 
Twolegs around. Why don’t we—” 

“You're not suggesting we climb onto a monster’s 
back?” Blossomheart interrupted, half intrigued and 
half scared. 

“Why not?” Hawkwing asked, with an admiring 
glance at Pebbleshine. She s so brave! “We could get 
enough fresh-kill to feed the whole Clan.” 


Curlypaw gave an excited little bounce. “Just think 
of their faces when we get back!” 

“We could do it.” Hawkwing turned to the Clan 
deputy. “What do you think, Waspwhisker?” 

For a moment Waspwhisker still gazed thoughtfully 
at the monster. Then he nodded slowly. “Let's go for it. 
Hawkwing, you and Curlypaw keep watch. The rest of 
you, follow me.” 

“I can climb up, too,” Hawkwing mewed before 
any cat could move. 

“No, I can tell your leg is hurting,’ Waspwhisker 
responded. “You’re more use here on the ground.” 

“Then Pebbleshine should stay here, too,” 
Hawkwing meowed. 

“Yes, Pebbleshine, you have to be careful,” 
Blossomheart agreed, while Waspwhisker nodded. 

Pebbleshine twitched the tip of her tail. “I’m not 
big enough yet for it to make any difference,’ she 
protested. “I can still run just as fast as the rest of you. 
And it was my idea.” 

“Okay,” Waspwhisker sighed. “Let's just get on 
with it before we all die of starvation.” 

Hawkwing and Curlypaw watched anxiously as 


their three Clanmates clambered onto the back of the 
monster. The harsh sound of their claws scraping 
against the monster’s pelt made Hawkwing’s neck fur 
rise with the strangeness of it. The gentle cluckmg of 
the chickens rose to an alarmed squawking, but to 
Hawkwing’s relief the monster didn’t wake up. 

“It's amazing up here!” Pebbleshine yowled. 
“There are so many of these fat birds, and they’re all 
just trapped here. If we can work out how to open the 
nests, we can feed the whole Clan!” 

Hawkwing crouched on the ground beside his 
apprentice, his heart pounding as the moments slid 
past. Whats taking so long? he wondered, expecting 
at any moment to see his Clanmates’ heads pop back 
up. He tried to make sense of the sounds that were 
coming from the monster; the chickens’ squawks had 
risen to a terrified clamor, but he couldn’t hear the cats 
at all. 

Then Hawkwing heard another noise, coming from 
the Twoleg den beyond the monster camp. A moment 
later a Twoleg came into view, heading toward the 
monsters. 

“Don’t move!” Hawkwing called out. “A Twoleg!” 


“Maybe the Twoleg will go to one of the other 
monsters, and he won’t notice us,’ Curlypaw 
whispered. 

“Let’s hope so.” 

But Hawkwing realized his hope was in vain as the 
Twoleg strode purposefully toward the monster with 
the chickens. “He’s coming right toward us!” he 
yowled. “Get out of there now!” 

At first there was no response from the cats inside 
the monster. The Twoleg will wake it up, Hawkwing 
thought, agonized. Then they ll know we were trying 
to steal their prey! “Hurry!” he urged. 

Waspwhisker’s head popped up from behind the 
low barrier at the back of the monster, and 
Blossomheart appeared a heartbeat later. “Fox dung!” 
Waspwhisker exclaimed, looking furiously disappointed 
as he and Blossomheart scrambled over the barrier 
and leaped down to join Hawkwing and Curlypaw. 

“Where’s Pebbleshine?” Hawkwing asked as they 
landed beside him. 

‘Tm still here!” Pebbleshine replied from inside the 
monster, her words almost drowned out by louder 
squawking. “I’ve managed to open one of the nests. 


I’ve got a chicken!” 

“Then get down here, fast!” Hawkwing 
responded. 

His gaze was fixed on the Twoleg, who tramped 
across the hard surface of the monster camp, opened 
up the monster, and climbed into its belly. He didn’t 
seem to have noticed the cats crouching a few tail- 
lengths away from the monster’s round black paws. 

“Pebbleshine, now!” Waspwhisker screeched. 

“Pm coming!” Pebbleshine sounded frustrated. 
“But this stupid bird is fighting!” 

“Then let it go!” Hawkwing yowled. 

“But the Clan needs it!” Pebbleshine protested. 

More loud squawking followed, then Pebbleshine’s 
forepaws appeared on the side of the monster. 
Hawkwing could see her face. At the same moment 
the monster woke up with a deep-throated growl. 

“Jump! Pebbleshine, jump!” Blossomheart shrieked 
as she and Waspwhisker backed away. 

Hawkwing shoved Curlypaw after them, then ran 
toward the monster. But just then the monster lurched 
into motion. Shock jolted through Hawkwing as its 
huge black paws rolled backward, threatening to crush 


him. The others scattered. Trembling, Hawkwing stood 
his ground. 

I wont run away while Pebbleshine is in 
danger! 

When the monster was a tail-length away from 
Hawkwing, it halted. He crouched, ready to leap up 
beside Pebbleshine. With a louder roar and the belch of 
a stinking cloud from its hindquarters, the monster 
began to move forward, heading for the Thunderpath. 

Hawkwing was too late. 

“Pebbleshine!” he screeched. 

He pushed off in an enormous leap, but he fell 
short, landing with a thump on the hard ground. His last 
sight of his mate was her scrabbling at the side of the 
monster, only for the big brute to stumble and lurch, 
making Pebbleshine lose her grip and fall back down. 
She stared, wide-eyed, at Hawkwing, her mouth 
moving as if she was yowling something to him. 

But Hawkwing couldn’t hear it over the roar of the 
monster. 

Putting out every scrap of his strength, Hawkwing 
hurled himself foward in pursuit, but as the monster 
sped up he realized it was hopeless. The gap between 


him and Pebbleshine grew wider and wider, and the 
monster roared down the Thunderpath until it 
disappeared into the distance. 





CHAPTER 26 
+ 


Hawkwing lay on the cold ground in the shelter of a 
gorse bush. Three sunrises had passed since the 
monster had carried Pebbleshine away, and the cats of 
SkyClan remained in their camp on the hillside above 
the Twolegplace, hoping that she would find her way 
back to them. 

But Hawkwing's hope was dwindling. He felt as 
though a heavy weight was crushing his ribs, pressing 
him into the earth. Hearing movement close by, he 
blinked his eyes open and saw his sister Blossomheart 
leaning over him. 

“Look, Hawkwing,” she mewed. “I brought you 
this shrew.” She patted the small creature toward him. 

Hawkwing gave the prey a perfunctory sniff, then 
closed his eyes again. His belly churned; he had no 
appetite at all. 

“Hawkwing!” Blossomheart pleaded. “You haven't 
eaten for days. You can’t go on like this. Please .. .” 

Hawkwing ignored her, and after a couple of 
heartbeats he heard her paw steps receding. He didn’t 


want to eat, or talk, or do anything except lie here and 
grieve for Pebbleshine. He hadn’t thought it possible to 
feel such pain and still go on living, as if a cat’s claws 
were snagged in his heart and he would never get free 
of them. 

The whole Clan was grieving too, ever since the 
terrible day when Hawkwing had limped back with the 
hunting patrol and told them how the monster had 
carried Pebbleshine away. 

But she ’ll find her way back, Hawkwing had at 
first told himself. /'m sure of it. Shes clever and 
brave... she’ll come back. Wont she? 

But it had always been a struggle for Hawkwing to 
convince himself of that, and as the days slipped by it 
became harder still. There were so many dangers out 
there for a cat on her own. Twolegs, dogs, monsters . . 


She has to come back, Hawkwing insisted to 
himself. Our kits have to be born. I have to be a 
father to them. 

Ever since Pebbleshine had told him her news, 
Hawkwing had pictured the kits in his mind, and 
thought about the things he would teach them. /’d 


show them the hunters crouch, and how to stay 
downwind of prey, and I'd tell them the noble 
history of their Clan. ... 

Hawkwing’s body contorted in a sudden spasm of 
rage. This is all Darktails fault! If the rogue tom 
hadn’t turned on the Clan that had taken him in, 
Hawkwing knew, none of this would have happened. 
Pebbleshine would still be safely in the gorge, waiting 
in the nursery for their kits to be born. And I was the 
cat who made friends with Darktail! The claw in his 
heart sank deeper still 7 spoke up for him, even 
against my own father... 

Sighing, Hawkwing pressed his face into the cold 
grass. He was too grief-stricken even to sustain his 
anger for more than a few heartbeats. 

A little while later Hawkwing heard cats 
approaching him again. 

“Hawkwmg.” It was his Clan leader’s voice. 

Hawkwing opened his eyes to see Leafstar and 
Echosong sitting beside him. Wearily he waited to find 
out what they wanted. 

“We’ve stayed here for several days,” Leafstar 
began, her voice gentle and compassionate. 


Hawkwing understood at once what his Clan 
leader was about to say. No! he yowled inwardly, 
digging his claws into the ground. J wont leave until 
Pebbleshine comes back! 

“If Pebbleshine had been able to escape from the 
monster anywhere nearby,” Leafstar continued, “she 
would have come back to us by now. It’s time for us to 
move on.” 

“No!” Hawkwing protested aloud this time, half 
sitting up. “We can't leave her. I won t leave her!” 

“This is my decision.” The Clan leader’s tone was 
firm, though sympathy glowed in her amber eyes. 
“We’re too exposed here, too near Twolegs, and the 
hunting is poor. We can’t stay any longer.” 

“Pebbleshine is strong and smart,’ Echosong 
added. “She knows which direction we’re headed, and 
what we’re looking for. She’ ll try to find us.” 

Hawkwing knew that the medicine cat was right, 
but that didn’t ease the hard knot of grief in his belly, or 
shake his conviction that he needed to stay near the 
place he had last seen his mate. 

“I don’t believe this is the end of Pebbleshine’s 
story,” Echosong continued. “You won't lose her 


forever.” 

Hope struck through Hawkwing like the sun 
shining through storm clouds. “Have you had a 
vision?” he asked eagerly. 

The medicine cat shook her head, and Hawkwing 
sank back, crushed. 

“No, StarClan hasn’t told me anything,” Echosong 
mewed sadly. “It’s just what I believe.” 

A few tail-lengths away, the other cats were rising 
to their paws, casting doubtful glances at Hawkwing. 
Curlypaw padded nervously up to him, carrying a 
mouse in her jaws. 

“T caught this for you myself,” she told Hawkwing, 
dropping her prey at his paws. 

“Thanks, Curlypaw.” Hawkwing pushed the mouse 
away. “But you should eat it. I won’t be traveling with 
you. I’m going to wait here for Pebbleshine, in case 
she comes back.” 

Leafstar fixed her amber gaze on Hawkwing, deep 
concern in her eyes. “Hawkwing, you have to come 
with us,” she meowed. “Please. SkyClan needs you.” 

“You don't,” Hawkwing argued. “I’m just one cat. 
When Pebbleshine comes back, we’ll both catch up to 


33 


you. 

‘No, we need you now,” Echosong agreed with the 
Clan leader. “Do you remember how you and 
Pebbleshine drove off the raccoon when it attacked 
me and the kits after the gorge battle? And how you 
saved us when you killed Dodge in the Twolegplace. 
What would we have done without you then?” 

Leafstar nodded. “You’ve always been so loyal 
and strong—both of you.” 

Curlypaw ventured closer to Hawkwing, leaning 
into his shoulder so that he felt the warmth of her long- 
furred pelt. “You’re such a great mentor, Hawkwing,” 
she mewed. “I can’t imagine learning so much from 
any other cat. I need you.” 

Hawkwing dipped his head. My duty is to my 
Clan now. Wasn’t that what he’d decided when they 
left the gorge? And he could see that Leafstar had a 
point: The Clan did need him. Something inside 
Hawkwing wanted to give way, but he didn’t know 
how he could force his paws to carry him away from 
the last place he and Pebbleshine had been together. 

“We don’t even know we’re heading in the right 
direction,” he pointed out. “What if we’re not? What if 


I leave with you, and miss Pebbleshine, only to end up 
wandering for moons?” 

“Our faith is being tested,’ Echosong admitted with 
a sigh, “but we must believe StarClan wouldn’t lead us 
astray. There are so few of us now that our only 
chance of surviving is to stick together.” 

“Pebbleshine would want you to stay with us,” 
Leafstar pointed out. 

Hawkwing realized that his medicine cat and his 
Clan leader were right. Pebbleshine has always been 
loyal to SkyClan. She never even considered 
leaving it to stay on our old territory. She 
understood that the Clan is more important than 
one cat. Looking into Leafstar’s eyes, he saw that she 
truly believed his mate wasn’t coming back. At least, 
she wont be coming back here. 

He wondered if he could bear to give up hope. 
Realistically, he knew, it was unlikely—perhaps one 
chance in a whole field of chances. /s that tiny 
chance worth the cost to the Clan? 

No, he accepted at last. It isn t. 

Heaving a huge sigh, Hawkwing bent his head to 
sniff Curlypaw’s mouse. Although the very thought of 


food made him sick, he forced himself to eat. He knew 
that he would need his strength for the long journey 
that lay ahead. Leafstar, Echosong, and Curlypaw all 
nodded encouragingly. 

“You're making the right decision, Hawkwing,” 
Leafstar said solemnly. “I’m grateful. The whole Clan 
is grateful.” 

Maybe my Clanmates are right, he thought. We 
still need to find the spark that remains, and make 
our new lives with the rest of the Clans. 
Pebbleshine and our kits will find SkyClan again 
one day. We will all be together again in the new 
territory beside the water, the home that Echosong 
dreamed of. 

But as he swallowed the last of his prey and joined 
his Clanmates to set out again, Hawkwing still felt as if 
he was leaving Pebbleshine behind. What chance will 
she have of finding us now? he wondered. 

Padding along at the rear of the Clan, his head 
down, Hawkwing tried to shake off the thought. But it 
clung in his mind like a burr in his pelt. 

Will I ever see Pebbleshine again? 





CHAPTER 27 
+ 


“Do you want to lean on my shoulder?” Hawkwing 
asked Plumwillow. 

The SkyClan cats were still trying to go in the 
direction Barley had shown them, trudging up a long 
slope covered with tough moorland grass. The ridge 
ahead of them never seemed to get any closer. A wide 
blue sky arched above them, where one or two birds 
were circling, and a stiff breeze buffeted their fur. 

“Thanks, Hawkwing.” Plumwillow shifted a pace 
sideways so that she could lean against him. 

Her belly is absolutely enormous! Hawkwing 
thought. It won t be long before her kits are here. 

A pang of sadness clawed through him as he 
wondered whether Pebbleshine would get as big as 
this before the end. Wherever she was—and 
Hawkwing had to believe that she was alive, 
somewhere—their kits would still be growing inside 
her. 

A half moon had passed since Pebbleshine had 
been carried away by the monster with the chickens. 


Since then there had been no sign or scent of her, but 
Echosong had dreamed the same dream several times: 
a pleasant place near water where SkyClan would 
belong. 

“Have you seen Pebbleshine in your dreams?” 
Hawkwing had asked. 

The medicine cat had paused for a long time 
before replying. “No,” she mewed with a sad shake of 
her head. “But that doesn’t necessarily mean that she 
won’t find her way there.” 

Hawkwing was left to struggle with his grief. Even 
though he had decided to stay with his Clan, he still 
wondered what the future could possibly hold for him. 
Everything he did: hunting, seeking for safe places to 
rest, even his mentoring of Curlypaw, was completely 
meaningless now. Only Plumwillow, who had lost her 
mate, Sandynose, seemed to understand his pain. 

Now Plumwillow huffed out a gasping breath, and 
Hawkwing felt something move agamst his side. That 
must be the kits! he realized, shivering as wonder and 
a terrible sadness threatened to tear him apart. 

“T understand,” Plumwillow murmured. “It's really 
hard for me to go on without Sandynose, but I have to 


believe he’s out there somewhere—just like 
Pebbleshine. I have to believe that we and our kits will 
be reunited someday.” 

Hawkwing gazed deeply into the gray she-cat’s 
eyes, and saw that she really did understand what he 
felt. Maybe shes the only one who can. 

After what felt like a moon of toiling upward, the 
SkyClan cats reached the top of the hill. 

“Look at that!” Waspwhisker exclaimed. 

Hawkwing looked down to see a shallow valley in 
front of him. The ground was covered with grass and 
stretches of woodland, dotted with outcrops of rock. 
At the bottom lay a reed-fringed lake, its shimmering 
surface reflecting the blue of the sky. In the distance, 
on the far side of the lake, was a small cluster of 
Twoleg dens. 

“This must be it!” Tinycloud exclaimed. “Our new 
home!” 

Parsleyseed’s eyes were sparkling: It was the first 
time, Hawkwing realized, that he had looked happy 
since his sister disappeared. “This must be the place 
that Echosong dreamed about!” 

Anticipation stirred inside Hawkwing and his pads 


prickled with excitement. The valley looked just right 
for a Clan’s territory, with its grassy open spaces and 
wooded areas full of undergrowth for shelter and 
hunting grounds. 

But I dont see any other cats, Hawkwing 
thought. Where is ThunderClan? 

Glancing to the side, he spotted Echosong; she was 
gazing down into the valley with interest, but he didn’t 
think she looked convinced just yet that this was the 
place of her visions. 

Leafstar tilted her head toward Waspwhisker, 
gesturing him out of earshot of the other cats. For a 
few moments they conferred quietly together; then 
they both returned to join the other cats. 

“Okay, listen up,” he meowed. “This could be the 
place from Echosong’s visions, but we have to be 
cautious. We’re going to split into patrols to explore. 
Look out for places we might camp, and good places 
to hunt. And keep your eyes open for other cats.” 

“Yes,” Leafstar added. “For all we know, this is 
the territory of one of the other Clans. The last thing 
we want is to walk into another conflict.” 

“We'll meet up again beside the lake,” 


Waspwhisker finished. 

Waspwhisker led one patrol and Sparrowpelt 
another. Hawkwing was surprised when the deputy 
chose him to lead the third. Meanwhile Leafstar led 
the way to a nearby copse where Plumwillow and 
Clovertail could rest. Echosong and Fidgetpaw joined 
them, and the remaining warriors stayed with them, on 
guard. 

Hawkwing set out with Macgyver, Parsleyseed, 
Birdwing, and Curlypaw. Together they headed down 
into the valley, pausing to investigate clumps of trees, 
thickets of fern and bramble, and the crevices in rocks 
where prey might hide. 

“Can we hunt, Hawkwing?” Macgyver asked. 
“My jaws are watering, there’s so much prey-scent 
around!” 

“Sure,” Hawkwing replied. “We need to know that 
the Clan can feed itself here.” 

Macgyver’s eyes gleamed. “Then it would be 
pretty irresponsible not to hunt!” 

“Don’t get carried away,” Hawkwing warned his 
patrol while they padded toward a stretch of deeper 
woodland. “Remember this is strange territory, and we 


don’t know what might be lurking. Foxes . . . maybe 
badgers,” he finished with a shudder. “And if this is 
another Clan’s territory, we don’t want them to think 
we’re stealing their prey. Curlypaw, stay close to me.” 

Hawkwing looked around warily as he ventured 
into the woodland with his apprentice by his side. The 
trees were old and twisted here, many of them 
covered with ivy, and interspersed with banks of fern 
and bramble thickets. Sunlight filtered down through 
the foliage, dappling the ground with green-gold light. 

“It’s great here!” Curlypaw sighed. “I hope we 
can stay.” 

“Let's find out a bit more about the place first,” 
Hawkwing meowed. “What can you scent?” 

Curlypaw stood still, her jaws parted to drink in the 
air. Watching her, Hawkwing reflected that since he 
had lost Pebbleshine, his heart hadn’t been in 
Curlypaw’s training. Am I teaching her anything? he 
wondered. I’ve got to start making more of an 
effort. 

“Mouse,” Curlypaw murmured after a few 
heartbeats. “And squirrel. . . oh, and rabbit. And... I 
think there’s fox, Hawkwing, but I’m not sure.” She 


glanced around as if she expected to see the red-pelted 
creature slinking toward her with its fangs bared. 

“Very good,” Hawkwing told her with an approving 
nod. “You’re right, a fox has been through here, but 
two or three days ago. The scent is faint, so I don’t 
think it stayed long.” 

As he finished speaking he heard a yowl of 
triumph from farther into the woods, and Parsleyseed 
appeared, dragging the body of a plump rabbit. “Look 
what I caught!” he announced, obviously pleased with 
himself. “We can all share.” 

“Great catch!” Hawkwing praised him. 

Macgyver and Birdwing reappeared a moment 
later, Birdwing carrying a mouse, and the patrol settled 
down to eat. 

‘Tve got something to show you,” Macgyver 
mewed between mouthfuls. “Something good. But it 
can wait.” 

With the rabbit picked clean, Macgyver led the 
way farther into the trees, around a bramble thicket 
and up a steep bank to a flat shelf of rock. “Look 
down there,” he meowed, pointing with his tail. 

Hawkwing looked out over a deep hollow, the sides 


formed from rocks and the tangled roots of trees. Long 
grass and ferns covered the ground at the bottom. Just 
below Hawkwing’s paws a small spring bubbled out 
between two boulders and trickled out across the 
hollow in the direction of the lake. 

“What about that?” Macgyver asked proudly. 
“Isn't it a perfect place to camp?” 

Hawkwing nodded slowly. There were plenty of 
sheltered spots for dens, with room enough for every 
cat, and the steep sides would provide some protection. 
There was even a source of water. 

“Is a bit like the gorge,’ Curlypaw murmured. 
There was a hint of wistfulness in her voice, telling 
Hawkwing how homesick she must feel. 

“Let's go find Leafstar,” Hawkwing suggested. 
“We’ll get her to come and see it.” 

Heading out of the wood again, Hawkwing 
reflected that this could be the perfect place for 
SkyClan to settle, except for one thing. 

There were no other cats here. 

If this is where StarClan intends us to be, where 
are the other warrior Clans? 

Hawkwing tasted the air once more, wondering if 


somehow they could have missed picking up the traces 
of a large number of cats. This time he did smell cat, 
but only one, and there was something not quite right 
about the scent. 

Emerging from the undergrowth, Hawkwing 
spotted the cat: a plump dark tabby tom, sitting on a 
tree stump at the edge of the wood, grooming his long 
glossy pelt. Hawkwing didn’t need to see the collar 
around his neck to recognize a kittypet. 

I should have known, he thought. Is this 
territory so unfamiliar that I cant even tell when 
I’m smelling kittypet scent? 

“Greetings,” he meowed, approaching the kittypet 
and dipping his head politely. “Do you live around 
here?” 

The kittypet looked up, mildly surprised. “You’re 
the second group I’ve seen today,” he mewed. “There 
are plenty of you, aren’t there?” 

The second group? Hawkwing was briefly 
excited, until he realized that the kittypet must mean 
he’d seen one of the other patrols. Trying to keep 
irritation out of his voice, he repeated his question. 

“Oh, no, my nest is a long way away, with my 


housefolk,” the kittypet replied with a vague wave of 
his tail. “My name’s Max. Who are you?” 

“We are SkyClan,” Hawkwing replied proudly, 
introducing himself and the rest of his patrol. 

“You’re a scruffy-looking bunch, if you ask me,” 
Max commented, looking the patrol up and down, then 
licking one forepaw and drawing it over his ear. 

No cat did ask you, Hawkwing thought, beginning 
to feel annoyed. 

“You would look scruffy too if you'd had to fight 
for your life and then traveled for days and days 
looking for a new home,” Macgyver snapped. 

“Keep your fur on,’ Max responded, not at all 
offended. “I know all about traveling. I stay out away 
from my housefolk all the time.” He riffled his 
whiskers. “It drives them crazy. But I always get a 
really good meal when I come home,” he finished, 
swiping his tongue around his jaws. 

Macgyver flashed Hawkwing a glance, as if he 
was asking, Do we have to put up with this idiot? 

“We’re looking for more cats,’ Hawkwing began, 
determined to get as much information from Max as he 
could. 


“Aren’t there enough of you already?” 

The heat of anger roiled in Hawkwing’s belly, but 
he pushed it down. No, I will not claw his ears off. 
But oh, it's tempting... . 

“A specific group of cats,’ Birdwing explained 
patiently, as if she guessed that Hawkwing was close 
to losing his temper. “They're called ThunderClan. 
Their leader is—was, I suppose—a tom called Firestar, 
with a flame-colored pelt.” 

Max yawned. “Never heard of them. In fact, there 
aren’t many cats around here. And none living by the 
lake.” 

Hawkwing acknowledged his words with a brief 
nod. “Thank you for your help.” 

“Any time.” Max went back to his grooming. 

By now, Hawkwing could see that some of his 
Clanmates were gathering by the lake, and led his 
patrol to join them. They arrived at the same time as 
Leafstar and her group; the other patrols were already 
waiting. 

“What do you think?” Blossomheart asked, 
bounding up to Hawkwing as soon as he reached the 
rest of the Clan. “Isn't it great?” 


“It seems okay.” Hawkwing still had his 
reservations, especially now that he was sure there 
were no other Clans here. 

Leafstar called a Clan meeting, speaking from a 
rock at the water’s edge while her Clan sat around 
her. “This is the first place we’ve found where it 
seems possible to settle,” she began. “But we need to 
decide if it’s the right place. Let’s start by hearing from 
the patrols.” 

Waspwhisker, Sparrowpel, and Hawkwing all 
made their reports. 

“There’s good hunting here,” Waspwhisker 
meowed. “And we didn't spot many signs of 
predators. A fox here and there, maybe, but no trace 
of badgers.” 

“And there are plenty of places we might make 
our camp,” Sparrowpelt added. 

“We could do worse,” Waspwhisker summed up at 
last. “There doesn’t seem to be much danger, and the 
Twoleg nests are far enough away that the Twolegs 
won’t bother us.” 

“But there aren’t any other cats,’ Hawkwing 
objected. “If this is the place StarClan wanted us to 


find, then where is ThunderClan?” 

“Well, maybe they—” Waspwhisker began. 

He broke off as Echosong rose to her paws and 
came to stand beside the rock where Leafstar sat. 
“This is not the place where we're supposed to be,” 
she announced. 

Gasps of shock and protest came from the cats 
gathered around her. 

“You mean we have to do more traveling?” 
Rabbitleap asked. “My paws are worn away already!” 

“What's wrong with it here?” Firefern mewed. “T 
don’t want to go on.” 

“I cant go on,” Plumwillow added. “Not until my 
kits are born—and that won't be long now.” 

“Plumwillow has a point,” Sparrowpelt agreed with 
a nod to the gray she-cat. “We should stay here, at 
least until she gives birth and her kits are old enough to 
travel. We have to stop somewhere for that, and this is 
a good place, near water, with plenty of prey. 
Echosong, we need a home!” 

The medicine cat’s green eyes were full of 
distress, but she never wavered. “This is not the place 
StarClan showed me in my dreams,” she insisted. “If it 


was, ThunderClan and maybe the other Clans too 
would be here to greet us. Believe me, if we stay here, 
no good will come of it. It doesn’t feel right. I know 
Plumwillow would be better off having her kits while 
we're traveling.” 

Plumwillow gave a disdainful sniff. “You don’t 
have to carry them every paw step of the way,” she 
snapped, loud enough for Echosong to hear her. 

“And we’re all exhausted,’ Rabbitleap added, 
exchanging a doubtful look with Birdwing. “We’d have 
to have bees in our brains to leave a place as good as 
this.” 

Hawkwing felt his irritation rismg. Cant they see 
thats not the point? We're not just looking for a 
new home, we're trying to follow the will of 
StarClan. What about the prophecy? 

In the midst of more rebellious muttering from his 
Clanmates, he rose to his paws. “I agree with 
Echosong,” he meowed. “This place feels wrong. It’s 
good, but ThunderClan isn’t here, so it can’t be what 
we’ve been looking for.” 

“And what about my kits?” Plumwillow demanded. 

Hawkwing gave her a warm glance. “You're 


strong, Plumwillow. You'll take good care of them, 
whatever happens.” Turning back to the rest of the 
Clan, he added, “We’ve followed StarClan this far. 
How can we start ignoring them now?” 

And if we find the place where StarClan has 
been leading us, then maybe Pebbleshine and our 
kits will be there, too. They'll find us there, 
somehow. ... 

Every cat looked at Leafstar, who paused for a 
long moment before speaking. “Plumwillow, what do 
you think?” she asked. “You’re the cat with the most 
to lose right now if we make the wrong decision.” 

Plumwillow dipped her head. “I am tired,’ she 
confessed. “And I think this is a good place to have my 
kits.” 

Leafstar nodded, remaining silent for a moment 
more. “I think we should stay here, Echosong,” she 
mewed, “at least for a little while. Sparrowpelt and 
Plumwillow are right: This is a good place. I’m too 
tired and heartsick to go any further, and so are all of 
us. The entire Clan needs a rest.” 

“But that isn’t right!” Echosong protested. 
“StarClan—” 


“StarClan isn’t sending us any clear guidance,” 
Leafstar interrupted. “And we can’t keep chasing 
hunches, hoping that fortune will favor us. We have 
traveled so far, and we are weary—we must get some 
strength back, if we are to complete this quest.” 

Murmurs of relief and approval followed the Clan 
leader’s words. Hawkwing couldn't share his 
Clanmates’ feelings. He had hoped that when they 
reached the destination StarClan had in mind for them, 
he would be reunited with Pebbleshine—and now 
those hopes were dashed. 

This is wrong . . . she'll never find us here, 1 
know it. Oh, StarClan, I’m trying to trust you that 
our destiny is still in front of us, that we havent 
made a terrible choice that will see the end of 
SkyClan. 

But why must you test us this way? 





CHAPTER 28 
+ 


Hawkwing crouched beside Pebbleshine in the 
milky warmth of the nursery. He was so full of joy that 
he thought it must burst out of him like a stream in 
greenleaf overflowing its banks. 

His mate looked exhausted, but her eyes shone 
with love for the three new kits who lay snuggled 
against her belly, protected in the curve of her tail. 

“They’re so beautiful... ,” Hawkwing whispered. 

“The little gray tom looks just like you,” 
Pebbleshine murmured. 

Hawkwing gazed down wonderingly at the fluffy 
gray fur of his son. “And the speckled white she-cat is 
just like you,” he added. “And the speckled gray tom . 
. . well, he’s like you and me.” He touched his nose to 
the tiny kit’s head. “It’s like seeing the best of us both 
combined into one cat.” 

Pebbleshine let out a small mrrow of laughter. 

A shadow fell across the entrance to the nursery 
and Cherrytail padded in, a mouse dangling from her 
jaws. “I thought you could do with some fresh-kill,” 


she meowed, dropping her prey beside Pebbleshine. 

“And I brought some wet moss,” Cloudmist added, 
creeping softly in beside her mother, with 
Blossomheart just behind her. She blinked in wonder as 
she looked down at the kits. “They’re just perfect!” 

Hawkwing spotted more movement at the nursery 
entrance and looked up to see his father, Sharpclaw, 
poking his head inside. “Is everything okay?” he asked. 

“We’re all fine, thanks,” Hawkwing replied. 

“Let me know if you need anything,” Sharpclaw 
continued. “Hawkwing, you can take a day or two off 
from patrolling to be with Pebbleshine.” 

“Thanks,” Hawkwing meowed. 

“Just wait until their eyes open,” Sharpclaw gave a 
snort of amusement. “You'll have your paws full 
then!” More seriously, he added, “I know you'll be a 
good father, Hawkwing.” 

Their visitors withdrew, leaving Hawkwing to curl 
up beside Pebbleshine, matching his rhythmic purr to 
hers. This is perfect... , he thought drowsily. 

From somewhere outside the nursery, Hawkwing 
heard a harsh, repetitive sound. What can that be? he 
wondered, turning to look through the nursery 


entrance. Pebbleshine’s head was still bent over her 
kits. And why doesnt she hear it? 


SQUAAAAAAWWWWK! 

Hawkwing jolted awake to the sound of a raucous 
screech coming from outside the warriors’ den. 
Normally the sound would have alarmed him, but he 
was so furious at being awoken from such a happy 
dream that he charged recklessly out into the open, 
searching for the source of the noise. 

The screech came again from the direction of the 
lake. Hawkwing pounded through the trees until he 
reached the edge of the forest. In the pale light of 
dawn he spotted a brown-and-white bird swooping 
across the lake. A big, stupid water-bird. 

Hawkwing watched as the bird dived down, dipped 
its talons under the surface, then rose into the sky 
again, gripping a wriggling silver fish. 

A small part of Hawkwing’s mind was interested 
to watch a bird he had never seen before, but that was 
overwhelmed by the hatred he felt because it had 
broken into his dream. 

Hawkwing let out a deep sigh. Stupid bird. Stupid 
lake. Stupid life. I know this isn t the right place for 


us to stay. 

SkyClan had been living beside the lake for a 
quarter moon, making their camp in the hollow 
Macgyver had discovered on the first day. Every cat 
had been busy, arranging the dens, exploring their new 
territory, and collecting herb stores, but none of the 
activity had lightened Hawkwing’s grim mood. 

Now that he and his Clanmates were no longer 
traveling, he had time to confront the fact that he was 
still alive, even after losing his mate and everything 
they’d planned for their future. Misery engulfed him 
like a dark fog, and he had no idea how to find his way 
out of it. 

I have my whole life ahead of me—but what can 
the future possibly hold that would ever make up 
for what I’ve lost? 

Blossomheart appeared at Hawkwing’s side, 
looking still ruffled from sleep. “What on earth was 
that noise?” she asked with a yawn. 

Hawkwing only grunted in reply, waving his tail at 
the stupid bird. 

Blossomheart shrugged. “We never had to deal 
with that in the gorge,” she mewed. 


Her words stung Hawkwing like a thorn in his pad. 
He knew that his sister wasn’t scolding him, but he 
could never forget that in a way he was responsible 
for SkyClan being driven from the gorge. If I’d never 
trusted Darktail .. . Or what would have happened 
if I'd stayed and tried to take revenge? I might 
have done that if ld known that Pd lose 
Pebbleshine on this journey. 

Hawkwing dragged himself away from his dark 
thoughts to realize that Blossomheart was speaking to 
him. “I’m sorry . . . what?” 

His sister heaved a sigh. “I said, why don’t we 
take Bellaleaf and Curlypaw and go exploring on the 
other side of the lake? We haven’t hunted over there 
yet.” 

“Yes, good idea,” Hawkwing responded, making an 
effort to be more positive. He wanted to be a good 
mentor to Curlypaw, but he knew he hadn’t spent 
enough time with her since he lost Pebbleshine, and 
even less since they arrived at the lake. “PI check 
with Waspwhisker, and if he doesn’t want us for a 
dawn patrol, we’ll go.” 


There were fewer trees on the far side of the lake; 


the ground was covered with smooth grass that 
stretched as far as the row of small Twoleg dens. 

“I don’t like it as much over here,” Blossomheart 
mewed, with a wary look at the dens. “The Twolegs 
are too close for comfort, and there’s not as much 
cover. I’m glad we settled on the other side.” 

“Waspwhisker led a patrol over here yesterday,” 
Bellaleaf responded. “Rileypool went with him, and he 
told me all the Twoleg dens are abandoned. There’s 
not even the scent of Twolegs there.” 

“Weird... ,” Hawkwmg murmured. Why would 
Twolegs build dens here and then just go off and 
leave them? Then he shrugged. “It’s not as good for 
prey over here, either,’ he added. “There aren’t as 
many places for them to hide. Still, we can get in some 
practice. Come on, Curlypaw, let’s see your stalking. 
Pretend Bellaleaf is a mouse.” 

Bellaleaf crouched down in the grass. “Oh, I’m 
only a tiny little mouse,’ she mewed in a squeaky 
voice. “Please don’t eat me!” 

Curlypaw flattened herself against the ground and 
began to creep forward, one paw at a time. 

“Oh, no—no,” Hawkwing interrupted before she 


had gone many paw steps. “You’re putting your paws 
down far too hard.” 

His apprentice looked dejected, her head and tail 
drooping. “Sorry.” 

“You have to remember that a mouse will feel your 
paw steps through the ground before it hears you,” 
Hawkwing told her. He couldn’t remember whether he 
had actually told her that before. Its one of the first 
things an apprentice learns. . . . I’m not being a 
good mentor at all. Everythings gone wrong since 
Pebbleshine disappeared. 

“Try it again,” he told her. 

Curlypaw gave him a nervous glance before 
flattening herself to the ground again. Hawkwing took 
a deep breath. He knew his frustration was coming out 
in his tone. But its not you I’m frustrated with, 
Curlypaw, its me. 

This time, his apprentice’s stalking was perfect. 
She seemed to glide over the ground as if her paws 
were hardly touchng it. “That's much better,” 
Hawkwing meowed, trying to put some warmth into 
his voice. “Bellaleaf, you're doomed!” 

During the lesson, Blossomheart had been poking 


around among the reeds that fringed the lakeshore. 
Now she beckoned Hawkwing over with her tail. 

“There are voles here,” she murmured when her 
brother padded up to her. “Shall we take some fresh- 
kill back for the Clan?” 

Hawkwing peered into the reeds and spotted 
movement among the stems. “Good idea,” he 
responded, gesturing with his tail for Curlypaw and 
Bellaleaf to join them. 

Spotting a vole, Hawkwing began to creep up on it, 
remembering what he had told Curlypaw about setting 
her paws down lightly. His prey was_ nibbling 
something, seeming quite unaware of danger. 

Completely focused on the vole, Hawkwing was 
bunching his muscles for the final pounce when 
Curlypaw suddenly let out a loud caterwaul. The vole 
gave a start of terror, then scrambled to the water’s 
edge, jumped in, and swam away. 

Furious, Hawkwing swung around. “Curlypaw, 
what—?” 

He broke off as he heard the same raucous 
screech that had woken him from his dream. Looking 
up, he saw the brown water-bird above his head, diving 


straight down at Blossomheart. His belly lurched and 
his shoulder fur bristled at the sight of the creature’s 
powerful beak and claws. 

With a challenging yowl, Hawkwing raced over to 
his sister. As the bird swooped over her, Blossomheart 
reared up on her hind legs and managed to swipe her 
claws over its eye. The bird let out another screech, 
raking its talons over Blossomheart’s shoulder. 

Hawkwing leaped up and sank his claws into the 
bird’s shoulder, catching it off guard. As the huge head 
swung around toward him, glaring with a malignant 
yellow eye, Blossomheart got in a harder blow, digging 
her claws into the eye she had scratched. 

At the same moment Bellaleaf leaped up from the 
other side, only to be swatted away by a flap of the 
bird’s wing. She hit the ground with a thump and lay 
there half stunned. 

Screaming again, the bird began fighting valiantly 
to free itself from Hawkwmg and Blossomheart, 
flailing with wings and claws and stabbing with its 
hooked beak. As they fell back, it rose unsteadily into 
the air and circled around a few tail-lengths above the 
ground. 


At first Hawkwing thought that they had scared it 
off. Then with belly-churning dread he realized that it 
was swooping in for another attack, and this time its 
target was Curlypaw. 

“No!” Hawkwing yowled. 

He lunged toward Curlypaw, reaching her just as 
the bird gripped her with its talons and began flapping 
its wings to take off again. “Help!” she wailed, digging 
in her claws in an effort to cling to the ground. 
“Hawkwing, help me!” 

Using all his strength, Hawkwing hurled himself 
upward and managed to snag his claws on the bird’s 
leg. The extra weight unbalanced it, so that it flopped 
back to the ground, and Hawkwing was able to sink his 
teeth into its back. 

With another screech the bird loosened its grip on 
Curlypaw, who twisted around and slashed her claws 
at its underbelly, even though the bird still had her hind 
legs pinned. Blossomheart came charging up, blood 
from her wound spattering the grass, but before she 
reached them Hawkwing dug his teeth deeper into the 
bird’s back and wrenched his head around, tearing out 
a chunk of the bird’s flesh. 


Shrieking furiously, the bird let go of Curlypaw and 
awkwardly flapped its way back into the air. Blood 
dripped from its wound onto the grass as it flew slowly 
away. 

Hawkwing turned to his sister. “Blossomheart, are 
you okay?” 

Blossomheart twisted her head to get a good look 
at the wound on her shoulder. “I’ve been better,’ she 
panted. “But Pll be fine. Hawkwing, that was 
amazing! You really lived up to your name.” 

Glancing around to check on his Clanmates, 
Hawkwing saw Bellaleaf stagger to her paws and pad 
shakily over to jom the others. 

“Are you hurt?” Hawkwing asked. 

Bellaleaf gave her head a shake as if to clear it. 
“No, I’m okay. Just a bit stunned. That bird was really 
strong!” 

Reassured, Hawkwing turned to Curlypaw and 
gave her scratches a good sniff. He was thankful that 
they all seemed to be shallow, hardly bleeding at all. 
But the apprentice was still shivermg, her eyes wide 
with the memory of fear. 

“Hawkwmg, you saved my life!” she exclaimed, 


her voice shaking. “Just like you did in the 
Twolegplace. If you hadn’t been here . . .” Her eyes 
grew dark, as if she could see herself being carried 
away in the grip of the enormous bird. 

Feeling her terror as if it was his own, Hawkwing 
bent his head and began to lick Curlypaw’s wounds. 
“Don't think about it anymore,” he mewed between 
strokes of his tongue. “You were very brave, and 
you’re safe. That’s what matters. You’ve got your 
whole life ahead of you.” 

Curlypaw nodded and gave her pelt a shake. “T’ll 


SS 


try. 

As he comforted his apprentice, Hawkwing 
remembered the kits in his dream—his kits. They ll 
have meaningful lives, too, he thought, even if 1 
never get to see them. I wouldnt want them to give 
up because they dont have a father. 

“And now we’d better go home and get Echosong 
to check us out,” Bellaleaf meowed. 

The cats skirted the edge of the lake as they made 
their way back to their new camp. Hawkwing kept a 
watchful eye on the sky, in case the fierce bird 
returned. 


“Hawkwing, that was good advice you gave 
Curlypaw,” Blossomheart murmured. “I’ve noticed 
you’ve not been yourself lately. Of course, you have 
good reasons, but you can’t live your whole life like 
that. You have to believe what you told Curlypaw, too. 
You’ve got your whole life ahead of you, you know?” 

For a moment Hawkwing considered how he 
should respond. J wouldnt want my kits to give up, 
so maybe I shouldnt, either. “I’m trying to believe,” 
he replied at last, even though it was a struggle to get 
the words out. 

Blossomheart touched her nose to his. “All of 
SkyClan needs to believe that we have a future. If this 
isn’t the right lake, then we have to believe we will 
find the right one, where the other Clans live. If we 
don’t find it soon, surely StarClan will send us a sign. . 

Hawkwing dipped his head, almost overcome. “T 
hope so,” he managed to mew. 

He watched Bellaleaf and Curlypaw padding 
ahead of him; now that the danger was over, they 
were excitedly discussing the encounter with the 
water-bird. They're so young and brave! Hawkwing 


knew that they were the future of SkyClan—the 
SkyClan that must live on, for seasons beyond 
counting, and prosper. 

Blossomheart is right. 





CHAPTER 29 
+ 


The sun was going down, casting red light over the 
forest. Shadows were already gathering in the camp, 
but there was still a sunny spot near the fresh-kill pile, 
where Hawkwing and several of his Clanmates were 
eating. 

“We've been here a moon now,” Waspwhisker 
remarked, pausing as he devoured his vole. “It’s 
starting to feel like home.” 

Hawkwing murmured agreement. He watched 
Curlypaw and Fidgetpaw playing with Rileypool at the 
other side of the camp. Rileypool was pretending to be 
a badger, and the air was filled with the apprentices’ 
joyful squeals of terror. 

As newleaf melted into greenleaf, the weather had 
grown warmer and the land around the lake had 
become lush and green. Somehow Hawkwing felt that 
his cold grief was melting, too. He still missed 
Pebbleshine desperately, and feared for her and their 
kits, but he was able to look forward to a better time. 

Someday I'll find them all again. 


Curlypaw was also doing much better. She had 
begun to thrive once he started really paying attention 
to her again, trusting that he could be a good mentor to 
her instead of always questioning himself. 

Shes finally living up to her potential. She just 
needed patience and understanding. She's going to 
be an incredible warrior! 

A few heartbeats later the peace of the camp was 
shattered by raised voices coming from the medicine 
cats’ den. As Hawkwing turned toward it in surprise, 
Leafstar stormed into the open, followed by Echosong. 

“It’s not just a hunch!” the medicine cat protested. 
“It’s a message from StarClan.” 

Leafstar whipped around to face her. “You just told 
me you had no vision,” she retorted furiously. “This is 
just a ‘feeling’ you have.” 

Hawkwing exchanged a glance with Waspwhisker. 
It was almost unheard of for the Clan leader and their 
medicine cat to have a serious disagreement, and just 
as unusual for Leafstar to show so much anger. 
Something is really wrong here. 

“But the feeling is so strong,” Echosong meowed, 
“that I believe that StarClan is telling me something. 


There’s no other explanation! I’ve known this since we 
arrived here. We can’t stay here!” 

Hawkwing pricked his ears. Echosong was putting 
into words the feeling he himself had experienced ever 
since SkyClan had made camp here. Something is 
simply wrong with this place. 

He had made the best of it, trying to concentrate 
on teaching Curlypaw and doing everything he could 
for his Clan. He had made a huge effort to rein in his 
runaway temper and behave sensibly for once. And 
now he had to push down his instinct to jom in the 
argument and agree with the medicine cat. 

But what does Echosong think we should do? 

“Remember how long it took us to find this 
place?” Leafstar continued, clearly making an effort to 
speak more calmly. “And how hard it was, traipsing 
through strange territory with no home. A Clan needs 
a home to be truly strong!” 

“Yes, I know that,” Echosong responded with a 
sigh. “But this isn + meant to be our home! You can’t 
deny that we haven't found the other Clans here.” 

Leafstar grunted a reluctant agreement. “There’s 
no sign that any other cats have ever lived here.” 


“Then wouldn’t we be stronger if we were 
surrounded by equally strong Clans?” Echosong asked. 

Leafstar paced to and fro, the tip of her tail 
twitching, before she replied. “I’ve heard your 
argument,” she meowed at last, “but I am not 
convinced that we should uproot yet again. We’re 
surviving here—and we should remember, SkyClan 
has survived on its own for many seasons, with no help 
from other Clans. If StarClan wants us to move on,” 
she added after a heartbeat’s pause, “then they need to 
send us more guidance. We can’t go on chasing ‘the 
spark that remains’ forever—not when we don’t know 
where we’re supposed to go.” 

“But that's not how StarClan works,” Echosong 
protested. “You know that as well as I do, Leafstar.” 

“But that’s what SkyClan needs, after all we’ve 
been through.” 

“I understand.” Hawkwing thought Echosong 
sounded desperately unhappy to be in conflict with her 
Clan leader. “But you have to understand too. I have 
deep concerns about this place. It doesn’t feel right.” 

Leafstar’s shoulders drooped in exhaustion. “T hear 
you, Echosong. But I am not convinced that leaving is 


the right decision for SkyClan.” 

“I will respect your leadership, Leafstar,’ the 
medicine cat mewed, dipping her head resignedly. “But 
I feel we are gomg against the advice of StarClan. 
And as long as we do that, we’re at risk.” 

Hawkwing watched as the Clan leader and the 
medicine cat separated, stalking off in opposite 
directions. He was deeply disturbed by what he had 
overheard. Whether we stay here or not, he thought, 
it cant be good for Leafstar and Echosong to 
disagree so wildly. Clan cats need certainty from 
their leader and their medicine cat. 

Not having that certainty made Hawkwing feel as 
if icy claws were raking through his pelt. 


A painful yowl broke into Hawkwing’s dream of 
the big bird attacking his Clanmates. At first he thought 
the noise was part of the dream, but then he realized it 
was coming from outside the den. Picking his way 
around his Clanmates, who were beginning to stir, 
Hawkwing blundered into the open. 

The morning was damp and misty, but the sun was 
already breaking through the foliage above the camp, 
and every drop of dew glittered with light. At first 


everything seemed peaceful; then the yowling came 
again and Hawkwing spotted Curlypaw standing 
outside the entrance to the nursery, her eyes wide with 
distress. 

“What's happening?” Hawkwing asked, bounding 
over to her. 

“It's Plumwillow,” Curlypaw replied. “Her kits are 
coming, but something is going wrong!” 

For a moment Hawkwing felt as though his fur 
was tightening around his flanks. He could barely 
breathe, imagining all too clearly what Plumwillow 
must be suffering, to go through her kitting without a 
mate. A pang of renewed pain passed through him as 
he wondered whether Pebbleshine would have any cat 
to help her when the time came for their kits to be 
born. 

Its not really my place to help Plumwillow, he 
thought, but I can t let her face it alone. 

Slipping into the nursery, he found Echosong there 
with Fidgetpaw, both of them bending over the 
motionless body of Plumwillow. The tense argument 
with Leafstar the day before might as well never have 
happened; Echosong was back to normal again, the 


calm, efficient medicine cat. 

“What’s the matter?” Hawkwing asked. 

“The first kit is coming out feetfirst,” Echosong 
replied with a brief glance over her shoulder. 
“Plumwillow can make it through if she has the energy 
for it, but she’s weak. Plumwillow, you’ve got to try.” 

“I can’t,’ Plumwillow murmured. Her eyes were 
glazed and her voice was blurred, as if she had 
withdrawn far into herself. 

Hawkwing’s instincts told him what was wrong. 
“Plumwillow,” he mewed, moving to stand beside the 
gray she-cat’s head, “I know you can do this.” 

Plumwillow looked up at him, startled and almost 
hostile. “What are you doing in here?” she asked. “You 
have no—” 

“I'm the perfect cat to help you through this,” 
Hawkwing interrupted, resting his tailtip on 
Plumwillow’s shoulder. “I know what it feels like to 
lose your mate. How it feels like there’s no reason to 
goon...” 

Slowly Plumwillow nodded. “All this time, I’ve 
been going on for the sake of the kits. But if there’s 
something wrong with them, there is no reason.” 


“You're wrong!” Hawkwing tried to put all the 
strength into his voice that he wanted to give to 
Plumwillow. “You have a big reason coming. 
Sandynose’s lovely kits! They can still be born healthy 
if you stay strong. And every time you look at them, 
you'll see the best of both you and your mate.” 

Hawkwing had to struggle to keep his voice steady 
on the last few words, remembering the kits from his 
dream. /’/] never see my own kits, never sit with 
Pebbleshine while she gives birth. 

“You look so sad,” Plumwillow whispered. 

“That's why you have to pull it together,” 
Hawkwing told her. “You have to be strong, because 
you’re lucky enough to have something I will never 
have.” 

Understanding began to dawn in Plumwillow’s 
eyes. “Why do you care about what happens to me?” 
she asked. 

“Because I know what it feels like to be alone.” 
Trapped in a dark cave, with no light and no way 
out. 

Plumwillow gritted her teeth and Hawkwing 
realized that another powerful pain was rippling 


through her belly. This time she didn’t cry out, but 
flexed her muscles to push her kits into the world. 

“Yes!” Echosong meowed. “That's right—it's 
coming!” 

Within heartbeats, as Hawkwing watched in 
wonder, a tiny gray kit slid out onto the mossy bedding 
of the nursery. Its pelt was wet, plastered to its body, 
and Echosong nudged it toward Plumwillow, who 
began licking it vigorously. 

“A little tom—and very strong and healthy,” 
Echosong meowed. 

Plumwillow’s belly spasmed again, and almost 
before Hawkwing realized it, a second and then a third 
kit were born: another tom, light brown with ginger 
legs, just like his father, Sandynose, and a pale tabby 
she-kit. 

Plumwillow couldn’t stop purring as she nuzzled 
and licked them, and guided them toward her belly so 
that they could suckle. “They're so beautiful!” she 
whispered, her eyes shining with joy. 

Hawkwing gazed down at the happy family, an 
ache in his heart so deep that he almost cried out with 
the pain of it. /’m not really part of this. . . . “Yow re 


okay now, so PI just go... ,” he began. 

Plumwillow raised her head to look at him. “No, 
don’t,” she mewed. “I could never have managed this 
without you. Losing Sandynose still feels so raw, and I 
could never take another mate, but I’ll need help with 
these kits—if I’m not presuming too much, would you 
want to help me?” 

Gazing down at the kits, Hawkwing felt the empty 
places in his heart begin to fill again. They’re not 
mine, and they never will be, he thought, but they ’re 
so tiny, so perfect. ... 

“Of course PI help you, Plumwillow,” he 
promised. 


Hawkwing padded into the camp with a rabbit 
dangling from his jaws. At once excited squealing 
came from the nursery and Plumwillow’s three kits 
came tumbling out, tripping over each other in their 
eagerness to greet him first. 

“Uh-oh!” Firefern mewed around her vole as she 
followed Hawkwing into camp, her eyes glinting with 
amusement. “Tt looks like you’re wanted.” 

The three kits were a moon old now, and already 
developing into healthy, energetic cats. Dewkit, the 


sturdy gray tom; Finkit, who looked exactly like his 
father, with the same brown pelt and ginger legs, and 
Reedkit, the little tabby she-kit. Hawkwing loved them 
all, and loved every moment that he spent with them. 

Firefern carried her prey to the fresh-kill pile, along 
with Harrybrook and Birdwing, the other members of 
the patrol. Hawkwing glanced sharply around until his 
gaze fell on his apprentice, Curlypaw, who was 
grooming herself outside her den. 

“Curlypaw!” he called, beckoning with his tail. 

His apprentice sprang up and padded over to him, 
stumbling over Finkit, who was bouncing around 
Hawkwing, along with his littermates. “Yes, 
Hawkwing?” she mewed. 

“Don't “yes, Hawkwing' me,” he snapped. “Where 
were you this morning? I wanted to take you for battle 
practice, and you were nowhere to be found.” 

Curlypaw blinked innocently. “Oh, sorry, 
Hawkwing,” she responded. “I was awake early, so I 
thought I’d go hunting on my own for a while. I caught 
two mice,” she finished proudly. 

“That's all very well, but—” Hawkwing began, 
then broke off as all three kits jumped on him, digging 


their tiny claws into his pelt. “Okay, Curlypaw,” he 
meowed, struggling to make himself heard over the 
joyful squealing of the kits. “Just ask first, next time. 
And take this rabbit to the fresh-kill pile.” 

As Curlypaw snatched up the prey and carried it 
off, Hawkwing flopped over on his side with the three 
kits swarming all over him. “Dewkit, take your paw out 
of my ear,” he protested. “And Finkit, that's my tail 
you’ re biting!” 

“You’re a rabbit, and we’re hunting you,” Reedkit 
informed him. 

“Oh, no!” Hawkwing let out a pretend wail of 
terror. “You’re such good hunters! I can’t escape!” 

As the kits pummeled him with their soft paws, 
Hawkwing glanced across at the nursery to see 
Plumwillow sitting outside, watching their game with a 
happy expression. He rose to his paws and staggered 
across to her, with the kits still hanging on to him. 

“Youve got your paws full there,” Plumwillow 
observed with a small mrrow of laughter. 

“I certainly have!” Hawkwing agreed. “But they 


33 


He broke off at the distant sound: the bark of a 


Twoleg monster. His contented mood faded and he let 
out a huff of annoyance. “Twolegs again!” 

Through the long days of greenleaf the sun had 
shone brightly. Prey had been running well, and every 
cat was well fed. 

There's only been one problem with the warm 
weather: Twolegs! 

Every cat had thought it was odd that the Twolegs 
had made nests beside the lake and then left them 
behind. But as soon as the days got warmer, they had 
come back. The lake, which should have been 
peaceful under the brilliant blue sky, was suddenly 
surrounded by Twolegs, playing and shouting and 
sometimes even throwing themselves into the water to 
splash about. 

All of them with monsters full of Twoleg-stuff, 
Hawkwing thought irritably. And they run around as 
if they own the place! 

“T wish they’d all just go away,” he complained. 

“Some of them even bring dogs,’ Plumwillow 
responded. With an anxious glance at the kits, she 
added, “They come far too close to our camp for my 
liking.” 


“But the dogs look pretty stupid.” Hawkwing tried 
to reassure her. “They mostly lie around on the grass 
and chase sticks the Twolegs throw.” 

“Maybe . . .” Plumwillow still looked uneasy. “But 
do you know what I saw the other day? A Twoleg got 
into a water monster! It tore around the lake, churning 
up the water and scaring the ducks! What next, that’s 
what I want to know.” 

Hawkwing had no idea. He only knew that the 
territory seemed to get noisier every day, and it felt 
more dangerous. He hadn’t told Plumwillow, because 
he didn’t want to upset her, but sometimes when he 
and Curlypaw had been out hunting, Twolegs had 
spotted them and tried to coax them closer. But he and 
his apprentice knew the tricks Twolegs liked to play; 
they had always managed to run off before the 
Twolegs could grab them. 

Why do Twolegs always think you want to go to 
them, anyway? Like they’re so fascinating! 

The roar of another monster filled the air, growing 
rapidly louder and then stopping abruptly. Leafstar, 
who was chatting with Firefern a couple of tail-lengths 
away, glanced up and caught Hawkwing’s gaze. 


“Tt sounds like we have more Twoleg company,” 
Hawkwing remarked. 

Leafstar let out an exasperated noise. “We just 
need to keep our distance,” she mewed. 

Thats been Leafstar 5 solution ever since the 
Twolegs appeared, Hawkwing thought. But is that 
even possible? There are so many of them now, 
swarming all over. 

As the sun sank lower in the sky, the cats of 
SkyClan gathered around the fresh-kill pile to eat. 
Hawkwing basked in the scarlet light, thinking of how 
much he loved greenleaf. The long days and nights, 
the beautiful sunsets . . . 

But then his thoughts flew back to Pebbleshine, 
and the pain of loss gripped his heart again as if 
powerful claws were sinking into it. The prey in his 
belly felt heavy as he remembered how Pebbleshine’s 
fur shone in sunlight. She must be close to kitting by 
now, he thought. Or maybe our kits are already 
born. 

To distract himself from these dark thoughts, he 
turned to Plumwillow’s kits. 

“Look, kits,’ he meowed, scratching up some moss 


from the floor of the camp and patting it into a ball. 
“Which of you can throw this moss-ball farthest?” 

“T can!” 

“Can not!” 

“Watch me!” 

As his gaze followed the three kits, scrambling and 
falling over each other’s paws, shredding the moss-ball 
in their eagerness, Hawkwing found the ache in his 
heart eased. 

Then a different sound reached Hawkwing’s ears, 
drowning the happy squeaking of the kits. Thats a 
dog barking—and another, and another! 

Hawkwing’s belly lurched in surprise as he realized 
how close the dogs were. They’re normally so lazy 
they stay by the lake, well away from our camp. He 
had only a moment, just enough time to glance across 
at Leafstar, before four dogs burst into the camp. Their 
huge paws slammed against the ground, their jaws 
drooling as they growled. Hawkwing gagged as their 
scent flooded over him. 

These weren’t like the dogs Hawkwing had seen 
with their Twolegs, lounging on the grass beside the 
Twoleg dens. One of those had been even smaller than 


a cat, wearing some weird kind of Twoleg pelt. All 
four of these dogs were big and fast, lean and long- 
legged with sleek brindled pelts. Their jaws gaped to 
show rows of huge, sharp teeth. Hawkwing almost 
thought they were some kind of wild creature, until he 
noticed their Twoleg collars. 

As the dogs spotted the group of cats their eyes 
rolled in excitement. Their barking grew even louder. 
Without taking the time to think, Hawkwing grabbed 
Dewkit by the scruff and shoved Reedkit onto his 
back. “Run!” he mumbled to Plumwillow through his 
mouthful of fur as he pushed Finkit toward her. 

Plumwillow grabbed Finkit but stumbled in her 
haste as she picked him up. One of the dogs spotted 
her and raced toward her. After one terrified glance 
Plumwillow whipped around and kept pace with 
Hawkwing as he scrambled up the steep slope at the 
far side of the camp and took off into the woods. 
Behind him he heard more barking, and the panic- 
stricken screeching of his Clanmates, but he had no 
time to look back. 

The dogs were on their trail. 





CHAPTER 30 
+ 


Hawkwing fled into the trees with Plumwillow at his 
side, racing along until his lungs burned. He risked a 
glance over his shoulder and realized that only one dog 
was following them. But it was much bigger than they 
were, and Hawkwing knew they would be outmatched 
if it came to a fight. 

The dog's disgusting scent was all around them, 
and Hawkwing could hear its panting breath. It ran 
with its jaws open, its tongue lolling out, and it seemed 
tireless. 

We're not going to make it. . . . Hawkwing 
remembered how Echosong had prophesied that bad 
things would happen if they stayed beside the lake. 
Was I wrong not to speak up and support her? he 
asked himself. After all we’ve been through, is this 
how SkyClan will end? 

Then Hawkwing spotted a gorse thicket at the 
bottom of a rocky slope. “Down there!” he gasped. 

Together he and Plumwillow scrambled down the 
slope, the kits letting out shrill wails of terror. When 


they reached the thicket they shoved the kits deep 
within the thorns, followed them as far as they could, 
then turned to face the dog. 

“It might be too big to get at us in here,” 
Plumwillow panted. 

At first the dog whined and scrabbled around at 
the edge of the thicket, and Hawkwing began to hope 
that it would get bored and go away. But then its 
whines changed to snarls of frustration and it began to 
push its way into the gorse, ignoring the thorns that 
tore at its pelt. 

Hawkwing slid out his claws. “Back off, mange- 
pelt!” he growled. 

He could feel the dog’s hot breath on his face. “If 
it comes in, go for its eyes,’ he whispered to 
Plumwillow. 

But before the dog could attack, distant barking 
sounded from the direction of the camp. The dog 
halted, its head raised to listen, and Hawkwing caught 
his breath, suddenly hopeful. The barking came again; 
the dog swung its head around, then with a last snarl it 
backed out of the gorse thicket and ran off. 

Thank StarClan! Hawkwing thought as he poked 


his head out of the bushes to watch it go. 

Hawkwing’s heart was pounding and he was 
shaking with relief as he turned to Plumwillow. “It 
looks like we’re safe—for now,” he meowed. 

Plumwillow was quivering with fear and tension. 
“Thank you, Hawkwing,” she whispered, pressing 
herself against his side. “You saved the kits.” 

“We both did.” 

The kits crept to their mother”s side, eyes still wide 
with shock. Plumwillow encircled them with her tail, 
and held them close to her and Hawkwmg. 

They are not my family, Hawkwmg told himself. 
But oh, StarClan, I wish they were! 


Night had fallen by the time Hawkwing limped 
back into the camp with Plumwillow and the kits. He 
found the rest of his Clan huddled beside the fresh-kill 
pile. Their pelts were bushed-up and ragged; their 
voices sounded hoarse as they discussed the dog 
attack. 

“Hawkwing!” His sister Blossomheart sprang to 
her paws and ran across the camp to meet him. “Are 
you okay? Are the kits okay?” 

“We're all fine,” Hawkwing replied wearily, setting 


Dewkit down and letting Reedkit slide off his back. “A 
bit scratched, and I’ve got a thorn in my pad. We had 
to hide in a gorse thicket.” 

“Thank StarClan!” Blossomheart exclaimed. “I 
was so worried.” 

“What about the rest of you?” 

“We’re okay,” Blossomheart told him. “Clovertail 
got bitten, and one of the dogs ripped part of Firefern’s 
pelt off, but Echosong has seen to them, and it’s not 
serious. The rest of us are just a bit bruised. But we 
fought the vicious brutes off,” she finished with 
satisfaction. 

“That’s good to hear,” Plumwillow mewed, relief in 
her voice. “Hawkwing, I’m going to take the kits back 
to the nursery. They’re exhausted.” 

Hawkwing nodded, seeing that she was right. The 
normally energetic kits could hardly put one paw in 
front of another as their mother herded them across 
the camp to the nursery. “They don’t look scared 
anymore,” he remarked. “They don’t understand how 
close we came to something terrible.” 

Plumwillow sighed. “The sooner they forget, the 
better.” 


When they had gone, Hawkwing followed 
Blossomheart to join his Clanmates. 

“The dogs are really a problem now,” Birdwing 
was meowing as he padded up. “It’s not safe here.” 

“Greenleaf is almost over,” Leafstar responded. 
“We just have to move the camp further away from 
the dogs.” 

“Our camp was far away from the dogs,” 
Sparrowpelt pointed out. “Or so we thought. If we 
move, who’s to say that they won’t find our new 
camp?” 

“And it’s not only the dogs!” Firefern protested, 
leaping to her paws. “They wouldn’t be here if it 
wasn’t for the Twolegs. They’re a much greater 
danger!” 

“That’s right,’ Clovertail put in. “We settled here 
partly because it was peaceful, safe, and free of 
Twolegs. Now it’s like we’re living in the middle of a 
Twolegplace!” 

“Hey, don’t get carried away,” Macgyver mewed, 
sounding much calmer than the she-cats. “Yes, there 
are Twolegs here now. But there’s plenty of prey and 
unspoiled territory as well. And I’ve noticed that some 


of the Twolegs are packing up and leaving. Can’t we 
put up with them for a bit longer? Maybe they’ ll all be 
gone by leaf-bare.” 

Parsleyseed nodded vigorously in agreement. 
“Twolegs are better than raccoons,” he pointed out. 
“At least the worst they”1l do is try to pet us.” 

“That's not true!” Echosong spoke up, her voice 
deeply serious. “Parsleyseed, you haven’t lived long 
enough to see the evil Twolegs can do.” 

“You're right, Echosong,’ Leafstar meowed, 
dipping her head to the medicine cat. “But I think 
Macgyver’s right, too, that the Twolegs are beginning 
to leave. I believe we can avoid the ones who remain 
by moving our camp.” 

Cries of protest rose from the cats who surrounded 
her. 

“Wherever we go, there’ll be Twolegs!” 

“There’s nowhere as sheltered as where we are 
now!” 

Echosong silenced the objections with a wave of 
her tail as she rose to her paws and picked her way 
through the crowd of cats to stand in front of Leafstar. 

“T don’t know if moving our camp will help or not,” 


she announced. “And I don’t intend to stay and find 
out.” 

An even deeper silence rippled through the Clan as 
the cats exchanged shocked glances. Leafstar was 
staring wide-eyed at the medicine cat, as if she 
couldn’t believe what she had just heard. 

“What do you mean?” she asked. 

Echosong let out a sigh; Hawkwing could see the 
distress in her eyes. “I’ve tried to see things your way, 
Leafstar,” she began. “I really have. I want the Clan to 
settle down and become strong again. But I’ve just had 
another vision of a smoldering ember. The spark that 
remains. We’re no closer to finding it, and now we’re 
not even trying!” 

“Has StarClan spoken to you again?” Leafstar 
asked urgently. 

Echosong shook her head. “StarClan has already 
made it very clear that we’re supposed to unite with 
the other Clans. The dog attack was a reminder of that 
—maybe even a sign. I can no longer ignore my 
feelings that we have turned our back on StarClan and 
their instructions. There’s only one way to dispel the 
darkness . . . and that is to find the spark that 


remains.” She paused, taking a deep breath. “In the 
morning, I will set out to search for the lake in my 
visions, where I believe I will find ThunderClan.” 

Hawkwing felt as though a lightning bolt had 
appeared out of a clear sky and struck his Clan. He 
expected more protests, but every cat was silent, their 
gazes fixed on Leafstar. The unthinkable was 
happening, and no cat had any words. 

“Why would you do this?” Leafstar asked quietly. 
“After we’ve lived together for so many seasons?” 

“I know I have a duty to SkyClan,” Echosong 
replied; Hawkwing thought she was having trouble 
keeping her voice steady. “But I have just as great a 
duty to StarClan. And I believe I haven’t received any 
more messages from them because I’m not following 
their instructions.” 

“And what about your Clanmates?” Leafstar 
demanded, anger edging its way into her voice. 
“Clovertail was bitten today, and Firefern had her 
shoulder fur torn off.” She angled her ears toward the 
two she-cats. “Who will look after them?” 

“I thought of that, of course I did,” Echosong 
responded. “And I spoke to Fidgetpaw. He will stay, 


and take good care of SkyClan.” 

“What?” Leafstar’s voice rose. “Are you serious? 
Fidgetpaw is smart and he’s learning quickly, but he’s 
still only an apprentice! What if something terrible 
happened, and Fidgetpaw didn’t know what to do?” 

“That’s the risk we have to take.” Echosong flexed 
her claws, digging them hard into the ground. “Believe 
me, Leafstar, I’ve thought long and hard about this. 
But I know that drastic steps must be taken to save the 
Clan! And I believe that Fidgetpaw is capable. I’ve 
trained him as wellas I can.” 

Fidgetpaw ducked his head where he sat on the 
edge of the crowd of cats. “I’ll do my best, Leafstar,” 
he mewed in a small voice, as if he was overwhelmed 
by the thought of taking responsibility for all of 
SkyClan. 

He must be so nervous, Hawkwing thought 
sympathetically. Echosong is asking a lot of him. 

For a few moments that seemed to drag out for 
moons, Leafstar and Echosong faced each other. 
Hawkwing could feel the tension in the air between 
them. 

At last Echosong bowed her head. “Leafstar, you 


know that I must follow StarClan’s wishes. They have 
saved us before.” 

For a long moment Leafstar remained in thoughtful 
silence. Then she gave a weary nod. “I know you 
believe that you have to do this. I’m not happy that 
you’re leaving, and I have my doubts that Fidgetpaw is 
ready to take on this job. But if you’re right, and this is 
truly the will of StarClan, then perhaps—one day— 
we'll be united again.” 

“I hope and pray that will happen,” Echosong 
responded. Then she stood up straighter, letting her 
gaze travel around the Clan, and continued more 
briskly, “I would prefer not to go alone. Leafstar, will 
you allow some cats to come with me to find the lake I 
believe StarClan means us to find?” 

Leafstar’s ears twitched up, and for a moment 
Hawkwing thought that she would refuse. Then she 
dipped her head in reluctant agreement. “I know some 
cats might feel the same as you, Echosong,” she 
mewed. “If any cat wants to leave with you, I will not 
stand in their way.” 

“Thank you,” Echosong murmured. 

“PI come,” Bellaleaf offered immediately, rising to 


her paws. 

As she spoke Harrybrook half rose, seemed to 
change his mind, then got up to stand beside Bellaleaf. 
“PIL come too,” he meowed. “I’m sorry!” he added, 
his eyes distraught as he gazed at his mother, Leafstar. 
“I don’t want to leave you, but I think Echosong is 
right, and . . . and she can’t just wander off without 
any warriors to take care of her!” 

Leafstar’s voice was tight as she responded. “You 
must follow your heart, Harrybrook.” 

Hawkwing felt his paws twitching. All his instincts 
were telling him to volunteer to go with Echosong. But 
there were too many arguments against it. J have 
duties here! I have Curlypaw to train! And I owe so 
much to Leafstar! 

Aware of some cat’s gaze on him, he turned his 
head and exchanged a long look with Plumwillow. He 
knew that she would never leave the rest of the Clan. 
Besides, the kits are too young to travel. 

He knew too that the old hot-headed Hawkwing— 
the cat who had failed all the cats he loved—would 
have been the first one to volunteer to leave with 
Echosong. But even though he was still certain that 


this lake was the wrong place for SkyClan, now he felt 
strongly that the responsible thing to do was stay. 

“Ts that all?” Echosong asked. 

Hawkwing felt that she was staring right at him. 
He looked away, but that meant that his gaze fell on 
Leafstar. He could tell—however hard the Clan leader 
tried not to show it—by the tightness of her muzzle and 
her bristling shoulder fur just how angry and upset she 
felt that more cats were leaving. 

“Very well” Echosong meowed at last. “We will 
leave at sunrise.” 


As the sun rose, SkyClan gathered at the entrance 
to the camp to say good-bye to Echosong and the 
others. 

“I understand what pushed you to go,” Leafstar 
meowed to the medicine cat, “but it grieves me to the 
bottom of my heart to see the Clan split again. It was 
hard enough to lose Frecklewish, and the other 
warriors who stayed beside the gorge.” 

Echosong nodded; Hawkwing thought she looked 
regretful, but there was no sign of wavering in her 
decision. “I hope this will not be forever,’ she 
responded. “If—when— we find the other Clans, PI 


send a messenger to find the rest of you. And the cats 
who stayed near the gorge, too.” 

Hawkwing’s throat went dry at the thought of 
seeing his lost Clanmates again. Are they okay? And 
what about Cherrytail and Cloudmist, back in 
Barley s barn? Maybe one day I'll see them again, 
too. And Pebbleshine . . . she must find her way 
back to us! 

Echosong slipped through the group of cats, saying 
a personal farewell to each of them. When she came 
to Hawkwing, she fixed him with a clear green gaze. 
“You have come so far,’ she murmured. As warm 
pride flooded Hawkwing’s pelt, she added, “But you 
still have far to go. Remember who you are, 
Hawkwing.” Then she touched her nose to his and 
moved on. 

Startled, Hawkwing considered her words as he 
watched her go. Remember who I am? 

But then tiny claws fastened into his pelt from 
behind, and he heard Dewkit squealing into his ear. 
“T’m a Twoleg dog! Fight me!” 

I’ve found my family, Hawkwing thought. And 
even though Plumwillow wasn’t his true mate, that 


was enough to fill his heart, for now. 





CHAPTER 31 
+ 


Hawkwing poked his head through the ferns that 
sheltered the apprentices’ den, only to find it empty. 
There was no sign of Curlypaw, and her scent was 
stale. Puzzled, he drew back and padded into the 
center of the camp, where Blossomheart and 
Sagenose were waiting for him. 

“There’s no sign of her,” he reported. “I wonder 
where she’s gone?” 

Before either of his Clanmates could respond, 
Curlypaw came dashing through the camp entrance 
and skidded to a halt at Hawkwing’s side. 

“Sorry,” she panted. “I had to go and make dirt.” 

Her pelt had an odd, harsh tang that Hawkwing 
couldn’t identify, and the stale scent in her den 
suggested she had been away for longer than it would 
take to go to the dirtplace. 

She's up to something, Hawkwing thought. 

But he didn't want to question his apprentice in 
front of the others, and the rest of the huntmg patrols 
had already left. “Okay,” he meowed. “Let's go.” 


Pll talk to her later. 

But as Hawkwing led the way through the woods, 
his apprentice’s weird behavior slipped out of his mind. 
He had too many other things to worry about. 

Two moons had passed since Echosong and the 
others had left the Clan. A few days later, Leafstar 
had ordered the remaining SkyClan cats to move camp 
into a stretch of long grass at the far end of the lake. 

But that had been no better. There were still 
disturbances from the Twolegs and their dogs, and the 
new camp was more exposed to the huge birds that 
had attacked Blossomheart and Curlypaw. Plumwillow 
had been terrified that they would carry off the kits. 

So Leafstar had decided to move camp yet again, 
to an area of woodland on the opposite side of the lake 
from where they had first settled. They found a deep 
hollow surrounded by brambles and thornbushes; it 
wasn’t as big or as sheltered as their first camp, but it 
was the best they could find. 

At first the new place had seemed to work well. 
SkyClan was a long way away from the noise and 
activity around the water, and though there were a few 
Twoleg dens beside a Thunderpath on the far side of 


the trees, the Twolegs there didn’t seem interested in 
the cats. Even so, their comings and goings, the roar of 
their monsters down the Thunderpath, disturbed the 
cats’ peace and meant they had to be continually alert. 

But what worried Hawkwing more than anything 
was that some of the younger cats weren’t scared 
enough. They thought it was exciting to be so close to 
Twolegs. 

And then there's Parsleyseed ... 

A few days before, as twilight was falling and the 
cats of SkyClan were eating together in the camp, the 
young warrior had risen to his paws in the midst of his 
Clanmates. “There's something I have to tell you,” he 
meowed, sounding scared and determined at the same 
time. 

Leafstar looked up, mildly surprised. “Go on,” she 
responded. 

Parsleyseed hesitated, gulping, and Hawkwing felt 
a prickle of uneasiness in his pelt. Whats the matter, 
that he could find it so hard to talk about? 

Then Parsleyseed seemed to brace himself. “I’m 
going to leave to become a kittypet!” he blurted out. 

Yowls of disbelief and protest rose from the cats 


around him. 

“You can t!” 

“This is where you belong!” 

“You would really betray SkyClan?” 

Parsleyseed shook his head miserably, looking at 
his paws. “I don’t want to betray any cat,” he mewed, 
“but—” 

Leafstar interrupted him, still calm, though 
Hawkwing could see that she was as shocked as any 
cat. “Why, Parsleyseed?” she asked. “What makes 
you want to leave us?” 

“Pm scared all the time here,” Parsleyseed 
confessed. “The territory is full of dogs and Twolegs. . 

“So you want to go and live with Twolegs?” 
Sparrowpelt snapped. “That's really smart of you!” 

“It's not like that!” Parsleyseed defended himself. 
“I met these Twolegs—they live in one of the dens by 
the Thunderpath—and they started to put food out for 
me. I tried it—and I really like the taste! And I let 
them stroke me, and I liked that, too!” The last few 
words burst out of him defiantly, as if he was ashamed 
and trying not to show it. 


Now that Hawkwing thought about it, he 
remembered seeing Parsleyseed slinking off alone into 
the woods more than once over the last half moon. / 
should have tried to find out what he was up to, he 
thought, and maybe it wouldn t have come to this. 

“Look, Parsleyseed.” Macgyver, who had once 
been a daylight warrior, rose to his paws and padded 
up to the younger cat, laying his tail over the brown 
tabby tom’s shoulders. “I know all about being a 
kittypet, and it’s not as easy as you think. You only eat 
when the Twolegs give you food. You only go in and 
out when the Twolegs say you can. Is that what you 
really want?” When Parsleyseed didn’t reply, he 
added, “And then there’s the Cutter.” 

Parsleyseed looked sharply at him. “What's the 
Cutter?” 

“Pm not exactly sure,” Macgyver replied, 
“because my Twolegs never took me there, thank 
StarClan. But the Cutter does something. I know this 
because all the cats who went to him came back very 
lazy, not like proper cats at all. They got so fat!” 

A few gasps of horror came from his listening 
Clanmates. “That's terrible!” Firefern exclaimed. 


“I don’t care,” Parsleyseed meowed stubbornly. 
“T’ve made up my mind. Being a kittypet is easier. And 
safer.” 

Hawkwing saw the hurt in Leafstar’s eyes at the 
young warrior’s last words, but she didn’t try to argue 
with him. Because she knows that, these days, it’s 
true. 

He couldn’t imagine ever wanting to leave his Clan 
for the life of a kittypet. It would feel like an insult to 
his parents, not to mention StarClan. But he could 
understand Parsleyseed’s fear. J still cant help 
feeling that somethings wrong, and that something 
is coming that is even more terrifying than the dog 
attack. ... 

The Clan leader had dipped her head. “Then may 
StarClan light your path, Parsleyseed.” 

And on the following morning, Parsleyseed had left 
SkyClan for good. 

Now Hawkwmg led his hunting patrol deeper into 
the woods, well away from the lake. Though the 
Twolegs weren’t splashing around in the water 
anymore—and why in the name of StarClan would 
any sensible creature want to get wet?—they still 


roared around on their water monsters. Hawkwing had 
even seen them luring fish out of the water on strange 
sticks with long tendrils hanging from them. 

“Hawkwing!” Curlypaw’s whisper brought 
Hawkwing out of his thoughts. “Rabbit!” 

She was angling her ears toward a mossy bank 
where Hawkwing could see the openings to several 
burrows. The rabbit was nibbling on a patch of sorrel, 
hopping slowly from one clump to the next. 

“Okay,” Hawkwing murmured. “Sagenose, 
Blossomheart, work your way around so you get 
between the rabbit and the burrows. Curlypaw, you’re 
with me.” 

“The wind’s blowing toward us,” Sagenose pointed 
out. “If we do what you say, the rabbit will scent us.” 

“I know. I want it to scent you,” Hawkwing 
explained. “But it won’t be able to go underground, 
because you'll be in the way. The only way it can run 
is over here, straight into our paws.” 

“Brilliant!” Blossomheart breathed out. 

When she and Sagenose had gone, circling around 
the rabbit from opposite directions, Hawkwing and 
Curlypaw crouched down in the long grass, a couple of 


tai-lengths separating them. 

“Ready?” Hawkwing asked. 

“Ready,” Curlypaw confirmed, her eyes bright. 

Several moments dragged out until the rabbit sat 
up, its ears quivering, then made a dash for the 
burrows. But Sagenose was in the way, bounding 
toward the rabbit with teeth and claws bared. 

The rabbit veered away, letting out a thin squeal of 
terror as it saw Blossomheart, then doubled back and 
raced toward Curlypaw. Hawkwing almost sprang out 
of hiding, but stayed still, leaving the kill to his 
apprentice. 

Curlypaw waited until exactly the right moment, 
then leaped out of the grass with a ferocious snarl and 
fell on top of the rabbit, biting down hard on its neck. 

“Great catch!” Hawkwing congratulated her, 
padding over to give her prey a sniff. 

“Yeah fantastic!” Sagenose added as he bounded 
up. 

“It was Hawkwing's plan,” Curlypaw mewed, 
giving her chest fur an embarrassed lick at her father’s 
praise. “I couldn't have done it without him.” 

Hawkwing gazed at her proudly. His apprentice 


was becoming a great hunter, and he could imagine 
what an asset to her Clan she would be. /t's almost 
time to start thinking about her warrior ceremony. 

Later, as the hunting patrol was returning, laden 
with prey, Curlypaw hung back to let Sagenose and 
Blossomheart go on ahead. “Hawkwing, can I talk to 
you in private?” she asked. 

“Of course you can,” Hawkwing replied. He was 
surprised, until he remembered that Curlypaw had 
been gazing mistily at Rileypool for the past few days. 
Shes probably going to ask my advice about toms! 
He hid his amusement. Good luck with that, he 
thought. Its not like I’m an expert on love! 

Then his amusement faded as he remembered 
Pebbleshine, and how much he still missed her. But I 
can t think of her now, he told himself. If Curlypaw 
needs me, I have to do the best I can for her. 

Before Curlypaw could tell Hawkwing what was 
on her mind, they heard a distant barking from the 
direction of the camp. No! Hawkwing thought. Not 
again... 

Without a word all the patrol broke into a run, 
discarding their prey. Hawkwing led the way, hurtling 


through the trees until they were nothing but a blur as 
he sped past. 

As he approached the camp, the direction of the 
barking changed, as if the dogs were moving off, 
farther into the woods. Briefly Hawkwing hoped that 
the danger was over. 

But then Plumwillow burst out of the undergrowth, 
her fur bushed up and her eyes wild and distraught. 
“The kits are gone!” she exclaimed. 

Hawkwing halted, horror turning his bones to ice. 
“What?” 

“Dogs attacked the camp,” Plumwillow gasped. 
“Only three—but they were so big. They managed to 
corner the kits, and they chased them out of the camp. 

She broke off, her chest heaving as she fought for 
breath. 

Hawkwing didn’t need to hear any more. “Check 
the camp!” he ordered the rest of the patrol, then took 
off in the direction of the barking, with Plumwillow 
hard on his paws. Soon his lungs were burning, his legs 
aching as he forced his muscles to flex faster and 
faster. But he couldn't stop until he saw the kits again. 


I'll flay those dogs if they’ve hurt one hair of 
their pelts! 

At last Hawkwing and Plumwillow halted beside a 
line of bushes that enclosed a Twoleg den. The sound 
of barking ripped through the air. With a glance at 
Plumwillow, Hawkwing pushed his way through the 
bushes and into the Twoleg garden. 

In the middle of a stretch of grass Hawkwing saw 
a tiny Twoleg den, striped in bright colors. Three huge 
black dogs stood outside it, barking so loudly they could 
be heard in StarClan. 

“What is that?” Hawkwing murmured, half to 
himself. “It’s too small for Twolegs.” 

“I think it’s for the Twoleg kits. It’s too small for 
the dogs to get in,” Plumwillow murmured at his 
shoulder. “The kits must be in there—I can scent 
them!” 

“Then they're safe for now,” Hawkwing 
responded. “But how are we going to get them out?” 

“We'll have to distract the dogs somehow,” 
Plumwillow mewed. 

Hawkwing gazed across the garden, imagining 
himself dashing out to draw the dogs off while 


Plumwillow rescued the kits. Yes, that could work! he 
thought, flexing his claws excitedly. But before he 
could make a move the door of the Twoleg den 
slammed open and a female Twoleg appeared, yowling 
and waving her forelegs at the dogs. 

The dogs ignored her, until she came close enough 
to grab one of them by the collar around its neck and 
yank it back, still yowling and waving her paw in the 
dogs’ faces. Eventually the dogs calmed down and 
backed off, whimpering. 

The Twoleg peered inside the tiny den and her 
jaws dropped open in surprise. She started to make 
soft, cooing noises. Plumwillow and Hawkwing 
exchanged a glance of alarm as the Twoleg reached 
into the den and lifted Dewkit into her arms, then 
picked up Finkit and cuddled him. Reedkit followed her 
littermates into the open, starmg in terror at the 
Twoleg. 

“We have to do something!” Plumwillow cried. 
“What if she takes them inside her den? What if she 
makes them mto kittypets?” 

“We won't let her,” Hawkwmg promised. “Listen 
—you bite the Twoleg on her leg, and when she 


crouches down I'll leap at her and claw her face. If 
that doesn’t make her drop the kits, nothing will!” 

“Okay,” Plumwillow mewed tensely. 

Racing across the grass, she leaped up at the 
Twoleg and sank her teeth into her leg. The Twoleg let 
out a yelp of pain and stooped to bat Plumwillow away. 
Hawkwing dashed up and aimed his claws at her face; 
the Twoleg started back in alarm, dropping Finkit and 
Dewkit and letting out a frightened yowl. 

“This way!” Hawkwmg exclaimed, pushing all 
three kits in front of him toward the bushes. “As fast 
as you can!” 

At the same moment a huge male Twoleg came 
running out of the den, yowling even louder than his 
mate and glaring in the cats’ direction. The dogs 
started barking again, bounding after Hawkwing and 
Plumwillow as they helped the kits wriggle through the 
bushes and out into the woods. 

Hawkwing turned to face the dogs, his claws 
extended as he snarled defiance, but before the dogs 
reached him the male Twoleg ran up to them, still 
yowling, and herded them back to the den. Hawkwing 
let out a gusty sigh of relief before thrusting his way 


through the tough branches to join Plumwillow and the 
kits. 

Urging the kits on, Hawkwing and Plumwillow 
hurried deep into the trees before they dared stop to 
check on them. 

“Are you okay?” Plumwillow asked anxiously, 
sniffing them all over. 

“We’re fine!” Reedkit panted. 

“Twolegs aren’t that scary,” Finkit added. 

Dewkit fluffed up his pelt. “It felt kind of nice 
when the female picked me up,” he declared. 

Hawkwing gave Plumwillow a serious look. “This 
is the second time the kits have been in danger from 
dogs,” he meowed. “We can’t risk it happening again.” 

“I know,” Plumwillow agreed. “And I don’t like the 
way they’re not scared of Twolegs. You should be 
scared,” she added severely to her kits. 

“Then we have to do something,’ Hawkwing 
meowed. 

Plumwillow gave him a long, serious look. “Are 
you saying what I think you’re saying?” 

Hawkwing nodded. I’ve tried my best to stay, but 
I cant deny any longer that the danger is getting 


worse. The dogs keep attacking, and the kits are 
growing up with no fear of Twolegs. This isnt our 
home. We need to find another camp. 

“We have to convince Leafstar to leave the lake,” 
he responded. “She won’t like it, but I can’t see any 
other way.” 


When they were still a long way from the camp, 
Hawkwing spotted movement in the undergrowth. He 
tensed, then relaxed as a SkyClan patrol emerged into 
the open. Leafstar was in the lead, with Waspwhisker, 
Sparrowpelt, Tinycloud, and Rabbitleap. 

“You found the kits!” Leafstar exclaimed, relief 
shining in her eyes as she halted in front of Hawkwing. 
“We were on our way to help you. Are they hurt?” 

“No, we’re all okay,” Dewkit replied, fluffing out 
his fur. 

“We ran faster than those stupid dogs,” Reedkit 
boasted. “And we hid in a tiny little Twoleg den.” 

Finkit puffed out his chest proudly. “Those mange- 
pelts couldn’t get us in there.” 

Hawkwing suppressed a mrrow of amusement. 
Now that they're over their fear, they'll be telling 
the story for moons! 


“You were all very brave,” Leafstar praised them. 
“And now let's get back to camp.” 

When the patrol returned with the kits, the rest of 
their Clanmates pressed around them, welcoming them 
back with yowls of joy. 

“Give the kits space to breathe!” Plumwillow 
protested. “They’re exhausted—they need to eat 
something and go to sleep.” 

Soon the whole Clan settled down around the 
fresh-kill pile to eat and discuss the dog attack. The 
kits started to tell their story agam—Hawkwing noticed 
that the dogs seemed to get bigger with every 
heartbeat—but before they got to the end their 
weariness overcame them, and they curled up next to 
Plumwillow in a purring, sleepy heap of fur. 

As Hawkwing was finishing off a juicy vole, 
Curlypaw padded over to him and gave him a nudge. 
“Ts it okay to talk now?” 

Amid all the stress of the dog attack, Hawkwing 
had completely forgotten that Curlypaw had asked to 
talk to him. Now the last thing he wanted was to 
advise her about toms. He would much rather have 
burrowed into his nest in the warriors’ den and gone to 


sleep. But he knew that he couldn't brush his 
apprentice off like that. 

“Won’t the morning do instead?” he asked. 

Curlypaw shifted her paws uncomfortably. “It’s 
kind of important.” 

Hawkwing suppressed a mrrow of amusement. / 
guess toms are really important to a young she-cat! 
“Okay,” he replied. “Let’s go over here where it’s a bit 
quieter.” 

Hawkwing led the way to where a thornbush jutted 
out from the rocky bank which formed the edge of the 
camp. “Well, spit it out,” he meowed. 

Curlypaw gave him a nervous glance and then 
studied her paws. “I’ve given it a lot of thought,” she 
murmured at last, “and I’ve decided to join 
Parsleyseed as a kittypet.” 

Hawkwing felt as if his heart had plummeted down 
into his paws. His jaws gaped open as he stared at his 
apprentice. 7 thought this was going to be about 
Rileypool! “What?” he spluttered. “I didn’t see that 
coming!” 

“That's because you didn’t want to see,” 
Curlypaw responded. “Whenever I’ve gotten the 


chance, I’ve been going down to the lakeshore, and I 
didn’t much care if any cat saw me going. Most of the 
Twolegs are very nice. They stroke me and give me 
food.” 

“And you’d give up being a Clan cat for that?” 
Hawkwing asked incredulously. “You”ve been domg so 
well. You'll be a great warrior—a huge asset to your 
Clan!” 

‘Tve tried my best to learn,” Curlypaw sighed. “I 
know I’m good at hunting, and I do care about my 
Clan. But Parsleyseed is right; it’s easier and safer to 
be a kittypet.” 

“You’ve been visitng Parsleyseed?” Hawkwing 
asked sharply. 

“Yes. I went to Parsleyseed’s new home first thing 
this morning and talked to him,” Curlypaw replied. 

So that’s where she was before our hunting 
patrol! Hawkwing thought with sudden understanding. 
That must have been some kind of Twoleg scent on 
her fur. 

“I met his Twolegs—Parsleyseed calls them 
“housefolk”—and they were very kind,” Curlypaw 
continued. “Parsleyseed says he has all the delicious 


food he can eat, and his housefolk let him out 
whenever he wants, except at night, because then it’s 
his job to guard the Twoleg kit. He thinks he can 
convince his Twolegs to take in another cat, and I—” 
She hesitated, then finished defiantly, “I want to go!” 

“But how can you abandon your Clan?” 
Hawkwing asked, still hardly able to believe he was 
hearing this. “How can you abandon StarClan?” 

To his amazement, there was pity in Curlypaw’s 
eyes as she gazed at him. “Why should I care about 
StarClan?” she asked. “Does StarClan care about us? 
Our medicine cat has left us. We haven’t found the 
other Clans. What if everything we’ve been told about 
StarClan is just a . . . a pretty story? Because if 
StarClan really exists, why would they allow us to 
suffer like this?” 

Hawkwing had no idea what to say. Her doubts 
reflected ones he had felt himself, but he had never 
realized that Curlypaw shared them. /ts my fault, he 
thought. I've failed her as a mentor. 

“Don't go,” he mewed, his voice raw. If she stays 
lil do better, he vowed. I'll win her over. I'll share 
my doubts with her, and we'll talk about them 


together. I'll show her why being a Clan cat is 
important. 

Curlypaw rubbed her cheek against his. “PI never 
stop being grateful to you, but I’ve already decided,” 
she responded gently. “PI leave in the morning.” 

“Does Leafstar know?” Hawkwing asked, 
reluctantly accepting defeat. 

“I told Birdwing and Sagenose,” Curlypaw replied. 
“They say they understand, and that they’ll tell 
Leafstar.” 

She dipped her head and padded away toward the 
apprentices’ den. Stunned, Hawkwing watched her 
stroll out of sight, then stumbled back into the center of 
the hollow. He didn’t want to talk to any cat, but after 
a moment he found his paw steps taking him to the 
nursery, where Plumwillow had made a nest of moss 
and bracken underneath the low-growing branches of 
a hazel bush. 

Inside he breathed in the warm, milky scent of the 
kits and began to relax slightly. Plumwillow was still 
awake, gently licking the sleeping kits. As Hawkwing 
approached she raised her head and blinked at him 
affectionately. 


“Don't wake them,” she murmured. 

“I won't.” Gently Hawkwing nuzzled each kit in 
turn. At his touch they gave a little wriggle, but didn’t 
wake. “They’re so beautiful We must do everything 
we can to keep them safe.” 

Plumwillow nodded. “TIl see you in the morning.” 

Hawkwing retreated into the open again and 
spotted Leafstar sitting in the middle of the clearing, 
her head raised as she gazed at the moon. Her 
expression was unreadable. 

Thinking of what he had to say to her on the 
following day, Hawkwing felt a tingle of apprehension 
in his belly. He knew that after everything the Clan had 
been through, Leafstar would probably react badly to 
his insistence that they finally leave the lake. We must 
do this, though, he thought, for the good of the 
Clan. 

But how can I convince Leafstar of that, when 
even Echosong couldn t? 





CHAPTER 32 
+ 


Hawkwing s heart was heavy as he padded out of 
the camp early the next morning with Curlypaw by his 
side. He still found it hard to believe that his apprentice 
was lost to him, and to the whole of SkyClan. It was 
harder still to be angry with her, after all the trouble 
SkyClan had suffered since Duskpaw’s death in the 
fire and the arrival of Darktail. 

How much more must we go through before we 
find our new home? 

The dawn light was gray and dim, the clouds 
barely clearing the tops of the trees. Tall grasses bent 
over with the weight of dew, brushing the cats’ pelts as 
they passed. The damp cold struck deep beneath 
Hawkwing’s fur, and he shivered. 

“You'll give me the chance to get to Parsleyseed’s 
den?” Curlypaw asked. “I don’t want any cat chasing 
me and trying to make me stay.” 

“No cat will come after you,’ Hawkwing 
promised. “If that’s what you really want.” 

His belly cramped with apprehension as he 


imagined the reaction of his Clanmates when they 
found out she had actually gone. He didn’t want them 
to think that Curlypaw was a coward, or just looking 
for a soft and easy life. 

And what will they think of me? he asked himself 
gloomily. A warrior who couldnt keep his 
apprentice. If I lose their respect, how will 1 
convince Leafstar that we need to move on? 

The two cats halted on the bank of a small stream. 
Beyond it was a long slope covered with fern, and 
from the top of that, Hawkwing knew, Curlypaw would 
be able to see Parsleyseed’s Twoleg nest. 

“This is it, then,’ Hawkwing meowed. “You’re 
sure you won’t change your mind?” 

Curlypaw shook her head. “I’ve thought long and 
hard about this, Hawkwing,” she replied. “I know it’s 
the right decision for me. But it’s not like we’ll never 
see each other again,” she added, clearly trying to 
sound cheerful. “We still live beside the same lake.” 

We do for now, Hawkwing thought, still fiercely 
hoping that he could persuade Leafstar to change her 
mind and move on. But he didn’t think that would 
make any difference to Curlypaw. “Good luck,” he 


mewed. “And may StarClan light your path.” 

“Yours, too,” Curlypaw responded, rubbing her 
cheek against his. 

I’m really going to miss her, Hawkwing thought. 
She's so smart and capable. And if SkyClan cant 
hold on to young cats like her, what kind of future 
do we have? 

With a final dip of her head, Curlypaw leaped 
across the stream and disappeared into the ferns. 
Hawkwing stood there for a long time, watching the 
movement of the fronds as Curlypaw climbed the 
slope. At last all movement ceased, and he knew she 
must have crossed the ridge and must be racing 
toward Parsleyseed’s den and her new life as a 
kittypet. 

And now I have to talk to Leafstar, he thought, 
turning away with a sigh. 

When Hawkwing returned to camp, Leafstar and 
Waspwhisker were in the middle of arranging the 
dawn patrols. Hawkwing stood to one side until the 
groups separated and set out. Then he padded up to his 
Clan leader. 

“Leafstar, may I speak to you in private?” he 


asked. 

“What is this all about?” Waspwhisker asked. 

Hawkwing gave the Clan deputy an awkward 
glance. He had wanted to discuss the Clan’s future 
with Leafstar alone, but Waspwhisker was standing 
there as if his paws had grown roots, and Leafstar 
made no attempt to dismiss him. 

Giving in, Hawkwing dipped his head respectfully. 
“T feel it’s time to rethink our decision to stay here by 
the lake,” he began. “Dewkit, Reedkit, and Finkit could 
have been killed yesterday. And we’re losing young 
cats to Twolegs, of all things.” 

At these words, Leafstar exchanged a glance with 
Waspwhisker, and Hawkwing guessed that she had 
already told her deputy that Curlypaw had gone to join 
Parsleyseed. 

“I understand we do not want to make the wrong 
decision,” Hawkwing continued. “But I’ve had the 
feeling for a long time that there has to be a better 
place for us to be than this. And I can’t ignore it any 
longer.” 

As Hawkwing spoke, Waspwhisker’s eyes 
narrowed and his shoulder fur began to bristle. 


“You've got a feeling?” the deputy challenged him. 
“And because of this feeling we all have to set out 
again, going StarClan knows where?” 

“Echosong didn’t think it was right, either,” 
mumbled Plumwillow. 

“Isn't any other cat sick of traveling!?” 
Waspwhisker hissed. 

“Waspwhisker, that's enough,” Leafstar mewed 
with a twitch of her tail-tip. “I don’t like what 
Hawkwing is saying any more than you do. But I have 
to admit that the same thoughts have been going 
through my mind.” 

A jolt of surprise throbbed through Hawkwing. / 
expected a real argument with Leafstar. But here 
she is agreeing with me. 

“I keep expecting life to get easier here by the 
lake,” Leafstar continued, “but . . . it doesn’t. And I 
can see that some of our young cats are losing touch 
with StarClan.” 

Like Curlypaw, Hawkwing thought, remembering 
what his former apprentice had said the night before. 

“And . . .” Leafstar went on, “Fidgetpaw hasn't 
had any visions since Echosong left. Now I understand 


what Echosong meant about losing her connection to 
StarClan. I can’t help but think that if we were 
surrounded by other Clans, we would be better able to 
keep our faith in StarClan strong.” 

Waspwhisker had listened carefully to everything 
his Clan leader said, and now he gave a reluctant nod 
of acceptance. “What do you want to do, then?” he 
asked. 

Leafstar hesitated, her eyes deep pools of thought. 
Hawkwing felt as though a whole family of mice were 
chasing each other in his belly as he waited for her 
decision. 

Finally the Clan leader drew herself up and took a 
deep breath. “The only solution is to leave,’ she 
announced. 

Waspwhisker’s eyes stretched wide with 
amazement. “Leave now?” His shoulder fur began to 
bristle. “For StarClan’s, sake, Leafstar, it’s nearly leaf- 
bare. We had a terrible time traveling from the gorge 
to here, and that was in newleaf. What cat can 
imagine wandering in the wilderness for moons in the 
coldest weather, when prey is the most scarce?” 

“But that’s the worst that could happen,” 


Hawkwing pointed out. “It’s possible we would meet 
up with Echosong very soon, and find our place by the 
lake where the other Clans live, before leaf-bare. It’s 
early yet—there’s still a moon or two of leaf-fall 
ahead.” 

“Oh, yes,” Waspwhisker meowed with a scowl, his 
voice heavily sarcastic. “This journey has gone really 
great for us so far—and you're saying the worst won't 
happen?” 

Hawkwing winced. He realized how stupid he had 
been, after all the Clan had been through, to speak so 
optimistically. 

“We mustn’t lose faith,’ Leafstar insisted. “I know 
it will be a difficult journey, even if it is a short one. But 
we must remember what is at stake here: the future of 
SkyClan.” Gazing at Hawkwing, her amber eyes 
softened. “It was brave of you to bring this up,” she 
meowed. “A bit more like the Hawkwing I know.” 
Before Hawkwing could ask her what she meant by 
that, she turned away. “Pll go speak to Fidgetpaw 
about preparing traveling herbs.” 


The sun had gone down, and twilight was 
gathering. Hawkwing watched as Leafstar leaped up 


to the branch of an oak tree that jutted out over the 
camp. His belly churned in anticipation of what was 
coming. 

“Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey 
join here underneath this tree for a Clan meeting,” she 
called. 

In response to their leader’s voice, the cats of 
SkyClan began to emerge from their dens. 
Waspwhisker bounded over to the tree and sat next to 
the trunk, looking up at his leader. Hawkwing padded 
over to join Plumwillow as she appeared at the 
entrance to the nursery. Her kits peered curiously 
around her, even though it was time for them to sleep. 
Sparrowpelt and Tinycloud sat nearby, their pelts 
brushing, while Fidgetpaw slid out of the medicine cat’s 
den, and went to sit with Birdwing, Sagenose, and 
Macgyver. 

As the rest of the Clan assembled they glanced 
uneasily at each other, whiskers twitching and shoulder 
fur beginning to rise. And no wonder, Hawkwing 
thought. /t never good news when the Clan leader 
calls an unexpected meeting at this time. 

“The lake was never meant to be our new camp,” 


Leafstar began. “It was simply somewhere to regroup, 
while we waited for a new sign from StarClan, or 
figured out once and for all what they were asking of 
us. And now, dogs and Twolegs give us trouble, and 
our young cats have begun to drift away from Clan 
life.” She paused for a moment, closing her eyes 
briefly, then continued, “It is past time for SkyClan to 
leave this place, and resume our quest to seek out the 
other Clans.” 

A gasp of astonishment rose from the assembled 
cats. For a moment they were stunned into silence. 
Then Sparrowpelt rose to his paws. 

“Pm sorry, Leafstar,” he meowed, “but if you 
weren’t my Clan leader, I’d tell you there must be bees 
in your brain. Leave? When we finally have a decent 
place to live, and all the prey we can eat?” 

“And monsters, and Twolegs, and dogs,” his mate, 
Tinycloud, reminded him. “Your bees are swarming if 
you think this is where StarClan intended us to be.” 

“It’s still a bad time to go,” Birdwing pointed out. 
“Leaf-bare will be on us soon, and we don’t even 
know where we’re going.” 

“And worse things might happen if we stay,” 


Leafstar responded. “My mind is made up. Our destiny 
has always been to be reunited with the other Clans. I 
am leaving in the morning, with any cats who want to 
come with me.” 

An uncomfortable silence fell at the Clan leader’s 
words. Clovertail voiced what Hawkwing—and, he 
guessed, the rest of his Clan—was thinking. 

“If we don’t follow our leader, then it’s the end of 
SkyClan.” 

“It might be the end of us anyway,” Sagenose 
pointed out. “Who knows what dangers might be 
waiting for us out there?” 

“We’ve had our fair share of danger,” Rileypool 
agreed. “But if any cats stay here, they won't be part 
of our Clan anymore. Do you want to be a kittypet, 
Sagenose?” 

The older warrior’s only reply was an irritated lash 
of his tail. 

“Of course we're coming with you, Leafstar,” 
Waspwhisker declared in a tone that didn’t invite 
argument. 

A murmur of agreement rose from the other cats, 
and Hawkwing sensed relief that the Clan deputy had 


made the decision for them. Some of them, like 
Tinycloud and Rileypool, even looked excited at the 
thought of seeking out other Clan cats. 

Reedkit let out a disappointed wail. “But why can’t 
we stay?” she whined. “I like it here by the lake.” 

Hawkwing, sitting with Plumwillow and the kits, 
bent his head and touched his nose to hers. “Don’t 
worry,” he mewed. “We’ll live by a new lake someday. 
One with fewer Twolegs.” 

“But I heard that Twolegs like to leave out nice 
food for cats,” Finkit piped up. 

Hawkwing exchanged a concerned glance with 
Plumwillow. 

“There'll be plenty of nice food where we're 
going,” Hawkwing reassured Finkit. “And it always 
tastes better if you catch it yourself!” 

“Will you teach us, then?” Dewkit asked eagerly. 
“I won't mind leaving if we can be apprentices and 
you'll be our mentor!” 

Hawkwing gave a mock shudder. “Mentor all 
three of you? Oh, StarClan, no!” 

“Mentors only have one apprentice at a time,” 
Plumwillow mewed briskly. “Besides, you’re too young 


to be apprentices yet. And now it’s time for sleep,” she 
added. “Tomorrow will be a long day.” 

When Hawkwing had helped Plumwillow settle the 
kits in the nursery, he returned to the clearing to see 
Leafstar still sitting on the branch from where she had 
spoken to her Clan. Full darkness had fallen, and most 
of the other cats had already retreated to their dens. 

“Leafstar, are you all right?” Hawkwing asked, 
leaping up to sit on the branch beside her. 

Leafstar’s gaze was fixed on the lake, just visible 
through the trees, her eyes luminous pools of regret. 
Hawkwing’s pelt warmed with the depth of his respect 
for her, with a twinge of sadness as he recognized the 
massive burden of leadership resting on her shoulders 
in these dark times. 

Being Clan leader must be like being a parent 
to all the cats in the Clan. 

“I'm going to miss this place,” Leafstar murmured. 
“I wanted so much for it to be our home forever. But it 
isn’t.” 

Hawkwing nodded in agreement. “Perhaps 
something even better is waiting for us,” he suggested. 

“T hope so,” Leafstar responded. 


But Hawkwing could see the doubt in her eyes. 


Hawkwing padded through deep woodland, where 
sunlight slanting through the branches dappled the 
ground with golden light. Though he didn’t turn his 
head to see her, he could feel Pebbleshine’s pelt 
brushing his, and smell her sweet scent. He felt filled 
up with happiness like a pool after heavy rain. 

A sudden throaty roar disturbed Hawkwing’s 
contentment. He glanced around sharply, half 
expecting to see a lion or a tiger from one of the 
elders’ nursery tales. As he looked, the trees seemed 
to grow dim, their outlines blurred, and there was no 
trace of Pebbleshine. 

“Don’t go!” he yowled. 

The roaring grew louder, and now Hawkwing 
recognized the sound of a monster. But there 
shouldnt be monsters here! he thought, his pelt 
prickling with the first onset of panic. 

Hawkwing jerked awake, and raised his head to 
see dawn light trickling through the branches that 
sheltered the warriors’ den, and his Clanmates stirring 
around him. The roaring continued, growing louder still. 

I certainly wont miss that! he thought. I wish we 


could find a camp far far away from any 
Thunderpaths, so I never have to hear that sound 
again. 

Then Rileypool poked his head into the den. “Come 
out, quickly!” he meowed urgently. “There are 
Twolegs in the forest!” 

“Then come in here and hide.” Hawkwing’s jaws 
stretched in a massive yawn. “That’s what we usually 
do when Twolegs get too close. Twolegs are too stupid 
to see what’s right in front of them!” 

“No, this is different,’ Rileypool told him, his voice 
tight with tension. “There are too many of them, and 


33 


A yowl from outside interrupted him, followed by 
the heavy pounding of Twoleg paw steps. Hawkwing’s 
neck fur began to bristle in alarm. Cautiously he 
peered out of the den, and cold horror shivered through 
him from ears to tail-tip at what he saw. 

Five Twolegs were tramping into the camp. They 
wore strange coverings on their paws and slick pelts 
the color of dandelions. Even worse, each of them was 
carrying a long stick with something made of interlaced 
tendrils, like a huge cobweb, on the end of it. 


By now Hawkwing’s Clanmates were pressing 
around him, trying to look out and gasping with fear at 
the sight. 

“What are they doing?” Rabbitleap demanded, but 
no cat could answer him. 

As Hawkwing watched, he spotted Fidgetpaw 
emerge from the medicine cat’s den and stand there 
stunned at the invasion. Immediately one of the 
Twolegs swung his stick at Fidgetpaw, then lifted it 
with Fidgetpaw tangled inside the cobweb. The 
medicine cat struggled, but he couldn’t break free. 

Horror crawled like ants through Hawkwing’s pelt 
as he watched. The Twoleg said something to one of 
his companions, and the two of them slapped paws. 
Then the second Twoleg rolled a tiny den into the 
camp, made of thin, shiny sticks. He opened one side, 
and the first Twoleg dumped Fidgetpaw inside. 

“He's trapped!” Hawkwing yowled. 

He hurled himself out of the warriors’ den, his 
claws extended as he raced toward the invading 
Twolegs. His Clanmates poured out after him, snarling 
defiance. 

But suddenly Leafstar was in their midst. “Don’t 


fight!” she ordered. “We can’t win. Run! Meet up in 
the long grass by the lake.” 

“But they have Fidgetpaw!” Hawkwing protested. 

“There’s nothing we can do!” Leafstar snapped 
back at him. “Head for the lake!” 

His heart wrenched at the thought of abandoning 
Fidgetpaw, but Hawkwing had to admit that she was 
right. These Twolegs with their weird pelts and sticks 
were impossible for them to fight. He dodged around 
one of the cobweb-things, then halted as another 
Twoleg swung his stick around and scooped up 
Waspwhisker. 

This cant be happening! he thought as he stared 
at the Clan deputy, who was screeching and fighting in 
vain as the Twoleg carried him over to the shiny den. 

“No!” Plumwillow yowled, giving Hawkwing a 
mighty shove. “Run!” 

Hawkwing pulled himself together. We have to 
save the kits! 

He followed Plumwillow as she gathered her kits 
together. All three of them were staring open-mouthed 
at the Twolegs, as if they couldn't believe what they 
were seeing, or didn’t understand. 


“What are they doing?” Dewkit asked. 

“You can see what they're doing,” Plumwillow 
snapped, giving the little tom a shove. “Now go!” 

Hawkwing helped her push the others along until 
the kits finally realized the danger they were in and 
scurried for the camp entrance. Once in the open they 
began to panic, scattering in three different directions. 

“This way!” Hawkwing called. 

Together with Plumwillow he managed to round up 
the terrified kits and head toward the lake. On the way 
there they spotted more Twolegs standing beside two 
monsters on a small Thunderpath that led through the 
woods and down to the Twoleg dens. As Hawkwing 
and Plumwillow ran past with the kits the Twolegs let 
out a roar and lumbered toward them. 

“Quick! This way!” Hawkwing gasped. 

He veered toward an outcrop of rocks, and spotted 
the entrance to a rabbit burrow half concealed among 
the boulders. He pushed the kits into the opening of the 
burrow, then dived in himself with Plumwillow. 
Hawkwing gestured to the kits to be silent, and they 
crouched there, wide-eyed, listening to the Twolegs 
tramping around the rocky outcrop. 


Finally the heavy paw steps died away; Hawkwing 
peered out cautiously and saw the Twolegs heading 
back toward their monster. 

“Okay,” he whispered. “We can go.” 

Keeping low, their bellies pressed to the ground as 
if they were stalking prey, Hawkwing and Plumwillow 
led the kits toward the lake. Hawkwing’s fur was 
bushed up with fear, and with every paw step he 
expected to see one of the Twolegs’ cobweb-sticks 
swooping down to envelop the kits. 

I cant lose these kits too, he thought, 
remembering the lost Pebbleshine and her litter. / have 
to save them! 

Hawkwing felt as if whole moons were passing as 
they crept along, until finally they made it to the tall 
grass and collapsed there, panting. 

Rileypool and Sagenose had already arrived at the 
meeting-place, their fur bristling and a wild look in their 
eyes. 

“They took Waspwhisker!” Rileypool exclaimed 
disbelievingly. “What will they do with him?” 

“And Fidgetpaw!” Sagenose tore at the grass with 
his claws. “I have to save my kit!” 


Peering out through the long stems, Hawkwing 
saw two Twolegs emerge from the trees, rolling the 
shiny den in front of them, with Fidgetpaw and 
Waspwhisker still trapped inside. The rest of the Clan 
was scattering, all of them making for the long grass, 
with the Twolegs in pursuit. 

Hawkwing watched helplessly as they swung their 
sticks again and trapped Clovertail, then Birdwing, and 
carried the struggling cats over to the monster. 

“Birdwing!” Sagenose howled as he saw his mate 
disappear into the belly of the monster. “Birdwing, not 
you too!” 

Claws of pain gripped Hawkwing’s heart; he knew 
exactly how his Clanmate felt. But he still blocked 
Sagenose’s way as he tried to leap out of hiding and 
follow Birdwing. Sagenose tried to dodge around him, 
and Hawkwing had to dart to the side, anticipating 
which way his Clanmate would move, and stop him 
from charging into danger. 

“No,” he mewed, nose to nose with Sagenose. 
“You can’t help them.” 

“I can at least go with them!” Sagenose panted, 
sliding out his claws to attack Hawkwing. 


“No.” That was Leafstar, appearing through the 
grass stems and resting her tail on Sagenose’s 
shoulder. “SkyClan needs you, Sagenose.” 

“Birdwing and Fidgetpaw need me,” Sagenose 
responded, bunching his muscles and preparing to leap 
out into the open. 

Before he could move, Hawkwing slammed a paw 
down hard on his neck. “Stop that!” he hissed. 
“Leafstar is right. We need you here.” 

For a moment Sagenose writhed in Hawkwing’s 
grip, growling furiously. Then he collapsed with his 
nose on his paws and his eyes closed, not trying to 
fight anymore. 

At last the remaining warriors of SkyClan made it 
to the tall grass, and watched as the Twolegs climbed 
back into the monsters, which awoke with a roar and 
sped along the Thunderpath, heading away from the 
lake. 

“What just happened?” Dewkit asked plaintively. 
“Did they take them to be kittypets?” 

“Maybe,” Leafstar replied, though Hawkwing 
could tell by looking at her that she didn’t believe it. 

I dont believe it, either, he thought. I know 


enough about Twolegs to be sure they dont treat 
their kittypets that way. Our Clanmates are 
prisoners. Horror shivered through his pelt again as he 
added to himself, What do they do to their 
prisoners? 

“They’re gone,” Leafstar meowed when the noise 
of the monsters had died away. Her voice was shaking 
with anger and grief. “The Twolegs are no longer 
willing to live in peace with us. This proves that we’re 
right to leave.” 

“Leave?” Sagenose let out a desperate wail. 
“Surely we can’t leave Birdwing and Fidgetpaw?” 

“And Waspwhisker,” Rabbitleap added. 

“They are already gone,” Leafstar told them 
gently. “Monsters can travel very far, very fast. 
Remember what happened to Pebbleshine!” As she 
spoke she cast an embarrassed glance at Hawkwing, 
as if she was sorry to have mentioned the name of his 
lost mate. Hawkwing didn’t need the reminder. He 
was already reliving that terrible day. “She got trapped 
inside a monster that ran off with her. She never came 
back,” Leafstar finished. 

Rileypool let out a wail. “Are we going to lose all 


our Clanmates?” 

“I know you're hurting,” Leafstar meowed, “but 
you must be quiet. The Twolegs might hear you. And 
we must all be brave,” she continued, gazing around at 
her Clan. “We have lost two special cats: our medicine 
cat, Fidgetpaw, and our deputy, Waspwhisker. We can 
only pray to StarClan to send Echosong back to us, but 
we can and will have another deputy.” 

A stir of surprise traveled through the remaining 
cats of SkyClan, as if none of them had thought of 
replacing Waspwhisker so quickly. But it has to be 
done, Hawkwing thought regretfully. / wonder who 
Leafstar will choose. 

Leafstar stood silent for a few heartbeats, gazing 
down at her paws, as if she was deep in thought. Then 
she raised her head again. “I speak these words before 
StarClan,” she announced, “that the spirits of our 
warrior ancestors may hear and approve my choice. 
Hawkwing will be the new deputy of SkyClan.” 

Hawkwing stared at his Clan leader, stunned. He 
couldn’t have been more astonished if the ground had 
opened up and swallowed him. “Me?” he gasped. “But 
L> 


“You, Hawkwing,” Leafstar interrupted him. “I can 
think of no cat better suited to help me lead our Clan 
through these dark days.” 

Hawkwing couldn’t agree with her. J failed my 
Clan . . . I’ve failed time and time again! I couldnt 
even keep my apprentice. But as he gazed around at 
his Clanmates, saw their eyes shining and heard their 
approving murmurs, he realized with even more 
amazement that they wanted him to be their deputy. 

“Yow ll do a marvelous job,” Firefern assured him. 
“Remember how you saved the whole Clan back in the 
Twolegplace.” 

Plumwillow’s gaze was warm as she turned to 
him. “Leafstar couldn't have made a better choice.” 

“That's right,” Sparrowpelt added. “You’ll be a 
great deputy, just like your father was.” 

Hawkwing couldn't agree with that. PU never be 
as good as Sharpclaw. But his Clanmates were 
murmuring their agreement with Sparrowpelt’s words. 
Even though it was too dangerous for them to chant his 
name, he couldn’t have hoped for a better sign of their 
support. 

“Then . . . thank you, Leafstar,’ Hawkwing 


stammered, his voice hoarse. “I swear that I will be 
loyal to SkyClan, and spend my last drop of blood 
defending it.” 

Leafstar dipped her head. “And now we must go,” 
she meowed. “It is a difficult journey ahead of us, but 
we must make it, to have any chance of saving our 
Clan.” 

With a wave of her tail she ventured out of the 
long grass, checked that no more Twolegs were 
lurking, then led the way back into the trees in the 
direction Echosong had gone, a little more than two 
moons ago. Her Clan followed. 

Hawkwing, his mind still reeling, took up a position 
in the rear. At the edge of the woods he halted and 
took a last look back at the lake. We should never 
have stayed here, he reflected. Echosong was right. 

Then with a deep breath he turned and padded into 
the shadows after Leafstar and the tattered remnants 
of his Clan. 





CHAPTER 33 
+ 


Hawkwing sat on a rock overlooking a shallow 
stream bubbling over stones, and surveyed his Clan's 
temporary camp. A moon and a half had passed since 
they left the lake, and though they thought they were 
going in the direction they had seen Echosong take 
when she left, they had seen no sign of her or the cats 
who went with her. 

Every cat was weary of traveling, growing thinner 
as the weather became colder and prey scarcer. 
Finally Leafstar had decided to camp here, where the 
ground had fallen away into rocky hollows that offered 
at least a little shelter. But the landscape that 
surrounded them was bleak, with only a few wind- 
twisted trees; Hawkwing's heart sank right down to his 
paws at the thought of being caught here by leaf-bare. 

Wind buffeted his fur as he sat on watch and let 
his mind travel back to the beginning of their new 
journey, just after Leafstar had made him deputy. The 
Clan had sheltered for the night in a copse on the side 
of a hill, where wind rustled the branches of the trees 


and sent clouds scudding across the sky. Unable to 
sleep, Hawkwing had padded out of his makeshift den 
and crouched among the roots of an oak tree, watching 
the sky. Soon, Leafstar had slipped through the 
shadows to join him. 

“What convinced me to make you deputy,” the 
Clan leader had meowed, “wasn’t anything to do with 
what happened in the Twolegplace. It was 
remembering when you were brave enough to tell me 
that you thought we should leave the lake. That 
showed me that you have grown, and learned to put 
the needs of your Clan above your own.” 

Hawkwing had been flattered that Leafstar 
thought so, but privately he wasn’t sure that he agreed. 
He still felt that he didn’t deserve to be deputy. He had 
begun to grow used to his duties, though he found it 
strange to have his Clanmates defer to him and see the 
look of respect in their eyes. “Pl do my best, 
Leafstar,’ he had promised. “But if Waspwhisker 
should come back to us, PI step down.” 

“That's in the paws of StarClan,” Leafstar had 
murmured, though Hawkwing could tell that she had no 
hope of the former deputy returning. 


Now he faced his secret fears that there wouldn’t 
be a Clan for much longer. They had wandered 
through woodland, across open ground, keeping well 
clear of Twolegplaces, and if Leafstar had a purpose in 
the path she chose, Hawkwing didn’t know what it 
was. Now that they had no medicine cat, they had no 
visions from StarClan to guide them. All they had was 
blind faith, and the hope of finding either Echosong or 
the lake she had dreamed of, where the Clan cats 
lived. 

We could be traveling in entirely the wrong 
direction, Hawkwing thought despairingly. And how 
many more cats can we lose before SkyClan is gone 
forever? Will Twolegs take more of us, like they 
took Waspwhisker and the others? 

Hawkwing was distracted from these dark 
thoughts by the appearance of Macgyver, who 
emerged from under a rocky overhang where he had 
made his den. 

There isnt even room here to make a proper 
warriors’ den we can all share, Hawkwing thought. 
We have to split up. That's not right for a Clan 
camp. 


Macgyver padded over to Hawkwing, swaying a 
little on his paws. 

“T’m hungry,” he announced. “I’m going hunting.” 

Hawkwing gave a disapproving twitch of his 
whiskers. “The hunting patrols have already gone out,” 
he mewed. “You said you were a bit tired, so I told you 
to get some rest.” 

“Well, I feel better now,” Macgyver told him. “And 
Pm starving! So I’m going hunting.” 

Hawkwing leaped down from his rock and leaned 
in closer to the black-and-white tom. “Are you okay?” 
he asked. 

Macgyver looked up at him, his eyes strangely 
blurred. “Never better,” he muttered, and folded up to 
collapse at Hawkwing’s paws. 

“Macgyver!” Hawkwing gasped, appalled. He 
bent over his Clanmate, prodding him in a desperate 
attempt to rouse him. Macgyver only grunted, but at 
least that proved he was still alive. 

Instinctively Hawkwing looked around for a 
medicine cat, but he realized in frustration that SkyClan 
didn’t have one anymore. He raised his voice in a 
yowl. “Leafstar!” 


“Tansy is for fever, I think,’ Hawkwing mewed 
uncertainly. 

“No, it’s borage,” Firefern argued. “And there's a 
clump of it right there.” She pomted upward with her 
tail to where plants tumbled from the lip of the bluff 
above the rocky hollow. 

Two sunrises had passed since Macgyver had 
collapsed, and since then Blossomheart and Rileypool 
had succumbed to the same mysterious illness. All 
three cats lay together in a nest of moss and dried 
grass, curled up and seemingly unaware of anything 
that went on around them. Their pelts gave off a dry 
heat, though they still shivered with cold, even huddled 
together for warmth in thick bedding. 

Hawkwing fluffed up his pelt against the stiff 
breeze that probed into it with claws of cold. The sky 
was gray, the bulging clouds getting ready to release 
their rain. Leaf-bare is almost on us, he thought, and 
thats only going to make it harder for any cat who 
falls ill. 

“Even if you’re right, it’s not just fever,” 
Hawkwing pomted out to Firefern. “They have 
bellyache as well, and you need juniper or watermint 


for that.” 

“Well, we dont have any juniper or watermint!” 
Firefern snapped. “And we do have borage.” 

“And what good will that do, if it’s the wrong 
herb?” Hawkwing felt the heat of anger spreading 
through his pelt. “Firefern, are you completely mouse- 
brained?” 

The ginger she-cat stared at him, shocked into 
silence. Hawkwing instantly realized how unfair he 
was being, to take his frustration out on a cat who was 
only trying to help. 

“Pm sorry,” he meowed, feeling close to his 
breaking point. What right have I to tell Firefern 
she’s wrong when I havent the faintest idea which 
are the right herbs? We’re all just guessing. It’s 
hopeless, when we don t have a medicine cat. 

“Its okay, Hawkwing,” Firefern responded. “I 
know how you feel And look—even if the borage 
doesn’t help, it can’t do any harm, right? I’m going to 
fetch some.” 

While Firefern leaped nimbly up the rocks, 
Hawkwing gazed down at the three sick cats. Though 
Macgyver had been the first to get sick, Rileypool 


seemed to be the weakest; unconscious most of the 
time, and finding it difficult to eat even if some cat 
chewed his food up for him. 

Hawkwing could hardly bear to look at 
Blossomheart, his bright, brave sister, lying there so 
limp and still. Oh, StarClan, after all the cats I’ve 
lost, I can’t lose the only littermate I have left! 

Firefern returned clutching some stems of borage 
in her jaws and started chewing them to a pulp. “Tf 
only we knew what this illness is,’ she mumbled 
around a mouthful. 

“Well, Macgyver admitted he was so hungry he ate 
some crow-food,” Hawkwing mused. “That might 
have caused it. And the others caught whatever it is 
from him, I guess. But that doesn’t help.” 

“No,” Firefern agreed. “The only thing that will 
help is to find Echosong.” 

She prodded Macgyver to rouse him and began 
pushing some of the pulped borage into his mouth. 
Macgyver lapped at it, muttered something inaudible, 
and lapsed back into unconsciousness. 

“Hawkwing!” A cry sounded from across the 
camp. 


Hawkwing whipped around to see Plumwillow 
heading toward him, supporting Finkit, who tottered 
along beside her on uncertain paws. Sagenose was 
helping to steady him on the other side; Dewkit and 
Reedkit followed, their eyes wide and scared. 

“Finkit has the sickness!” Plumwillow wailed. 

Hawkwing felt as if a dark fog had descended on 
him, blotting out the last traces of light and hope. The 
fear and tension that he felt were like claws in his 
belly, tearing him apart. Not Finkit! 

“He was so good yesterday, soaking moss and 
fetching it so the sick cats could drink,’ Plumwillow 
went on as she and Finkit reached Hawkwing’s side. 
“But I should have kept him away from them!” 

“Every cat needs to keep away from them.” 
Firefern looked up from treating the other patients. 
“Except for you and me, Hawkwing. We’d better 
make that a rule. Come on, Finkit,” she added, “eat 
some of this nice borage.” 

“My belly aches,” Finkit whimpered, but he bent 
his head and ate the borage without protesting. 

Firefern nudged him into the nest with the others, 
and Blossomheart stirred slightly, wrapped her tail 


around him, and drew him closer. 

‘TIl stay and look after him,” Plumwillow mewed. 

Hawkwing stepped forward to block her with his 
tail. “No,” he told her forcefully. “You have to take 
care of your other kits.” 

Plumwillow stared down at Finkit, then glanced 
over her shoulder at Reedkit and Dewkit. The anguish 
in her eyes told Hawkwing how she was torn between 
them. 

“Reedkit and Dewkit need you,’ he meowed 
gently. ‘TIl do the best I can for Finkit. You do trust 
me, don’t you, Plumwillow?” 

Plumwillow locked her gaze with his for a 
heartbeat, then dipped her head. “Yes, I do,” she 
whispered. “But, oh, Hawkwing, you have to save 
him!” 

Hawkwing wished he could promise her that Finkit 
would live, but he couldn’t lie to her. They didn’t know 
what the sickness was, and that made it nearly 
impossible to cure. He could see gratitude and grief in 
Plumwillow’s eyes as she turned away, gathered her 
other kits closer with a sweep of her tail, and headed 
back to the crevice in the rocks where she had set up 


her nursery. 

I can t promise anything. But I'll do everything I 
possibly can to save Finkit! 

Hawkwing watched Plumwillow go, then spotted 
movement downstream: Leafstar was returning at the 
head of the hunting patrol that had gone out earlier. 
Their paw steps listless, their tails drooping with 
discouragement, the cats carried their prey over to the 
fresh-kill pile. 

Such meager pickings! Hawkwing thought. 
That'll never keep the Clan alive. 

Leafstar paused for a moment, gazing down 
regretfully at the scanty pile, then seemed to gather 
herself and padded over to the nest where the sick 
cats lay. 

“How are they—” she began, then broke off as 
she saw that Finkit had jomed them. “Oh, no. Where is 
it all gomg to end?” 

“We’re doing the best we can,” Firefern mewed. 

Sagenose, who had stood by in silence all this time, 
turned to gaze at the ginger she-cat; Hawkwing 
thought his eyes looked blank and dead. “You know 
you're likely to catch it, right?” 


“Tell me something I dont know,’ Firefern 
snapped. 

“Every cat knows it,’ Sagenose meowed. “The 
more you treat the sick cats and get close to them, the 
more likely you are to get sick too.” 

“That may be true,” Hawkwing responded, 
remembering what had happened to Finkit. He was 
nettled by his Clanmate’s defeatist tone, though he 
reminded himself that Sagenose had lost his mate and 
his remaining kits by the lake. J know how terrible 
that must have been. “But medicine cats always treat 
the sick, no matter what they’re risking,” he finished. 

Sagenose turned that blank, stone-cold stare on 
Hawkwing. “Right. But you and Firefern aren’t 
medicine cats. None of us are. If we were, we might 
have some chance of curing the sick cats. Instead, 
we'll probably all get it, eventually.” 

Leafstar’s shoulder fur had begun to bristle as 
Sagenose spoke. “What are you saying?” she 
demanded with a lash of her tail. 

“I'm just pointing out that we have a choice here,” 
Sagenose retorted. 

“And what is that choice?” Leafstar hissed. 


“We could split up,” Sagenose replied. “Or send a 
group of cats to find Echosong.” 

Leafstar’s lips drew back in the beginning of a 
snarl. “And just where do you suggest we do that?” 
she asked. 

“T don’t know,” Sagenose admitted. “But a group 
of healthy cats moving around would have a better 
chance than we will if we just sit here waiting to die.” 

Leafstar’s anger faded and her eyes were full of 
pain as she gazed at Hawkwing. “No,” she meowed. 
“We will stay together. There are so few of us now. 
And isn’t this what defines a Clan: that they stay 
together, even when things are hard? We have to 
believe that things will get better. We have to believe 
we will survive this. We have no choice, Sagenose!” 

With that, she turned and stalked away. His gaze 
following her, Hawkwing tried not to let his misgivings 
show, for the sake of his Clan. But he couldn’t be sure 
that they would survive this new challenge. 


Two sunrises later, gazing down at the nest where 
the sick cats lay, Hawkwing was even less certain. 
True to Sagenose’s prediction, Firefern too had fallen 
ill, the disease attacking her so fiercely that her paw 


steps were already leading her toward StarClan. 

She exhausted herself helping the others, 
Hawkwing thought, and now she hasnt the strength 
to fight the sickness. 

The other sick cats were no better. Rileypool 
seemed barely alive; Hawkwing had to watch carefully 
to see the faint rising and falling of his chest. He 
couldn’t eat anymore, or even lap at soaked moss for a 
drink. 

“Come on, Finki,” Hawkwing murmured 
encouragingly. “Look, I’ve some lovely mouse for 
you.” 

To his relief, the kit began licking at the mouse. Still 
keeping an eye on him, Hawkwing began to treat the 
others with borage, chewing up the leaves into a pulp 
and crouching beside each of his sick Clanmates until 
they licked it up. As he finished, he realized that 
Leafstar was standing beside him, looking down at the 
nest despairingly. She bent her head and touched her 
nose to Firefern’s shoulder. “Oh, my daughter... ,” 
she whispered. Then she straightened up and gave her 
pelt a shake. “I’ve been thinking about what Sagenose 
said,” she began. “I hate to consider dividing the Clan, 


but I can’t deny it any longer—we could all die of the 
sickness if we stay here together. The best chance we 
have is to split off some healthy cats to go look for 
Echosong.” 

“But what will happen to them?” Hawkwing 
asked, angling his ears toward the sick cats. 

“I will stay with them,” Leafstar replied, her voice 
full of love and sorrow. “They are my cats. I am sworn 
to protect them.” 

Hawkwing stood silent for a moment, hardly able 
to believe that it had come to this, that his Clan leader 
was forced to make these terrible decisions, without 
even StarClan to guide her. It had been so long since 
their warrior ancestors had spoken to them, even 
before Echosong had left. 

I dont know whether I can bear to leave 
Blossomheart, or Finkit. He 5 like my own Kit. 

“You must lead the rest of the Clan,” Leafstar 
continued, as if she knew what Hawkwing was 
thinking. “It's the only chance SkyClan has.” 

“Then we’ll come back if we don’t find Echosong 
within three sunrises,” Hawkwing suggested. 

Leafstar shook her head emphatically. “You can’t 


come back. Not until you find Echosong.” 

Hawkwing felt his throat burn as he had to accept 
his leader’s order—the decree that meant he might 
never see Finkit and Blossomheart again. 

“You must help me convince the others,” Leafstar 
urged him. “It’s SkyClan’s best chance of surviving. 
And when you agreed to be deputy, you agreed to put 
SkyClan first. That’s what we do, Hawkwing. It’s the 
sacrifice we make.” 

Hawkwing dipped his head. “You're right, 
Leafstar. I’Il do as you say.” 

Leafstar leaped up onto a nearby rock and let out a 
yowl. “Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey 
join here for a Clan meeting.” 

The cats of SkyClan began to creep into the open 
from cracks in the rock or tussocks of long grass 
where they had set up their makeshift dens. Pain 
gripped Hawkwing’s heart at the sight of them: their 
ribs showing beneath tattered pelts, their eyes dull with 
despair. Prey had been scarce ever since they'd left 
the lake, and they were exhausted from constant 
travel. Hawkwing could see every one of Sagenose’s 
ribs, while Tinycloud’s pelt looked as if she hadn’t 


groomed herself in a moon. Dewkit and Reedkit, who 
had once been strong and sturdy, looked so frail that a 
puff of wind could have blown them away. 

Every cat gathered around Leafstar and waited in 
silence to hear what she would say. 

“Cats of SkyClan,” the Clan leader began, “you all 
know how desperate our plight is. Our Clanmates will 
die unless we can find Echosong, and if we stay here, 
sooner or later we will all catch the same sickness.” 

“What?” Plumwillow let out a cry of disbelief, her 
burning gaze fixed on Leafstar. “You can’t mean you 
want the rest of us to leave our Clanmates?” 

Leafstar returned Plumwillow’s gaze solemnly. She 
didn’t answer the warrior’s question, but Hawkwing 
heard Plumwillow gasp as the truth sank in. 

“You expect me to leave my own kit?” 

Before Leafstar could respond, Hawkwing’s ears 
pricked at the sound of a cat approaching. 

Please, not an attack. StarClan, not now. The 
wind was blowing away from SkyClan, so there was 
no scent to tell him what might be approaching. He slid 
out his claws. 

“Hello?” A familiar voice reached Hawkwing’s 


ears. 

Oh, StarClan, I cant believe it! I think Pl die 
of relief! 

Hawkwing felt his entire body go slack. His 
Clanmates too were stirring around him, looking for the 
source of the sound, sudden hope in their eyes. 

A silver tabby she-cat stepped out from among the 
trees, with two other cats trailing behind her. 
Hawkwing let out a triumphant yowl of welcome. Oh, 
StarClan, thank you! 

“Echosong!” 





CHAPTER 34 
+ 


The SkyClan medicine cat splashed through the 
stream, followed by Bellaleaf and Harrybrook, and 
padded up to her Clanmates. She, too, was thinner than 
when Hawkwing had last seen her, but her eyes were 
bright, and she looked strong. The healthy cats all 
crowded around her enthusiastically, purrmg and 
brushing their pelts against hers. 

“Greetings, Echosong!” 

“Welcome back!” 

“Thank StarClan you found us!” 

Hawkwing stared at Echosong, wondering if he 
was having some kind of weird waking dream. After 
all the terrible things that have happened, I cant 
believe Echosong would return to us just when we 
need her most! Then he reflected that if this wasn’t 
real, all his Clanmates must be having the same dream. 
It must be true! Echosong is really here! 

“But how did you find us?” Leafstar asked, 
struggling through the crowd to Echosong’s side. 
“We”ve been looking for you for at least a moon.” 


Echosong’s green eyes were brilliant as she 
replied. “It was easy! StarClan showed me where to 
go.” 

Warmth spread through Hawkwing’s pelt, as if 
sunlight had broken through the storm-laden clouds 
overhead. Then StarClan hasn’t abandoned us! 

“I had a dream,” Echosong continued. “A brown 
tabby tom spoke to me . . . I think he must be a 
medicine cat from the first SkyClan. He told me that 
my Clan had need of me, and that he would guide my 
paw steps.” 

“We certainly do need you,” Leafstar responded. 
“We have sick cats, and we don’t know what to do for 
them without a medicine cat.” 

“But you have Fidgetpaw. . . .” Echosong glanced 
around, her eyes puzzled. “Wait . . . no! Where is he?” 

Several cats chimed in, tellng Echosong how 
Fidgetpaw and more of their Clanmates had been 
trapped beside the lake, by the Twolegs with the weird 
cobweb-things on sticks. Hawkwing shuddered at the 
memory, imagining for a moment that he could still 
hear the harsh voices of the Twolegs and the terrified 
wails of his lost Clanmates. 


“That's terrible!” Echosong exclaimed. “And our 
Clan deputy, too.” 

“Yes, Hawkwing is deputy now,” Leafstar told her. 

Echosong shot Hawkwing a pleased look. “Well, 
well. I can see I’ve a lot to catch up on,” she mewed. 
“But first, show me the sick cats.” 

Hawkwing led Echosong to the nest where the 
sick cats lay. Harrybrook and Bellaleaf still followed 
her, and Bellaleaf let out a piercing wail as she saw her 
brother Rileypool curled up motionless among the moss 
and leaves. “No! He’s dead!” 

Echosong held her paw close to Rileypool’s nose, 
and Hawkwing saw the faint ruffle of her fur that 
showed Rileypool still breathed. 

“He lives,” Echosong said in a grave voice, “but 
barely.” 

“Oh, thank StarClan! Please help him!” Bellaleaf 
begged. 

“Pm going to do just that,” Echosong reassured 
her. “Hawkwing, what have you done so far?” 

“We gave them borage,’ Hawkwing replied, 
pointing with his tail to a heap of the herb beside the 
nest. “That's right, for fever, isn’t it?” 


“Yes, it would be right, if that was borage.” 
Echosong turned over a few of the stems with one 
paw. “But it’s not, it’s comfrey.” 

Hawkwing felt as if all the blood was draining from 
his heart, and he saw black sparkles in the sky. 
“StarClan, no!” he gasped. “Have I been poisoning 
them?” Its like everything has to go wrong for 
SkyClan, even when we try our best, he thought, his 
pelt growing hot with guilt. 

Echosong shook her head. “No, we use a poultice 
of comfrey root for wounds,” she explained. “The 
leaves aren’t good for much, that I know of, but they 
wouldn’t do any harm. But now I need to find some 
real borage.” 

Hawkwing sent Sparrowpelt and Tinycloud with 
Echosong into the trees in case of trouble. The patrol 
returned quickly, Echosong carrying a bunch of herbs 
in her jaws. 

“We’re lucky that so far there hasn’t been a frost,” 
she mewed as she dropped the stems beside the sick 
cats’ nest. “That kills off herbs quicker than anything.” 

Hawkwing bent his head to examine the herbs 
Echosong had brought. He saw that the leaves of 


borage looked very much like comfrey, but the scent 
was quite different. A medicine cat would have 
known that. 

Echosong chewed up the leaves and managed to 
force the pulp between the sick cats’ jaws. Hawkwing 
watched intently, hoping for some sign of improvement, 
even though he knew it was far too soon to expect any 
change. 

“They will get better, won’t they?” Bellaleaf 
asked; she had stayed crouched beside her brother 
ever since she returned. 

“That’s in the paws of StarClan,’ Echosong 
replied, but then added, “I’ve seen cats recover from 
worse illness than this.” 

“I wish there was something I could do,” Bellaleaf 
meowed. 

“There is,” Hawkwing told her briskly. “Lead a 
hunting patrol, and bring back some prey for them 
when they wake up.” 

Bellaleaf glanced at Rileypool, clearly reluctant to 
leave him, then rose to her paws. “Right away, 
Hawkwing. I’ ll find some other cats.” 

“You're right to keep her busy,” Echosong mewed 


to Hawkwing when Bellaleaf had gone. “I wouldn’t 
say this in front of her, but I’m not hopeful for 
Rileypool. Firefern, too. They’re both very far gone.” 

A heavy knot of dread gathered in Hawkwing’s 
belly as he braced himself to ask the next question. 
“And Finkit?” 

Echosong sighed, looking at the kit’s frail chest as 
it rose and fell. “It’s hard to say. He has youth on his 
side. But he’s so tiny. . . .” 

Hawkwing felt like his heart was being squeezed 
so tightly it might burst. He had to look away. 

Please, StarClan, if anything I’ve ever done 
has pleased you . . . please, spare that kit. 


The last warriors of StarClan were fading from the 
sky as the dawn light strengthened. In the middle of 
the rocky hollow the cats of SkyClan crouched around 
the bodies of their Clanmates, stiff and cold in death, 
with frost sparkling in their fur. 

Hawkwing tried to find some consolation in looking 
at the cats who had survived the sickness. Macgyver 
and Blossomheart were out of danger, though still 
weak and shaky. And Finkit looked desperately small 
and skinny beside his robust littermates, but he was 


gaining strength every day. A small spark of joy kindled 
inside Hawkwing as he remembered the moment when 
Finkit had opened his eyes, wailing plaintively for his 
mother and complaining about how hungry he was. 

But his joy was quenched when he looked at the 
bodies of Rileypool and Firefern, who were lost to the 
illness. They'll never hunt again, never have an 
apprentice to mentor, never take a mate or have 
kits.... 

As the sky grew flushed with rose and amber 
where the sun would rise, Echosong rose to her paws 
and took a few paces forward to stand beside her dead 
Clanmates. “May StarClan light your path, Firefern 
and Rileypool” she mewed, using the words which 
medicine cats had spoken beside the dead for seasons 
upon seasons. “May you find good hunting, swift 
running, and shelter when you sleep.” 

Her words signaled the end of the vigil. Cats began 
to rise and stretch the stiffness out of their muscles. 
With no elders remaining in the Clan, Hawkwing was 
wondering who to choose to take care of the burial, 
when Leafstar also rose and came to stand beside 
Echosong. 


“We have lost two valuable Clanmates,” she 
began, then stopped as her voice quivered on the last 
few words. 

Hawkwing understood how difficult this was for 
his Clan leader. It was her duty to inspire her Clan, and 
yet she was also grieving as a mother. Only 
Harrybrook remained of the kits she and Billystorm 
had together, and Billystorm himself was gone, buried 
in a remote place where Leafstar would never set 
paw. 

The Clan leader took several deep breaths and 
gave her pelt a shake. “Yet it’s important that we go on 
believing in our Clan,” she went on, in command of 
herself again. “Rileypool and Firefern believed, and I 
believe, that StarClan will guide us to a brighter 
future.” 

‘Td like to believe that too.” Plumwillow spoke up 
from where she sat beside her kits. “But if StarClan 
wants to guide us, why hasn’t Echosong had another 
vision?” 

It was Echosong who replied. “I had the dream 
that led me back to you,” she pointed out. “And that 
means that StarClan has broken their silence.” 


“Then why hasn’t StarClan just told you where to 
find the lake and the other Clans?” Sagenose 
challenged her. 

“Visions don’t work like that,” Echosong told him, 
a hint of regret in her voice. “StarClan shows me what 
it wants to show, when it wants to show me. We must 
all have faith.” 

“We’ve had faith ever since we were driven out of 
the gorge,” Plumwillow meowed bitterly. “If StarClan 
cares for us, surely they would have given us some 
better guidance by now? We’ve been tramping through 
barren territory for so long!” She let out a 
contemptuous snort. “Does StarClan enjoy seeing us 
suffer like this? How can we still be loyal to them?” 

Gasps of dismay came from some of her 
Clanmates, but others were nodding and murmuring 
agreement. 

“You mustn’t talk like that,” Hawkwing protested. 

“Yes, StarClan must have a reason for what they 
tell us—or don’t tell us,” Echosong agreed. 

“Maybe their ‘reason’ is that they've forgotten 
us!” Plumwillow snapped. “Wouldn’t we all live better 
lives if we gave up the idea of finding the lake? We’ve 


had no home for so long—are we truly a Clan 
anymore, or just a tattered, undernourished group of 
rogues?” 

Yowls of protest arose from some of the cats 
around her, though Hawkwing could see that others 
stil agreed with Plumwillow. And I’m trying 
desperately hard not to be one of them. 

“We are and always will be a Clan.” Leafstar’s 
voice cut through the noise. “I will never lose faith that 
eventually we will find the other Clans and the home 
where we are meant to live.” 

“Leafstar is right,’ Echosong added. “StarClan has 
sent me one dream, and I know others will follow.” 

“We might wait for that until our tails drop off!” 
Sagenose huffed. 

Hawkwing rose to stand beside Leafstar and 
Echosong. “Rogue cats only look out for themselves,” 
he pointed out. “Clan cats help each other, and that’s 
what we’ve been doing all along. Of course we’re a 
Clan, and we must go on believing there are better 
times ahead.” 

Plumwillow gave him a furious glare. “You’ve got 
bees in your brain, Hawkwing!” 


I can understand why shes angry with me, 
Hawkwing thought. And in a way she’s right. I wish 1 
didn t see so much truth in her words. 

Even though Hawkwing knew he had to support 
his Clan leader and his medicine cat, he was inwardly 
torn. He could easily imagine the kind of life he could 
have with Plumwillow and her kits if they abandoned 
the rest of the Clan and found a cozy cave, or perhaps 
a barn like the one where Barley lived. If they had only 
themselves to feed, they would all get more prey. 

Plumwillow has never been my mate, but it’s 
been so long now since Sandynose and 
Pebbleshine disappeared. . . . Maybe she and l 
could be together, someday. 

Hawkwing pushed away the enticing vision. No, 
my first duty is to my Clan. 

While Hawkwing was thinking, the argument had 
raged on around him. He began to realize that it didn’t 
matter what he or any cat said: Most of his Clanmates 
were too beaten down by the onset of leaf-bare, the 
endless wandering, the losses of their Clanmates, and 
the silence from StarClan to have any hope for the 
future. 


“SkyClan is dead,” Plumwillow stated flatly. “It has 
been, really, ever since we were driven out of the 
gorge. Are we trying to revive something we should 
have given up on long ago?” She lashed her tail; her 
kits were staring up at her with huge, bewildered eyes. 
“Nothing lasts forever,’ she continued. “The original 
SkyClan died out, too.” 

Hawkwing could see Leafstar’s anguish in her 
eyes and the drooping of her shoulders. For a few 
moments she was silent, and the conflicting voices died 
away as every cat turned to her. 

“I can’t hold cats hostage if they want to leave.” 
Leafstar’s words were forced out. “But let us not 
decide while tempers are high and the bodies of our 
Clanmates lie beside us. Tomorrow I will call a Clan 
meeting and we will discuss this again.” 

To Hawkwing’s relief, murmurs of agreement met 
his leader’s suggestion. Even Plumwillow had nothing 
more to Say. 

Hawkwing glanced around the group of cats and 
beckoned with his tail to Sparrowpelt, Sagenose, 
Bellaleaf, and Rabbitleap. “Please carry Firefern and 
Rileypool out of camp and bury them,” he directed. 


He watched the cats he had chosen carefully lift 
the bodies of their Clanmates and bear them away, 
padding downstream to where a hawthorn bush hung 
over the water. The rest of the cats began to disperse. 
Clan life continued on, but Hawkwing’s heart was still 
heavy. 

Is this the end of SkyClan? 


“Great StarClan, you’re alive!” 

The joyful yowl roused Hawkwing from sleep. The 
pale sun of leaf-bare was shining through the branches 
of the thornbush where he had made his den, and there 
was a stir of movement outside in the camp. He 
sprang to his paws, scattering moss from his nest. 

Its so late . . . I should have sent out the 
patrols! And what is going on out there? 

Hawkwing bounded out into the camp and halted 
as if he had slammed into a tree. It can t be! But... 

Across the rocky hollow, Sandynose was standing 
just outside the nursery, with Plumwillow beside him, 
purring ecstatically. The two cats had twined their tails 
together, and Sandynose was covering Plumwillow’s 
head with loving licks. 

A rush of emotion shook Hawkwing like a leaf in a 


gale. He felt wonder and relief that Sandynose was 
still alive, and had found his Clan again after so long, 
but warring with that was grief at the way Plumwillow 
was greeting him so happily. 

Hawkwing stood still for a few heartbeats, 
grappling with the hurt he felt at being forgotten. Since 
the kits had been born, Plumwillow had often turned to 
him for advice or support, but she had never looked at 
him with that blaze of happiness in her eyes. Of 
course she didnt, Hawkwing thought to himself, 
feeling foolish, Sandynose is her real mate. Her 
Pebbleshine. 

At the thought of his own mate, his breath caught. 
Then he asked himself how he would react if 
Pebbleshine suddenly came back to him, alive. 

Plumwillow rubbed her cheek against Sandynose’s, 
purring loudly enough for Hawkwing to hear it across 
the hollow. 

Yes, it would be just like that. 

“But what happened to you?” Plumwillow asked, 
when their first joyous reunion was over. 

“Fallowfern and I were trapped in a Twoleg den,” 
Sandynose explained. He waved his tail, and for the 


first time Hawkwing noticed that Fallowfern was 
standing a couple of fox-lengths away. “The stupid 
creatures wouldn’t let us out, and it took us a half 
moon or so to outwit them and get away. We went 
back to the gorge, but it was full of rogues, so we went 
into the Twolegplace to find Ebonyclaw. She told us 
you were heading for Barley’s barn, and we decided to 
follow.” 

“Did you get there?” Blossomheart asked urgently 
as more cats crowded up to greet the newcomers. 
“Did you see Cherrytail and Cloudmist?” 

Hawkwing waited tensely for the answer. 

“Yes, and they’re both fine,’ Sandynose replied. 
“Getting nice and fat on Barley’s mice! So then,” he 
continued his story, “Barley showed us the right 
direction, and we’ve been wandering, trying to find 
you, ever since.” 

“But how did you?” Tinycloud asked. “We’ve 
traveled so far!” 

“Finally we came to a lake,” Sandynose replied. 
“The hunting was good, so we settled there for a 
while. We met a kittypet—he said his name was Max 
—and he told us cats had been living there for a while, 


so that gave us hope we would catch up to you sooner 
or later. And now we can’t believe our luck!” he 
finished, with a loving look at his mate. “Plumwillow is 
alive—and our kits. Oh, StarClan, can I meet them?” 

Her eyes shining proudly, Plumwillow turned back 
to the nursery and called to her kits. They emerged 
drowsily into the open, and Hawkwing could recognize 
the uncertainty and confusion in their eyes as they 
gazed up at Sandynose. 

“Kits, this is your father,” Plumwillow explained. 

Reedkit blinked in bewilderment, glancing from 
Sandynose to Hawkwing and back again. “But... I 
thought Hawkwing was our father,” she mewed. 

Plumwillow gave her chest fur a couple of 
embarrassed licks. “No,” she responded. “Hawkwing 
has helped me look after you since you were born, and 
he loves you very much, but he isn’t your father. 
Sandynose is your father.” 

Sandynose turned his head to look at Hawkwing, 
surprised and not entirely pleased. His eyes narrowed 
and the tip of his tail switched. Hawkwing’s pelt grew 
hot as he shared Plumwillow’s embarrassment, and his 
heart began to pound as he wondered what Sandynose 


would say. 

“Tt’s okay,” Plumwillow meowed rapidly, before 
her mate could speak. “Hawkwing helped me when I 
had a hard time at my kitting, and he’s been a huge 
help with the kits ever since. He lost his mate, too, so 
we had lots to talk about— just as friends.” 

Hawkwing nodded, feeling how weird this was, 
and how he wanted to make it absolutely clear to 
Sandynose that he hadn’t stolen his mate. And now, 
I’m never going to. “That's right, just as friends,” he 
confirmed. 

Sandynose relaxed. “Thank you, Hawkwing,” he 
murmured. “I can never repay you for keepmg my 
family safe.” 

“Uh . . . don’t mention it,” Hawkwing responded. 
He was trying hard to hide the hurt he felt, as he 
remembered all the good times he had spent with the 
kits, playing and telling stories and beginning to teach 
them all they would need to know. 

There'll be times like that again. Hawkwmg tried 
to believe that, but he knew he was deceiving himself. 

Watching the kits chatting eagerly with their real 
father, Hawkwing felt the truth settle over him like a 


weight on his chest. /t will never be the same. 

By now all the cats were awake, vying to tell 
Sandynose about their experiences since they left the 
gorge. Hawkwing watched sadly as Fallowfern 
struggled with the news that her mate Waspwhisker 
had been taken by Twolegs at the lake. 

“So what’s next for the Clan?” Sandynose asked 
eventually. “Do you have any idea where you’re 
going?” 

Hawkwing remembered that Sandynose had 
already been lost when Echosong had her vision of the 
Clan living beside a lake. Sandynose’s eyes grew wide 
with wonder as she told him about it. 

“At first, we thought the lake where you met Max 
was the place in my vision,” the medicine cat 
explained. “But we were wrong. Too many Twolegs 
came there in greenleaf, and there was nowhere left 
for cats to live in peace.” 

“So we moved on.” Leafstar took up the story. 
“But we haven’t found the lake of Echosong’s vision, 
and now we've come to a... a place where a 
decision must be made. Some cats are losing hope, and 
there are still moons of leaf-bare to come. Do we keep 


going, or do we split up and admit that SkyClan is... 
dead?” 

“Pm sorry, Leafstar.” Plumwillow turned to her 
Clan leader, hope sparkling in her eyes. “For 
everything I said yesterday. Seeing Sandynose and 
Fallowfern again has given me a change of heart. How 
could we ever have found each other again if we 
weren’t all destined to be together?” 

“That’s right,” Sagenose—who had been almost as 
certain as Plumwillow that SkyClan had no future— 
agreed. “If Sandynose and Fallowfern could find us, 
then there’s hope that the others who stayed by the 
gorge, or even the cats who were lost by the lake, 
might come back to us someday.” He raised his head 
and let out a triumphant yowl. “Long live SkyClan!” 

“Long live SkyClan! Long live SkyClan!” his 
Clanmates chorused around him. Their eyes shone 
with enthusiasm and commitment, and Hawkwing felt 
that he was part of the strong SkyClan that he 
remembered, not a ragtag band of cats who were 
scarcely better than rogues or loners. 

Hawkwing saw the relief that flooded into 
Leafstar’s amber eyes. He shared it, and yet he found 


himself struggling with conflicting emotions. 
I’m glad that SkyClan lives on. But what is my 
place in it now? 


Hawkwing led out a hunting patrol, and returned to 
find Plumwillow and Sandynose playing with the kits 
outside the nursery. Sandynose was tossing a ball of 
moss to each kit in turn, catching it when they batted it 
back to him. 

“Hey, Hawkwing, come and join us!” he called as 
Hawkwing padded past. 

Hawkwing deposited his prey on the fresh-kill pile, 
then bounded over to the nursery. All three kits leaped 
up as he approached, jumping on him with mock 
growls and battering at him with their soft paws. 

“Stinky badger!” Finkit snarled. “Get out of our 
camp!” 

“Yes,” Dewkit added. “Get out or we’ll rip your fur 
off!” 

Hawkwing rolled over and pretended to be 
terrified. He caught a glimpse of Sandynose, who was 
looking a little hurt as he watched the game. 

How would I feel, he asked himself, if I was 
reunited with my kits at this age? I’d be very 


jealous of any cat who raised them in my place. 
“Sorry, kits,” he mewed, rising to his paws and 
shaking them off gently. “I have to go and speak to 
Leafstar.” 
Padding away, he felt as much pain as if they had 
really ripped his fur off, but he knew that he was doing 
the right thing. 


Tiny paws were prodding Hawkwing all over, and 
he blinked himself awake. Shaking off sleep, he 
realized it was still the middle of the night; in the faint 
light of the moon he made out Dewkit, Reedkit, and 
Finkit standing over him. 

“What are you doing here?” he asked. “You should 
be in the nursery with Plumwillow.” 

“He's there,” Reedkit mewed with a disdainful 
flick of her tail. 

“We want you to tell us what's going on,” Finkit 
explained. “You 're our father, not this stranger.” 

“Yeah, can't you send him away?” Dewkit asked. 
“You're Clan deputy; every cat has to do what you tell 
them.” 

Hawkwing stared at them; for a moment he didn’t 
know where to start. “Plumwillow would be very sad if 


I sent Sandynose away,” he began at last. 

Reedkit shrugged. “She didn’t seem like she was 
all that sad before he came back.” 

Hawkwing beckoned the kits to come and snuggle 
down with him in the moss and bracken of his nest, 
away from the frosty night breeze. 

“Now listen,” he meowed. “Plumwillow chose 
Sandynose to be your father, not me, and—” 

“Then she’s a stupid furball!” Finkit interrupted. 

Hawkwing gave him a gentle tap on the nose, his 
claws carefully sheathed. “That’s no way to talk about 
your mother,” he scolded, then went on, “I had a mate, 
too, and she was expecting my kits. Her name was 
Pebbleshine, and I loved her very much. But a Twoleg 
monster carried her away, and I lost her.” 

All three kits’ eyes were round with dismay; 
Hawkwing realized this was the first time they had 
heard the details of what had happened. “That’s 
terrible!” Reedkit breathed out. 

“If I found my kits now,” Hawkwing continued, 
struggling to keep his voice even, “I would want the 
chance to be a father to them, even though nothing 
could make up for the time we lost. Can you 


understand that?” 

“Sort of... ,” Reedkit replied. 

“And Sandynose loves all of you very much, just as 
I would love my kits if I could meet them. But he’s 
only just getting to know you. You have to give him 
time.” 

“But does that mean you cant be our father 
anymore?” Dewkit asked. “Can't we have two?” 

Hawkwing suppressed a mrrow of laughter. “I’m 
not sure,” he meowed, his amusement giving way to 
sadness. “Sandynose is a great cat. I want to give you 
space to get to know him.” 

Reedkit hunched her shoulders with a mutinous 
look. “I don’t want to know him!” 

“That's unkind.” Hawkwing stretched out his tail 
and gave the little she-kit a gentle flick around her 
ears. “You don’t want to hurt Sandynose, do you?” 

“No, but . . .” Reedkit gave her pelt a shake. “It’s 
not fair!” 

“Everything was fine before Sandynose came,” 
Dewkit agreed. “Why does it all have to change?” 

Hawkwing took a deep breath, trying to find some 
way of persuading the kits to trust Sandynose. “Your 


father and mother make each other very happy,” he 
began at last. “And they want you to be part of that 
happiness. You can’t do that if you won’t give 
Sandynose a chance. He’ll be a really good father, I 
know he will.” 

“I guess he’s okay,” Finkit muttered doubtfully. 
“But he’s not you, Hawkwing.” 

Hawkwing felt that love and pain were going to 
tear him apart. “I’m not your father. But that doesn’t 
mean I don’t care for you,” he reassured the kits. ‘P1 
always be here to help you if you ever need me.” 

The three kits exchanged disappointed glances. “T 
guess we can be nicer to Sandynose,” Reedkit mewed. 
“But he doesn’t know about being a badger and all the 
other games you play with us.” 

“Give him time,” Hawkwing responded, touching 
noses with each of the kits in turn. “Now, off you go, 
back to the nursery before Plumwillow misses you.” 

Wriggling out of his nest, the kits scampered off. 
Hawkwing watched them across the camp, his heart 
feeling hollow and empty. 

Will I ever be able to raise kits of my own? 





CHAPTER 35 
+ 


SkyClan spent a few more days in the rocky hollow, 
until the sick cats had recovered enough to travel, and 
Sandynose and Fallowfern had rested from their 
wanderings. Then Leafstar gave the order to move on. 

“You lead us this time,” she meowed to Echosong. 
“StarClan guided your paws to find us; perhaps they”Il 
guide you to the lake and the other Clans.” 

But if that was true, Hawkwing thought, StarClan 
was taking their time about tt. 

A few days later, the Clan emerged from a narrow 
valley to see the dens of a Twolegplace spread out in 
front of them. The air above it looked hazy; a faint, 
harsh tang reached them on the breeze and in the 
distance they could hear the roar of monsters. 

“I don’t want to go that way,” Plumwillow 
meowed. “I don’t want to be near Twolegs ever 
again!” 

Hawkwing, standing beside her near the front of 
the group, rested his tail-tip reassuringly on her 
shoulder. “I know,” he murmured. “But maybe we 


have to.” 

“But we might meet some of those weird yellow 
Twolegs,” Finkit objected. 

“Yes, and they'll scoop us up in their cobweb- 
things and take us away!” Dewkit added, his eyes 
huge with apprehension. 

Hawkwing saw that Leafstar and Echosong were 
deep in conversation, though he was too far away to 
hear what they were saying. A moment later Leafstar 
leaped up onto a nearby rock and raised her voice to 
address the rest of the Clan. 

“Echosong says this is the way we must go,” the 
Clan leader meowed. “But we’ll try to pass alongside 
the Twoleg dens, so we don’t risk meeting many 
Twolegs or monsters.” 

“One Twoleg is too many,” Sagenose muttered. 

“We can travel by night,” Echosong pointed out. 
“That way most of the Twolegs and their monsters will 
be asleep in their nests.” 

“So we”Il rest here until the sun goes down,” 
Leafstar continued. “Every cat should hunt and then 
try to get some sleep.” 

The rocky valley didn’t offer much prey, but 


Hawkwing managed to catch a rabbit and Sandynose 
caught a shrew while Plumwillow found a sheltered 
spot where the kits could take a nap. They all settled 
down together after they had shared the fresh-kill, 
Hawkwing a short distance away. 

He found it impossible to sleep. The lake where 
they were to meet the other Clans had never seemed 
so far away. 

The sky was streaked red with the last traces of 
sunlight when the cats of SkyClan set out again, 
padding cautiously across the open space that 
separated them from the Twolegplace. The acrid tang 
in the air grew stronger and harsh yellow light spilled 
out onto the ground as they approached the dens. 
Monsters roared up and down the Thunderpaths, 
beams from their huge eyes slicing through the 
gathering darkness. 

Leafstar and Hawkwing kept thei Clanmates 
bunched together as they slipped between the dens, 
darting from one clot of shadow to the next, crouching 
in a shivering cluster as monsters or Twolegs passed 
by. Hawkwing couldn’t forget his lost Clanmates’ 
despairing wails as the Twolegs carried them off from 


the lake camp. 

After what seemed like a moon, he felt himself 
relax as he and his Clanmates left the last of the 
Twoleg dens behind and headed out across a stretch of 
open ground covered with coarse grass and scrubby 
bushes. The grass stems were stiff and spiky, furred 
with frost, pricking the cats’ pads as they trudged over 
them. But in spite of the discomfort, and a cold wind 
buffeting ther fur, Hawkwing sensed the easing of 
tension among his Clanmates too. 

The sky was beginning to grow pale with the light 
of dawn, showing a belt of woodland crossing their 
path, the leafless branches outlined against the sky. 

“Trees!”  Sparrowpelt exclaimed. “Thank 
StarClan!” 

Sandynose swiped his tongue around his jaws. 
“And where there are trees, there’ ll be prey.” 

But when the cats arrived under the trees, they 
found that there was little undergrowth, and the scanty 
prey-scents were faint and growing stale. 

“I think all the prey is hiding away down their 
holes,” Tinycloud grumbled. 

Plumwillow managed to track down a mouse, 


which she gave to her kits to share, and Sparrowpelt 
caught a squirrel after a frantic dash through the 
branches, but none of the other cats had any luck. 

Then Hawkwing caught sight of a few rabbit holes 
in a steep bank on the far side of the trees. His 
whiskers twitched at the scent of rabbit. “Look over 
there,” he murmured to Leafstar. “I could go down one 
of those holes and scare the rabbits out.” 

“You will not,” Leafstar replied decisively. “I don’t 
want my deputy stuck down a rabbit hole. If we wait, 
maybe they’ll come out on their own.” 

Hawkwing sighed. “Okay.” 

As the dawn light strengthened, most of the Clan 
settled down at the edge of the wood, their gazes fixed 
on the rabbit holes. Plumwillow and Sandynose kept 
their kits well back among the trees, so the kits 
wouldn't make a noise and scare away the prey. 

Eventually Hawkwing saw a flicker of movement 
at the mouth of one of the burrows, and a rabbit 
hopped into the open. It halted a fox-length away from 
the opening and began to nibble the grass. 

“Wait a few moments,” Hawkwing whispered, his 
jaws beginning to water. “Let it come out a bit further 


before we attack.” 

He had scarcely finished speaking when a flash of 
ginger erupted from the top of the bank. A ginger tom 
leaped straight onto the rabbit, pinning it down with his 
claws and cutting off its squeal with a bite to the neck. 

“Hey!” Macgyver called out, jumping to his paws. 
“That was ours!” 

The ginger tom paused in the act of stooping to 
pick up his prey. “Yours?” he snarled. “My claws. My 
teeth. My prey.” 

Macgyver stalked out into the open, followed by 
the rest of the Clan. “Shove off, flea-pelt!” he 
snapped. 

The ginger tom’s fur bristled and he crouched over 
the body of the rabbit, ready to spring. He didn’t look 
at all intimidated by the number of cats surrounding 
him. 

Hawkwing exchanged an uneasy glance with 
Leafstar. The tom was no full-fed kittypet; he was 
clearly a rogue or a loner, and he looked just as thin 
and desperate as the SkyClan cats. 

“We can’t risk a fight,’ Leafstar murmured. 
“We’ve enough problems without that. Besides, he is 


the one who caught the rabbit.” 

“TI deal with it,’ Hawkwing responded, an idea 
slipping into his mind. 

He padded forward, gesturing with his tail for his 
Clanmates to keep back. “Okay,” he meowed to the 
ginger tom. “You can keep the prey if you”Il answer a 
few questions.” 

The tom narrowed his eyes. “What questions?” 

“Is there a big lake around here?” Hawkwing 
began. “One that’s so big you can stand on the shore 
and hardly see the other side.” 

The tom’s hostility began to fade, replaced by 
confusion. He shook his head. “There’s nowhere like 
that around here.” 

A chill of despair began to creep through 
Hawkwing’s pelt, but he went on. “Then do you know 
about any Clans of cats nearby?” 

The ginger tom twitched his whiskers, puzzled. 
“Clans?” 

“Cats like us,” Hawkwing mewed. 

The tom raked his gaze across the SkyClan 
warriors and gave a disdainful sniff. “Mange-ridden 
prey-stealers, you mean?” 


A low growl came from Sparrowpelt’s throat, but 
Hawkwing glared at him and flicked his tail at his 
Clanmate for silence. 

“Clan cats live in a group together,’ Leafstar 
explained, padding up beside Hawkwing. “We look 
after each other and train our young ones.” 

“Really?” The ginger tom sneered. “That doesn’t 
seem to have done you much good, does it?” 

Hawkwing winced at the truth behind the tom’s 
words. “Have you seen any cats like that?” he asked. 

“No. Never heard of Clans before. Never want to 
hear about them again. You’ve all got brains full of 
feathers!” 

Without waiting for a response, the ginger tom 
snatched up the rabbit, bounded up the bank past the 
burrows, and vanished from sight. 

“That went well,” Hawkwing sighed. 

“We”d better move on,” Leafstar meowed, above 
the angry muttering of her Clan. “It sounds like we’ve 
still got a long way to go.” 


Finally, after more than two moons, the cats of 
SkyClan made camp in a copse of oaks and gorse 
bushes, where the ground was covered with bracken 


and bramble thickets, offering some shelter from the 
cold. 

“We’ll rest here for a few days,” Leafstar decided. 
“Tonight is the full moon, when StarClan draws closest 
to us. Perhaps they will send us a sign at last.” 

Every cat was too exhausted that night to do more 
than curl up where they stood. The following morning, 
Hawkwing began to make a proper nest for himself in 
the bracken. As he pulled at the dead brown stems, he 
noticed tiny new fronds beginning to uncurl in the 
depths of the clump. The biting green color brought a 
sudden surge of hope in his heart. 

Maybe this long, miserable leaf-bare is coming 
to an end at last. 

Looking up, Hawkwing spotted Echosong speaking 
urgently to Leafstar across the makeshift camp. He 
hardly had time to wonder what that was all about 
before Leafstar raised her head and let out a yowl. 

“Let all cats old enough to catch their own prey 
join here in the middle of the camp for a Clan 
meeting!” 

Cats slid out of the bracken where, like Hawkwing, 
they had been making their nests. Plumwillow’s kits 


bounced to the front of the crowd, with Sandynose and 
Plumwillow just behind them. Bellaleaf sat beside 
Fallowfern and Blossomheart, while Sparrowpelt and 
Macgyver padded up from the opposite side of the 
camp. The rest of the Clan gathered around; 
Hawkwing could feel a sense of tension in the air, as if 
every cat was expecting something to happen. 

He bounded over to join his Clanmates, noticing 
that Leafstar’s amber eyes were glowing and her 
whiskers quivering. 

She's excited about something, he thought, and 
she’s doing a poor job of hiding it. 

When the entire Clan had assembled, Leafstar let 
her gaze travel over her cats. “Echosong has had 
another vision,” she announced. Raising her voice to 
carry over the eager exclamations from the rest of the 
Clan, she added, “Echosong, please tell us about it.” 

The medicine cat stepped up to Leafstar’s side and 
raised her head; her beautiful green eyes were full of 
joy and gratitude. “I was tempted to lose hope, after 
we had been traveling for so long,” she began. “But 
last night, under the light of the full moon, I begged 
StarClan to send me a sign that we were still on the 


right track—that SkyClan had a future to share, and 
not merely a past.” 

“And they answered you?” Tinycloud asked. 

“Yes, I had a vision,’ Echosong replied. “I saw 
Skystar, the pale gray tom who first appeared to me in 
the Whispering Cave, and told me to find the spark that 
remains.” 

“What did he say this time?” Sparrowpelt asked 
eagerly. 

“He told me, ‘Embrace what you find in the 
shadows, for only they can clear the sky,” Echosong 
announced to the Clan. 

“Well, that’s really helpful!” Sagenose exclaimed 
with a disgusted twitch of his whiskers. 

“Yes, why does StarClan have to be so vague?” 
Plumwillow demanded. “Would it hurt them to tell us 
clearly so we can understand?” 

More cats jumped in with their comments and 
suggestions, and as the arguments rose Echosong had 
to wave her tail vigorously for silence. “Skystar 
showed me a five-pointed maple leaf,” Echosong told 
the Clan, “and said that now SkyClan is scattered like 
leaves, blown by the wind.” 


“We know that,” Sagenose muttered. 

Echosong ignored the interruption. “But then he 
told me to look at the leaf.” 

Hawkwing’s pads prickled with irritation at this 
incomprehensible message. Glancing around, he 
realized that his Clanmates were just as bewildered as 
he was. Confused murmuring arose from them as they 
exchanged puzzled glances. Hawkwing felt as though 
he was wandering in a fog, and that StarClan’s sign 
had made it even harder to decide what path they 
should take. 

Then Hawkwing noticed that a look of 
understanding was spreading over Leafstar’s face, her 
amber eyes glowing with sudden excitement. “I see!” 
she exclaimed. “A leaf with five pomts—and including 
SkyClan, there are five Clans! We are on the right 
track. StarClan wants us to find the other Clans.” 

Cats turned to each other, eagerly discussing what 
they had just heard. Then Blossomheart spoke up. 
“That’s all very well, but that’s what we already 
thought they meant. And it doesn’t exactly tell us what 
to do.” 

Echosong dipped her head. “True. StarClan never 


makes it easy for us. But I asked for a sign that we 
were on the right track—and we are! StarClan hasn’t 
forgotten us.” 

Her Clanmates nodded in agreement. Hawkwing’s 
gaze fell on the tender new fern fronds uncurling in the 
midst of the dead brown growth of previous seasons. 
Beside them was a single yellow flower of coltsfoot, 
glowing like a tiny sun. Maybe new hope is coming 
after all. Maybe SkyClan will be rewarded for 
surviving this miserable leaf-bare. 

All morning a stiff breeze had been blowing, 
driving gray clouds across the sky. Now rain fell in a 
sharp, freezing shower, sending the SkyClan cats 
diving for shelter in the bushes. Hawkwing crouched 
underneath some thickly growing holly branches, 
licking the icy drops from his fur and struggling to hold 
on to his earlier optimism. 

StarClan has chosen to speak to us again. 1 
must hold on to that. 

When at last the rain had passed, Leafstar called 
the cats back into the middle of the camp. 

“There is one more thing to do,” she announced, 
“and one of the most important duties of a Clan leader. 


Dewkit, Finkit, Reedkit, come here.” 

Exchanging wondering glances, the three kits 
padded up to stand in front of Leafstar, while 
Plumwillow let out a soft wail. 

“Just look at them! It’s as if they’d been pulled 
through the bushes backward! Why does Leafstar 
never give us any notice?” 

“Today it is my task to make three new 
apprentices,” Leafstar went on. “And I can think of no 
better way to commit ourselves to the future under the 
guidance of StarClan.” Beckoning Dewkit with her tail, 
she continued, “From this day forward, this apprentice 
will be known as Dewpaw. Macgyver, you gave up 
your life as a kittypet to follow SkyClan. I trust you will 
pass on your commitment to Dewpaw as his mentor.” 

A look of pleased surprise gathered on Macgyver’s 
face as Dewpaw trotted up to him and stretched up to 
touch his nose. 

“Dewpaw! Dewpaw!” 

Hawkwing joined in as his Clanmates chanted the 
new apprentice’s name, then watched proudly as 
Leafstar apprenticed Finkit to Blossomheart and 
Reedkit to Bellaleaf. 


“Finpaw! Reedpaw! Finpaw! Reedpaw!” the Clan 
called out, while the new apprentices glowed with 
excitement. 

Hawkwing felt a moment’s pang that he wasn’t to 
mentor one of his beloved kits, then reflected that if he 
had been the mentor for one of them, the other two 
would have felt left out, and discontented with their 
own mentors. 

Leafstar has chosen well. 

He thought back over all the moons of their 
journey, remembering the effort it had taken to keep 
the kits safe and together—not to mention keeping the 
rest of SkyClan safe, too, so that they would see this 
day. Dogs, Twolegs, sickness . . . we have survived 
them all. Now he felt that SkyClan was waking from a 
bad dream, and these eager young cats were its future. 

He spotted Plumwillow casting him a grateful look, 
and dipped his head in acknowledgment. He could see 
in her eyes that she recognized how hard this was for 
him. Since Sandynose’s return, Hawkwing hadn’t tried 
to speak to her alone, not wanting to get into the middle 
of their happiness. But he felt a warm glow inside at 
the thought that Plumwillow remembered what he had 


done for her family. 

All three apprentices were crowding around 
Plumwillow and Sandynose, eagerly discussing their 
ceremony. “Wasn't it amazing when the whole Clan 
called out our names?” Reedpaw meowed. 

“Tt felt great!” Dewpaw puffed out his chest. “I’m 
going to be the best apprentice ever.” 

“No, you’re not! I am!” Finpaw insisted, swiping at 
his brother’s ear. 

Sandynose separated the two young cats with a 
gentle paw before they could start tussling. “That’s 
enough of that,” he told them. “You have to behave 
yourselves and listen to your mentors. Then you’l all 
be great warriors one day.” 

“We will!” the new apprentices promised him 
fervently. 

Hawkwing could see that they were well on the 
way to accepting Sandynose, and he determinedly 
crushed down a small pang of regret. 

Then the kits broke away from their parents and 
came scampering across to him. 

“We’re apprentices now!” Finpaw announced. 
“Isn't it great?” 


“Pm very proud of all of you,” Hawkwing told 
them. “You’ve survived incredibly difficult times to 
become apprentices. And I truly believe that you will 
see SkyClan flourish again.” 

“T believe that, too!” Dewpaw assured him. 

At last the kits left, scurrying off excitedly to join 
their mentors. 

“I want to catch a mouse!” Reedpaw squealed, 
flinging herself at Bellaleaf. “Show me how!” 

“Stop squealing like that, for a start,’ Bellaleaf 
responded, wryly amused. “Come on, I'll teach you the 
hunter’s crouch.” 

“Us too!” Finpaw demanded, bouncing up to 
Blossomheart, while Dewpaw skidded to a halt in front 
of Macgyver. 

All three mentors led their apprentices to a flat 
grassy area at the side of the camp, where 
Blossomheart began demonstrating the hunter’s 
crouch. 

As he watched them go, listening to their eager 
chatter, a familiar hollowness swelled inside 
Hawkwing. These are not my kits, he reminded 
himself. They will always have a place in my heart, 


but they cant truly fill the hole Pebbleshine and 
our kits have left behind. 

His paws led him to the top of a rocky bluff 
overlooking the camp. Wind ruffling his fur, Hawkwing 
raised his head to gaze at the sky, where the clouds 
were rapidly clearing. 

What will fill my heart, then? Hawkwing asked 
himself. He didn’t feel the despair he had struggled 
with all leaf-bare, but he also didn’t have any answer 
to his question. 

“My brave warrior, with the wings of a hawk.” 
Echosong padded up beside him and settled down with 
her paws tucked under her. She met his gaze, curiosity 
in her green eyes. “What do you see when you look at 
the horizon?” she asked. 

Hawkwing gazed out across the vista of rolling hills 
and trees, and considered the medicine cat’s words. 
There was only one honest answer. “The future,” he 
replied. 

“That’s no small task,” Echosong responded, “after 
the tragedies we’ve all suffered. It takes a strong cat 
to see the future, instead of getting lost in the past.” 

Hawkwing looked down at her. “Do you think 


we'll find the other Clans?” 

“I know we will, for StarClan has told me so,” 
Echosong replied. “And they’ve told me something 
else, too.” 

Hawkwing waited curiously, but for a few 
heartbeats Echosong didn’t go on. 

“After I went back to sleep,” she continued at last, 
“T had a vision of a young she-cat who looked exactly 
like you, Hawkwing. At her paws was a maple leaf, 
and she nodded down to its five points. Do you know 
what that means?” 

Hawkwing stared at her, stunned. What could that 
mean? “She looked just like me?” he stammered. 
“Then... she... could she be my kin?” 

Echosong nodded sagely. “Your kin . . . or perhaps 
even your kit.” 

A wave of fierce emotion washed over Hawkwing, 
almost carrying him off his paws. Could my kits really 
be part of my future? Its what I want most in the 
world—but I never dreamed it could be possible. 

“You deserve happiness, after everything you’ve 
suffered,’ Echosong meowed. “It has been a long, 
difficult journey, but it has made you into a very strong 


cat—the very cat your Clan needs most.” 

“Thank you,” Hawkwing meowed fervently. 

Side by side, he and Echosong turned to look out at 
the sky. The clouds had cleared away, and the sun 
shone in a vast expanse of crystal blue. 

A fragile hope began to bloom inside Hawkwing. /f 
one of my kits is alive, then surely Pebbleshine is, 
too. For the first time he began to believe that 
everything his Clan had suffered would prove worth it 
in the end. 

We arent home by the lake yet, Hawkwing 
thought, but for the first time in a long while, 1 
believe we will be soon. 





CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ART BY 


JAMES L. BARRY 


My 
(UNTAR j 
MY NAME IS HAWKWING. I'MA 174 
WARRIOR OF SKYCLAN. AND LIKE — 
HE REST OF 


Sm 


Wih 
DI Hi 


W 


EVER SINCE AN INFECTION TOOK 


Y 
= 


[ii 


- | A Fe um! =P RSS 
i" =a 


ca 


N 














ECHOSONG DID HER BEST TO 
GUIDE US, IN HER LAST DAYS. 
SHE HAD A NEW VISION... 


"FOLLOW THE BLOOD TRAIL,” SHE SAID. 
IF ONLY SHE COULD HAVE TOLD US 1 o7 
WHAT THAT MEANT. 


AF A Na ] 


AND ALONG THE THUNDERPATH. Y AND I CAN'T STAND BEING NEAR 
BUT WE'VE FOUND NOTHING. N) 


THE THUNDERPATH. IT JUST REMINDS 
ME OF LOSING PEBBLESHINE. | 





THIS IS AS GOOD A PLACE 
TO STOP FOR THE NIGHT AS 
WE'RE LIKELY TO FIND. 


PR ak E 
Zug mm 7 
S a xe 
TK mies TREE ón 
| \ A HUNT, 
Amp” 
uN 
N pi L 
4 
f 
¥ 


WHY WOULON’T 
I BE, PLUMWILLOW? 


IGHT OF 
THOSE THREE...SO ATTACHED 
TO THEIR FATHER NOW, 
INSTEAD OF TO YOU. 





EIER, 


a 
ONE OF MY KITS. BUT... 
IZ 4 


WAS WHAT SHE SAW TRUE? WAS 
ANY OF IT TRUE? IT SEEMS LIKE A 
LIFETIME AGO THAT SHE LEFT US. 


m \ 


STA 
WILL LEAD YOU TO THE: 
be a 


TO you. = 
HOW ARE WE SUPPOSED TO 
FOLLOW HER VISIONS, WHEN 
SHE'S NOT HERE TO GUIDE Us? 


I KNOW THE ANSWER. 
"HAVE FAITH." EASY TO SAY. 





LEAFSTAR... YOU KNOW 
YOU HAVE MY CONFIDENCE. BUT, ) 
I CANT HELP BUT THINK... A) you MUST HAVE 


7 THAT IT WOULD BE FAITH, SANDYNOSE. 
BETTER IF WE HAD A FIRM 


AT THAT INSTANT T SEE IT. 


a m 


A WIND STORM 
IS BLOWING UP! 


EVERYONE FIND SHELTER ` 
UNTIL IT PASSES! f 









































Excerpt from Warriors: A Vision of 
Shadows #1: The Apprentices Quest 


A new adventure begins—for all five warrior Clans. 
Read on for a sneak peek at 


A VISION OF SHADOWS 


WARRIORS 


THE APPRENTICE’S 
QUEST 





For many moons, the warrior cats have lived in peace in their 
territories around the lake. But a dark shadow looms on the 
horizon, and the time has come for Alderpaw—son of the 
ThunderClan leader, Bramblestar, and his deputy, Squir- 
relflight—to shape his destiny . . . and the fate of all the 


warrior Clans. 





CHAPTER 1 
+ 


Alderkit stood in front of the nursery, nervously 
shifting his weight. He unsheathed his claws, digging 
them into the beaten earth of the stone hollow, then 
sheathed them again and shook dust from his paws. 

Now what happens? he asked himself, his belly 
churning as he thought about his apprentice ceremony 
that was only moments away. What if there's some 
sort of an assessment before I can be an 
apprentice? 

Alderkit thought he had heard something about an 
assessment once. Perhaps it had been a few moons 
ago when Hollytuft, Fernsong, and Sorrelstripe were 
made warriors. But I can t really remember . . . I was 
so little then. 

His heart started to pound faster and faster. He 
tried to convince himself that some cat would have told 
him if he was supposed to prove that he was ready. 
Because I’m not sure that Iam ready to become an 
apprentice. Not sure at all. What if I can t do it? 

Deep im his own thoughts, Alderkit jumped in 


surprise as some cat nudged him hard from behind. 
Spinning around, he saw his sister Sparkkit, her orange 
tabby fur bushing out in all directions. 

“Aren’t you excited?” she asked with an 
enthusiastic bounce. “Don’t you want to know who 
your mentor will be? I hope I get someone fun! Not a 
bossy cat like Berrynose, or one like Whitewing. She 
sticks so close to the rules I think she must recite the 
warrior code in her sleep!” 

“That's enough.” The kits’ mother, Squirrelflight, 
emerged from the nursery in time to hear Sparkkit's 
last words. “You're not supposed to have fun with 
your mentor,” she added, licking one paw and 
smoothing it over Sparkkit’s pelt. “You're supposed to 
learn from them. Berrynose and Whitewing are both 
fine warriors. You’d be very lucky to have either of 
them as your mentor.” 

Though Squirrelflight’s voice was sharp, her green 
gaze shone with love for her kits. Alderkit knew how 
much his mother adored him and his sister. He was 
only a kit, but he knew that Squirrelflight was old to 
have her first litter, and he remembered their shared 
grief for his lost littermates: Juniperkit, who had barely 


taken a breath before he died, and Dandelionkit, who 
had never been strong and who had slowly weakened 
until she also died two moons later. 

Sparkkit and I have to be the best cats we can 
be for Squirrelflight and Bramblestar. 

Sparkkit, meanwhile, wasn’t at all cowed by her 
mother’s scolding. She twitched her tail and cheerfully 
shook her pelt until her fur fluffed up again. 

Alderkit wished he had her confidence. He hadn’t 
wondered until now who his mentor would be, and he 
gazed around the clearing at the other cats with new 
and curious eyes. /vypool would be an okay mentor, 
he thought, spotting the silver-and-white tabby she-cat 
returning from a hunting patrol with Lionblaze and 
Blossomfall. Shes friendly and a good hunter. 
Lionblaze is a bit scary, though. Alderkit suppressed 
a Shiver at the sight of the muscles rippling beneath the 
golden warrior’s pelt. And it wont be Blossomfall, 
because she was just mentor for Hollytuft. Or 
Brackenfur or Rosepetal, because they mentored 
Sorrelstripe and Fernsong. 

Lost in thought, Alderkit watched Thornclaw, who 
had paused in the middle of the clearing to give himself 


a good scratch behind one ear. He’d probably be 
okay, though he sort of short-tempered. . . . 

“Hey, wake up!” Sparkkit trod down hard on 
Alderkit’s paw. “It's starting!” 

Alderkit realized that Bramblestar had appeared on 
the Highledge outside his den, way above their heads 
on the wall of the stone hollow. 

“Let every cat old enough to catch their own prey 
join here beneath the Highledge for a Clan meeting!” 
Bramblestar yowled. 

Alderkit gazed at his father admiringly as all the 
cats in the clearing turned their attention to him and 
began to gather together. Hes so confident and 
strong. I’m so lucky to be the son of such an 
amazing cat. 

Bramblestar ran lightly down the tumbled rocks 
and took his place in the center of the ragged circle of 
cats that was forming at the foot of the rock wall. 
Squirrelflight gently nudged her two kits forward until 
they too stood in the circle. 

Alderkit’s belly began to churn even harder, and he 
tightened all his muscles to stop himself from 
trembling. / cant do this! he thought, struggling not to 


panic. 

Then he caught sight of his father’s gaze on him: 
such a warm, proud look that Alderkit instantly felt 
comforted. He took a few deep breaths, forcing 
himself to relax. 

“Cats of ThunderClan,” Bramblestar began, “this is 
a good day for us, because it’s time to make two new 
apprentices. Sparkkit, come here, please.” 

Instantly Sparkkit bounced into the center of the 
circle, her tail standing straight up and her fur bristling 
with excitement. She gazed confidently at her leader. 

“From this day forward,” Bramblestar meowed, 
touching Sparkkit on her shoulder with his tail-tip, “this 
apprentice will be known as Sparkpaw. Cherryfall, you 
will be her mentor. 1 trust that you will pass on to her 
your dedication to your Clan, your quick mind, and your 
excellent hunting skills.” 

Sparkpaw dashed across the circle to Cherryfall, 
bouncing with happiness, and the ginger she-cat bent 
her head to touch noses with her. 

“Sparkpaw! Sparkpaw!” the Clan began to yowl. 

Sparkpaw gave a pleased little hop as her 
Clanmates chanted her new name, her eyes shining as 


she stood beside her mentor. 

Alderkit joined in the acclamation, pleased to see 
how happy his sister looked. Thank StarClan! There 
wasn t any kind of test to prove that she was ready. 

As the yowling died away, Bramblestar beckoned 
to Alderkit with his tail. “Your turn,” he meowed, his 
gaze encouraging A lderkit on. 

Alderkit’s legs suddenly felt wobbly as he 
staggered into the center of the circle. His chest felt 
tight, as if he couldn’t breathe properly. But as he 
halted in front of Bramblestar, his father gave him a 
slight nod to steady him, and he stood with his head 
raised as Bramblestar rested the tip of his tail on his 
shoulder. 

“From this day forward, this apprentice will be 
known as Alderpaw,’ Bramblestar announced. 
“Molewhisker, you will be his mentor. You are loyal, 
determined, and brave, and I know that you will do 
your best to pass on these qualities to your 
apprentice.” 

As he padded across the clearing to jom his 
mentor, Alderpaw wasn’t sure how he felt. He knew 
that Molewhisker was Cherryfall’s littermate, but the 


big cream-and-brown tom was much quieter than his 
sister, and had never shown much interest in the kits. 
His gaze was solemn as he bent to touch noses with 
Alderpaw. 

I hope I can make you proud of me, Alderpaw 
thought. I’m going to try my hardest! 

“Alderpaw! Alderpaw!” 

Alderpaw ducked his head and gave his chest fur a 
few embarrassed licks as he heard his Clan 
caterwauling his name. At the same time, he thought 
he would burst with happmess. 

At last the chanting died away and the crowd of 
cats began to disperse, heading toward their dens or 
the fresh-kill pile. Squirrelflight and Bramblestar 
padded over to join their kits. 

“Well done,” Bramblestar meowed. “It wasn’t so 
scary, was it?” 

“It was great!” Sparkpaw responded, her tail 
waving in the air. “I can’t wait to go hunting!” 

“We’re so proud of both of you,” Squirrelflight 
purred, giving Sparkpaw and then Alderpaw a lick 
around their ears. “I’m sure you’ll both be wonderful 
warriors one day.” 


Bramblestar dipped his head in agreement. “T 
know you both have so much to give your Clan.” He 
stepped back as he finished speaking, and waved his 
tail to draw Molewhisker and Cherryfall closer. “Listen 
to your mentors,” he told the two new apprentices. 
“Im looking forward to hearing good things about your 
progress.” 

With an affectionate nuzzle he turned away and 
headed toward his den. Squirrelflight too gave her kits 
a quick cuddle, and then followed him. Alderpaw and 
Sparkpaw were left alone with Molewhisker and 
Cherryfall. 

Molewhisker faced Alderpaw, blinking solemnly. 
“Its a big responsibility, being an apprentice,” he 
meowed. “You must pay close attention to everything 
you’re taught, because one day your Clan may depend 
on your fighting or hunting skills.” 

Alderpaw nodded; his anxiety was returning. A 
hard lump of worry was lodged in his throat like an 
indigestible piece of fresh-kill. 

“You'll have to work hard to prove you have what 
it takes to be a proper warrior,’ Molewhisker went on. 

His head held high, Alderpaw tried to look worthy, 


but was afraid he wasn’t making a very good job of tt. 
Hearing Cherryfall talking to Sparkpaw just behind him 
didn’t help at all. 

“ . . and we’ll have such fun exploring the 
territory!” the ginger she-cat mewed enthusiastically. 
“And now you'll get to go to Gatherings.” 

Alderpaw couldn't help wishing that his own 
mentor was a little more like his littermate’s, instead of 
being so serious. 

“Can we start learning to hunt now?” Sparkpaw 
asked eagerly. 

It was Molewhisker who replied. “Not right now. 
As well as learning to be warriors, apprentices have 
special duties for the well-being of the whole Clan.” 

“What do we have to do?” Alderpaw asked, 
hoping to impress his mentor and show that he was 
ready for anything. 

There was a guilty look on Cherryfall’s face as she 
meowed, “Today you’re going to make the elders more 
comfortable by getting rid of their ticks.” 

Molewhisker waved his tail in the direction of the 
medicine cats’ den. “Go and ask Leafpool or 
Jayfeather for some mouse bile. They’ Il tell you how to 


use it.” 

“Mouse bile!” Sparkpaw wrinkled her nose in 
disgust. “Yuck!” 

Alderpaw’s heart sank still further. /f this is being 
an apprentice, I’m not sure I’m going to like it. 


Sunlight shone into the den beneath the hazel 
bushes where the elders lived. Alderpaw wished that 
he could curl up in the warmth and take a nap. Instead, 
he combed his claws painstakingly through 
Graystripe’s long pelt, searching for ticks. Sparkpaw 
was doing the same for Purdy, while Sandstorm and 
Millie looked on, patiently waiting their turn. 

“Wow, there's a massive tick here!” Sparkpaw 
exclaimed. “Hold still, Purdy, and P1 get it off.” 

With clenched teeth she picked up the twig 
Jayfeather had given her, a ball of moss soaked in 
mouse bile stuck on one end, and awkwardly 
maneuvered it until she could dab the moss onto 
Purdy’s tick. 

The old tabby shook his pelt and sighed with relief 
as the tick fell off. “That's much better, young ’un,” he 
purred. 

“But this stuff smells horrible!” Sparkpaw 


mumbled around the twig. “I don’t know how you 
elders can stand it.” Suppressing a sigh, she began 
parting Purdy’s matted, untidy fur in search of more 
ticks. 

“Now you listen to me, youngster,’ Purdy 
meowed. “There’s not a cat in ThunderClan who 
wasn’t an apprentice once, takin’ off ticks, just like 
you.” 

“Even Bramblestar?” Alderpaw asked, pausing 
with one paw sunk deep in Graystripe’s pelt. 

“Even Firestar,” Graystripe responded. “He and I 
were apprentices together, and I’ve lost count of the 
number of ticks we shifted. Hey!” he added, giving 
Alderpaw a prod. “Watch what you’re doing. Your 
claws are digging into my shoulder!” 

“Sorry!” Alderpaw replied. 

In spite of being scolded, he felt quite content. 
Cleaning off ticks was a messy job, but there were 
worse things than sitting in the sun and listening to the 
elders. He looked up briefly to see Sandstorm’s green 
gaze resting lovingly on him and his sister as she 
settled herself more comfortably in the bracken of her 
nest. 


“I remember when your mother was first made an 
apprentice,” she mewed. “Dustpelt was her mentor. 
You won’t remember him—he died in the Great Storm 
—but he was one of our best warriors, and he didn’t 
put up with any nonsense. Even so, Squirrelflight was a 
match for him!” 

“What did she do?” Alderpaw asked, intrigued to 
think of his serious, businesslike mother as a difficult 
young apprentice. “Go on, tell us!” 

Sandstorm sighed. “What didnt she do? Slipping 
out of camp to hunt on her own . . . getting stuck in 
bushes or falling into streams . . . I remember Dustpelt 
said to me once, ‘If that kit of yours doesn’t shape up, 
I’m going to claw her pelt off and hang it on a bush to 
frighten the foxes!’” 

Sparkpaw stared at Sandstorm with her mouth 
gaping. “He wouldn’t!” 

“No, of course he wouldn’t”’ Sandstorm 
responded, her green eyes alight with amusement. 
“But Dustpelt had to be tough with her. He saw how 
much she had to offer her Clan, but he knew she 
wouldn’t live up to her potential unless she learned 
discipline.” 


“She sure did that,” Alderpaw meowed. 

“Hey!” Graystripe gave Alderpaw another prod. 
“What about my ticks, huh?” 

“And ours,’ Millie put in, with a glance at 
Sandstorm. “We’ve been waiting moons!” 

“Sorry...” 

Alderpaw began rapidly searching through 
Graystripe’s fur, and almost at once came across a 
huge swollen tick. That must be making Graystripe 
really uncomfortable. 

Picking up his stick with the bile-soaked moss, he 
dabbed at the tick. At the same moment, he happened 
to glance up, and spotted Leafpool and Jayfeather 
talking intently to each other just outside the medicine 
cats’ den. 

As Alderpaw wondered vaguely what was so 
important, both medicine cats turned toward him. 
Suddenly he felt trapped by Jayfeather’s blind gaze 
and Leafpool’s searching one. 

A worm of uneasiness began to gnaw at 
Alderpaw’s belly. Great StarClan! Are they talking 
about me? Have I messed something up already? 





CHAPTER 2 
+ 


Alderpaw scarcely slept at all on his first night in the 
apprentices’ den. He missed the warm scents of the 
nursery and the familiar shapes of his mother and 
Daisy sleeping beside him. The hollow beneath the 
ferns seemed empty with only him and his sister 
occupying it. 

Sparkpaw had curled up at once with her tail 
wrapped over her nose, but Alderpaw dozed uneasily, 
caught between excitement and apprehension at what 
the new day would bring. He was fully awake again by 
the time the first pale light of dawn began to filter 
through the ferns. 

He sprang up as the arching fronds parted and a 
head appeared, gazing down at him, but he relaxed 
when he recognized Cherryfall. 

“Hi!” the ginger she-cat meowed. “Give Sparkpaw 
a prod. It’s time for our tour of the territory!” 

“Me too?” Alderpaw asked. 

“Yes, of course. Molewhisker is here waiting. 


Hurry!” 


Alderpaw poked one paw into his sister’s side; and 
her soft, rhythmic snoring broke off with a squeak of 
alarm. “Is it foxes?” she asked, sitting up and shaking 
scraps of moss off her pelt. “Badgers?” 

“No, it’s our mentors,’ Alderpaw told her. 
“They’re going to show us the territory.” 

“Great!” Sparkpaw shot upward, scrabbling hard 
with her hind paws as she pushed her way out through 
the ferns. “Let’s go!” 

Alderpaw followed more slowly, shivering in the 
chilly air of dawn. Outside the den Molewhisker and 
Cherryfall stood waiting side by side. Beyond them, he 
spotted Bumblestripe, Rosepetal, and Cloudtail 
emerging from the warriors’ den. After a few 
heartbeats for a quick grooming, they set off with 
Cloudtail in the lead, and vanished through the thorn 
tunnel. 

“There goes the dawn patrol)’ Molewhisker 
meowed. “We’ll wait a few moments to let them get 
away. If you want, you can take something from the 
fresh-kill pile.” 

Alderpaw suddenly realized how hungry he was. 
With Sparkpaw at his side he raced across the camp. 


“There’s not much here,” Sparkpaw complained, 
prodding with one paw at a scrawny mouse. 

“The hunting patrols haven’t gone out yet,” 
Alderpaw meowed. He took a blackbird from the 
scanty prey that remained and began gulping it down. 

“Wait till we’re hunters!” Sparkpaw mumbled 
around a mouthful of mouse. “Then the fresh-kill pile 
will always be full.” 

Alderpaw hoped that she was right. 

Molewhisker waved his tail from the opposite side 
of the camp. Swallowing the last of their prey, the two 
apprentices bounded back to join him and Cherryfall, 
who took the lead as they pushed their way through 
the tunnel in the barrier of thorns that blocked the 
entrance to the camp. 

Alderpaw’s pads tingled with anticipation as he slid 
through the narrow space and set his paws for the first 
time in the forest. 

By this time a gleam of reddish light through the 
trees showed where the sun would rise. Ragged 
scraps of mist still floated among the trees, and the 
grass was heavy with dew. 

Sparkpaw’s eyes stretched wide as she gazed 


around her. “It’s so big!” she squealed. 

Alderpaw was silent, unable to find words for what 
he could see. Except for the thorn barrier behind him, 
and the walls of the stone hollow beyond, trees 
stretched away in every direction, until they faded into 
a shadowy distance. Their trunks rose many fox- 
lengths above his head, their branches intertwining. 
The air was full of tantalizing prey-scents, and he could 
hear the scuffling of small creatures in the thick 
undergrowth among the trees. 

“Can we hunt?” Sparkpaw asked eagerly. 

“Maybe later,” Cherryfall told her. “To begin with, 
we’re going to tour the territory. By the time you're 
made warriors, you’ll need to know every paw step of 
it.” 

Molewhisker nodded seriously. “Every tree, every 
rock, every stream...” 

Alderpaw blinked. All of it? Surely no cat could 
ever know all of it? 

“This way,” Cherryfall meowed briskly. “We’ll 
start by heading for the ShadowClan border.” 

“Will we meet ShadowClan cats?” Sparkpaw 
asked. “What happens if we do?” 


“Nothing happens,” Molewhisker replied sternly. 
“They stay on their side; we stay on ours.” 

Cherryfall set out at a good pace, with Sparkpaw 
bouncing along beside her. Alderpaw followed, and 
Molewhisker brought up the rear. 

Before they had taken many paw steps, they came 
to a spot where a wide path led away into the forest, 
covered only with short grass and small creeping 
plants. Longer grass and ferns bordered it on either 
side. 

“Where does that lead?” Alderpaw asked, angling 
his ears toward the path. “And why isn’t there much 
growing there?” 

“Good question,” Molewhisker responded. 
Alderpaw was pleased at his mentor’s approving tone. 
“That path was made by Twolegs, many, many 
seasons ago. The same Twolegs who cut out the stone 
to make the hollow where we camp. It leads to the old 
Twoleg den, where Leafpool and Jayfeather grow their 
herbs.” 

“But we aren't going that way today,” Cherryfall 
added. 

Heading farther away from the camp, Alderpaw 


noticed that the trees ahead seemed to be thinning out. 
A bright silvery light was shining through them. 

“What’s that?” Sparkpaw asked. 

Before either of the mentors could reply, they 
came to the edge of the trees and pushed through a 
thick barrier of holly bushes. Alderpaw emerged onto a 
stretch of short, soft grass. Beyond it was a strip of 
pebbles and sandy soil, and beyond that... 

“Wow!” Sparkpaw gasped. “Is that the lake?” 

Alderpaw blinked at the shining expanse of water 
that lay in front of him. He had heard his Clanmates 
back in the camp talking about the lake, and he had 
imagined something a bit bigger than the puddles that 
formed on the floor of the hollow when it rained. He 
would never have believed that there was this much 
water in the whole world. 

“There’s no end to it!” he exclaimed. 

“Oh, yes, there is,” Molewhisker assured him. 
“Some cats have traveled all the way around it. Look 
over there,” he continued, pointing with his tail. “Can 
you see those trees and bushes? That's RiverClan 
territory.” 

Alderpaw narrowed his eyes and could just make 


out the trees his mentor was talking about, hazy with 
the distance. 

“RiverClan cats love the lake,” Cherryfall mewed. 
“They swim in it and catch fish.” 

“Weird!” Sparkpaw responded. Giving a little 
bounce, she added, “Can / catch a fish?” Without 
waiting for her mentor to reply, she dashed across the 
pebbles and skidded to a halt with her forepaws 
splashing at the edge of the water. “Cold!” she yowled, 
leaping backward with her neck fur bristling. Then she 
let out a little huff of laughter and bounced back to the 
edge, her tail waving excitedly. “I can’t see any fish,” 
she meowed. 

Molewhisker heaved a sigh. “You won’t, if you go 
on like that. Or anything else, for that matter. Yowling 
and prancing about, you’ll scare away all the prey in 
the forest.” 

Sparkpaw backed away from the water again and 
jomed her Clanmates beside the bushes, her tail 
drooping. “Sorry,” she muttered. 

“That’s okay.” Cherryfall rested her tail briefly on 
her apprentice’s shoulders. “We’re not hunting right 
now. And I know how exciting it is to see the lake for 


the first time.” 

Molewhisker flicked his ears. “Let’s get on.” 

He took the lead as the cats padded along the 
lakeshore. Soon they came to a stream that emerged 
from the forest and flowed into the lake. 

“This is the ShadowClan border,’ Cherryfall 
announced. 

Alderpaw wrinkled his nose at a strong, unfamiliar 
reek that came from the opposite side of the stream. 

“Yuck! What’s that?” Sparkpaw asked, taking a 
pace back and passing her tongue over her jaws as if 
she could taste something nasty. 

“That's the scent of ShadowClan,” Molewhisker 
answered. 

“That’s cat scent?” Sparkpaw sounded outraged. 
“I thought only foxes stank like that.” 

“It only smells bad because we’re not used to it,” 
Molewhisker pointed out, beginning to lead the way 
upstream, back into the shelter of the trees. “We 
probably smell just as bad to them.” 

“Do not!” Sparkpaw muttered under her breath. 

“You know that all the Clans scent-mark their 
boundaries,” Cherryfall explained as they continued to 


follow the stream. “Of course, we all know where the 
borders are, but marking them reminds every cat that 
they aren’t supposed to enter another Clan’s territory 
without permission.” 

“You should be able to pick up the ThunderClan 
scent markers, too,’ Molewhisker mewed. “We’ll 
show you how to set them. Before long, you’ ll be doing 
it as part of a border patrol.” 

“Cool!” Alderpaw exclaimed. For the first time he 
imagined himself as a warrior, maybe even leading a 
patrol, and setting scent markers to protect his Clan’s 
territory. [’m learning so much today! I feel like I’m 
becoming a real part of my Clan. 


Back Ads 





A NEW \VARRIORS 


ADVENTURE HAS BEGUN 


MN 


THUNDER-AN 
SHADOW 


7 BONUS! 
POSTER 
INSIDE 


ERIN HUNTER 


#1 NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLING AUTHOR #1 NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLING AUTHOR 
fi = 





Alderpaw, son of Bramblestar and Squirrelflight, 
must embark on a treacherous journey 
to save the Clans from a mysterious threat. 








FOLLOW THE ADVENTURES! 
WARRIORS: THE PROPHECIES BEGIN 


Y ya METTE 





In the first series, sinister perils threaten the four warrior Clans. 
Into the midst of this turmoil comes Rusty, an ordinary housecat, 
who may just be the bravest of them all. 








WARRIOR : THE NEW PROPHECY 


W PROPHECY 


MANOS 


ERIN HUNTER 


ARRIO 


SUNSET 


ERIN HUNTE 


In the second series, follow the next generation of heroic cats as 
they set off on a quest to save the Clans from destruction. 








JARRI OF OR 


DARK RIVER AROS 


POWER OF THREE 


piel N 


ECLIPSE: 


In the third series, Firestar's grandchildren begin their 
training as warrior cats. Prophecy foretells that they will 
hold more power than any cats before them. 





HARPER 


www.warriorcats.com 
An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers ats.com 





WARRIORS: OMEN OF THE STARS 


OWEN OF THE STA i j OMEN OF THE STARS 


> 





ERIN HUNTER 


In the fourth series, find out which ThunderClan 
apprentice will complete the prophecy. 





HARPER 


An Imprint of Harper‘ 








WARRIORS: DAWN OF THE CLANS 





DAWN OF RIOR OF) THE SOLA UN S, 


ee R RISING ISIS Ay THE FIRST BATTL) 





IN HUNTER 


ERIN HUNTER 


DAWN OF THE CLA 


Je AOS 


D KOTS AMIDE 





ERIN HU 





In this prequel series, 
discover how the warrior Clans came to be. 





HARPER 





WARRIORS: SUPER EDITIONS 


VRO] | WARRIORS 


skyclan‘s 


+ FIRESTAR’S 
Fl quest 2 BLUESTAR’S TO 


„ Propbecy , 


T ass ath 


© ERIN HUNTER * ERIN HUNTER 












E STAR'S 
REVENGE 


* ERIN HUNTER ERIN HUNTER ERIN HUNTER 


er 














| USOS 
BRAWMBLESIAR” 
STORM ASTON 


MOTH FLIGHT'S "> HAWKWING'S 
JOURNEY 





ERIN HUNTER 








These extra-long, stand-alone adventures will take you deep inside each of the 
Clans with thrilling tales featuring the most legendary warrior cats. 





HARPER 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers 


www.warriorcats.com 


HOLLYLEAF’S 
STORY 
> 


ERIN HUNTER | ERIN MUNTER ERIN HUNTER ERIN HUNTER 


V N JARRIORS 


TALE 


TIGERCLAW'S d EGA SCs E 
s FURY D sile 


ERIN HUNTER 


RAVENPAWS 
FAREWELL 





Discover the untold stories of the warrior cats and Clans when you download the 
separate ebook novellas—or read them in three paperback bind-ups! 








HARPER 





WARRIORS: FIELD GUIDES 


HEU GUIDE 


= VYRRIORS = 





ÉL 
y S| 







FOR THE 
ULTIMATE 
FAN! 


HARPER 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers 





ALSO BY ERIN HUNTER: 


Survivors: The Original Series 


The time has come for dogs to rule the wild. 





SURVIVORS : THE GATHERING DARKNESS 


In the second series, 
tensions are rising 
within the pack. 


ERIN HUNTER > 


ERIN HUNTER 


Download the three separate ebook novellas or 
read them in one paperback bind-up! 








READ EVERY 





Three young bears .. . one destiny. 
Discover the fate that awaits them on their adventure. 


Seekers: Return to the Wild 
er 3 = 















ey 





The stakes are higher than ever as the bears search for a way home. 


Seekers: Manga 














The bears come to life in manga! 





About the Author 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a 
fascination with the ferocity of the natural world. In 
addition to having great respect for nature in all its 
forms, Erin enjoys creating rich mythical explanations 
for animal behavior. She is also the author of the 
bestselling Seekers and Survivors series. 


Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at 
hc.com. 


Books by Erin Hunter 


JARRIORS 


THE PROPHECIES BEGIN 


Book One: Into the Wild 
Book Two: Fire and Ice 
Book Three: Forest of Secrets 
Book Four: Rising Storm 
Book Five: A Dangerous Path 
Book Six: The Darkest Hour 


THE NEW PROPHECY 
Book One: Midnight 


Book Two: Moonrise 
Book Three: Dawn 
Book Four: Starlight 
Book Five: Twilight 
Book Six: Sunset 


POWER OF THREE 


Book One: The Sight 
Book Two: Dark River 
Book Three: Outcast 
Book Four: Eclipse 
Book Five: Long Shadows 
Book Six: Sunrise 


OMEN OF THE STARS 


Book One: The Fourth Apprentice 
Book Two: Fading Echoes 
Book Three: Night Whispers 
Book Four: Sign of the Moon 
Book Five: The Forgotten Warrior 
Book Six: The Last Hope 


DAWN OF THE CLANS 


Book One: The Sun Trail 
Book Two: Thunder Rising 
Book Three: The First Battle 
Book Four: The Blazing Star 
Book Five: A Forest Divided 
Book Six: Path of Stars 


A VISION OF SHADOWS 


Book One: The Apprentices Quest 
Book Two: Thunder and Shadow 


EXPLORE Tbe 


Warriors Super Edition: Firestar s Quest 
Warriors Super Edition: Bluestar s Prophecy 


Warriors Super Edition: SkyClan s Destiny 
Warriors Super Edition: Crookedstar s Promise 
Warriors Super Edition: Yellowfang s Secret 
Warriors Super Edition: Tallstar s Revenge 
Warriors Super Edition: Bramblestar 5 Storm 
Warriors Super Edition: Moth Flights Vision 
Warriors Field Guide: Secrets of the Clans 
Warriors: Cats of the Clans 
Warriors: Code of the Clans 
Warriors: Battles of the Clans 
Warriors: Enter the Clans 
Warriors: The Ultimate Guide 
Warriors: The Untold Stories 
Warriors: Tales from the Clans 
Warriors: Shadows of the Clans 


MANGA 


The Lost Warrior 
Warrior s Refuge 
Warrior s Return 
The Rise of Scourge 
Tigerstar and Sasha #1: Into the Woods 
Tigerstar and Sasha #2: Escape from the Forest 


Tigerstar and Sasha #3: Return to the Clans 
Ravenpaws Path #1: Shattered Peace 
Ravenpaws Path #2: A Clan in Need 

Ravenpaw s Path #3: The Heart of a Warrior 

SkyClan and the Stranger #1: The Rescue 
SkyClan and the Stranger #2: Beyond the Code 
SkyClan and the Stranger #3: After the Flood 


NOVELLAS 


Hollyleaf 5 Story 
Mistystar s Omen 
Cloudstar s Journey 
Tigerclaw 5 Fury 
Leafpools Wish 
Mapleshade s Vengeance 
Goosefeather 5 Curse 
Ravenpaws Farewell 


SEERRS 


Book One: The Quest Begins 
Book Two: Great Bear Lake 
Book Three: Smoke Mountain 
Book Four: The Last Wilderness 
Book Five: Fire in the Sky 
Book Six: Spirits in the Stars 


RETURN TO THE WILD 


Book One: Island of Shadows 
Book Two: The Melting Sea 
Book Three: River of Lost Bears 
Book Four: Forest of Wolves 
Book Five: The Burning Horizon 
Book Six: The Longest Day 


MANGA 
Toklo 5 Story 


Kallik s Adventure 


URVIVORS 


Book One: The Empty City 
Book Two: A Hidden Enemy 
Book Three: Darkness Falls 
Book Four: The Broken Path 
Book Five: The Endless Lake 
Book Six: Storm of Dogs 


THE GATHERING DARKNESS 


Book One: A Pack Divided 
Book Two: Dead of Night 
Survivors: Tales from the Packs 


NOVELLAS 


Alphas Tale 
Sweets Journey 
Moons Choice 


Credits 


Cover art © 2016 by Owen Richardson 
Series cover design by Ellice M. Lee 


Copyright 


HAWKWING’S JOURNEY. Copyright © 2016 by Working Partners 
Limited. Series created by Working Partners Limited. Map art 
2016 by Dave Stevenson. Interior art 2016 by Owen 
Richardson. Manga text copyright © 2016 by Working 
Partners Limited. Manga art copyright © 2016 by 
HarperCollins Publishers. All rights reserved under 
International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By 
payment of the required fees, you have been granted the 
nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the 
text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be 
reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse- 
engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information 
storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, 
whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter 
invented, without the express written permission of 
HarperCollins e-books. 
www.harpercollinschildrens.com 


¡(KK 
Library of Congress Control Number: 2016949972 


ISBN 978-0-06-246768-3 (trade bdg.) 
ISBN 978-0-06-246769-0 (lib. bdg.) 
EPub Edition © October 2016 ISBN 9780062467713 


Sh h»_ hi™*i hm~_L™\“[ m 
16 17 18 19 20 cc/rrpH 10987654321 
. 
FIRST EDITION 


About the Publisher 


Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 


www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 
HarperCollins Canada 
2 Bloor Street East - 20th Floor 
Toronto, ON M4W 1A8, Canada 


www.harpercollins.ca 


New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 
Rosedale 0632 
Auckland, New Zealand 


www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
1 London Bridge Street 
London SE1 9GF, UK 


www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
195 Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 


www.harpercollins.com 


