+ x + = 


S | 
- *+ 
/ 


LEOPARDSTAR’S 
z HONOR 


ERIN HUNTER 


#1 NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLING AUTHOR 








SUPER EDITION 


LEOPARDSTAR’S 
HONOR 


ERIN 
HUNTER 


HARPER 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers 





Dedication 


Special thanks to Kate Cary 


Allegiances 


RIVERCLAN 
LEADER  HAILSTAR—thick-pelted gray tom 
DEPUTY SHELLHEART—dappled gray tom 


MEDICINE BRAMBLEBERRY—pretty white she-cat with 
CAT black-spotted fur, blue eyes, and a strikingly 
pink nose 


WARRIORS(toms, and she-cats without kits) 
RIPPLECLAW—black-and-silver tabby tom 
TIMBERFUR— brown tom 
MUDFUR—long-haired light brown tom 
OWLFUR—brown-and-white tom 
CEDARPELT—brown tabby tom, stout and 
short-tailed 
LILYS TEM—gray she-cat 
PIKETO O TH—skinny brown tabby tom with a 
narrow face and protruding canine teeth 
SOFIWING—small, lithe, white she-cat with 
tabby patches 
RAINFLO WER—pale gray she-cat 
FALLO WTAIL—light brown she-cat with blue 
eyes and soft fur 
CROOKEDJAW—huge light-colored tabby with 


UEENS 


a twisted jaw 

O AKHEART—teddish-brown tom with amber 
eyes 

GRAYPO O L—dark gray she-cat with yellow 
eyes 

BEETLENO SE—tom with crow-black fur 
WILLO WBREEZE—pale gray tabby she-cat with 
amber eyes 

VO LECLAW—-gray tom 
PETALDUST—tortoiseshell she-cat 
WHITEFANG—white tom with brown paws 
ECHO MIS T—long-haired gray she-cat, fur 
tipped with white to give her a soft, cloudy 
appearance 

MUDTHO RN—brown tom with black ears 
GRASSWHISKER—brown tabby she-cat 


(she-cats expecting or nursing kits) 

OTTERS PLASH—white-and-pale-ginger she-cat 
(mother to Sedgekit, a brown tabby she-kit, 
Loudkit, a dark brown tom, and Reedkit, a pale 
gray tabby tom) 

LAKESHINE— pretty, long-haired, gray-and- 
white she-cat (mother to Sunkit, a pale gray she- 
kit, and Frogkit, a dark gray tom) 
SHIMMERPELT—night-black she-cat with 
glossy pelt (mother to Skykit, a pale brown 


ELDERS 


LEADER 
DEPUTY 


tabby she-kit, and Blackkit, a black tom; 
fostering Leopardkit, an unusually spotted 
golden tabby she-kit) 

(former warriors and queens, now retired) 
TROUTCLAW—gray tabby tom 
TANGLEWHISKER—long-haired tabby tom with 
a thick, knotted pelt 

BIRDSO NG—tabby-and-white she-cat with 
ginger patches around her muzzle, flecked with 
gray 


THUNDERCLAN 
PINES TAR—red-brown tom with green eyes 


SUNFALL—bright ginger tom with yellow eyes 


MEDICINE GO OSEFEATHER—Speckled gray tom with pale 


CAT 


blue eyes 
APPRENTICE, FEATHERW HIS KER 


WARRIORSMO US EFUR—S mall brown she-cat 


PATC HPELT—small black and white tom 
RUNNINGWIND—light brown tabby tom 
WHITES TO RM—white tom 

WILLO WPELT— silver she-cat 

STO RMTAIL—blue-gray tom with blue eyes 
ADDERFANG—mottled brown tabby tom with 


yellow eyes 

APPRENTICE, THIS TLEPAW 

TAWNYSPO TS—light gray tabby tom with 
amber eyes 

APPRENTICE, ROS EPAW 

SPARRO WPELT—big, dark brown tabby tom 
with yellow eyes 

SMALLEAR—gray tom with very small ears and 
amber eyes 

APPRENTICE, SWEETPAW 

WHITE-EYE—pale gray she-cat 


THRUSHPELT—sandy-gray tom with white flash 
on his chest and green eyes 

PATC HPELT— small black-and-white tom with 
amber eyes 

BLUEFUR—thick-furred blue-gray she-cat with 
blue eyes 

FUZZY PELT—black tom with fur that stands on 
end and yellow eyes 

WINDFLIGHT—gray tabby tom with pale green 
eyes 

DAPPLETAIL—tortoises hell-and-white she-cat 
with amber eyes 


APPRENTICE, GOLDENPAW 
SPEC KLETAIL—pale tabby she-cat with amber 


eyes 
SWIFIBREEZE—tabby-and-white she-cat with 


UEENS 


ELDERS 


LEADER 


yellow eyes 
APPRENTICE, LIONPAW 
POPPYDAWN—long-haired, dark red she-cat 


with a bushy tail and amber eyes 


LEO PARDFO O T—black she-cat with green eyes 
(mother to Nightkit, a black she-cat; Mistkit, a 
gray she-cat; and Tigerkit, a dark brown tabby 
tom) 

SNO WFUR— white she-cat with blue eyes 
(mother to Whitekit, a white tom) 

RO BINWING— small, brown she-cat with a 
ginger patch on her chest and amber eyes 
(mother to Brindlekit, a pale gray tabby she-kit, 
and Frostkit, a white she-kit with blue eyes) 


WEEDWHISKER—pale orange tom with yellow 
eyes 

MUMBLEFO O T—brown tom, slightly clumsy, 
with amber eyes 

LARKSONG—tortoiseshell she-cat with pale 
green eyes 

STO NEPELT—gray tom 


SHADOWCLAN 


CEDARS TAR—very dark gray tom with a white 
belly 


DEPUTY RAGGEDPELT—large dark brown tabby tom 


MEDICINE SAGEWHISKER— white she-cat with long 
CAT whiskers 
APPRENTICE, YELLO W FANG 


WARRIORSFO XHEART—bright ginger she-cat 
CROWTAIL— black tabby she-cat 
DEERLEAP—gray tabby she-cat with white legs 
WOLFSTEP—tom with a torn ear 
MUDCLAW—gray tom with brown legs 
LIZARDS TRIPE—pale brown tabby she-cat with 
yellow eyes 
TO ADSKIP—dark brown tabby tom with white 
splashes and white legs 
SCORCHWIND— ginger tabby tom 
AMBERLEAF—dark ginger she-cat with brown 
legs and ears 
FINCHFLIGHT— black-and-white tom 

NUTWHISKER—brown tom with amber eyes 

RO WANBERRY—cream-and-brown she-cat with 

amber eyes 

NEWTS PEC K—black-and-ginger tabby she-cat 

ASHHEART— pale gray she-cat with blue eyes 

FRO GTAIL—dark gray tom 

MO USEWING—black tom with long, thick fur 





BOULDER—skinny gray tom 


BRACKENFO O T—pale ginger tom with dark 
ginger legs 

ARCHEYE—gray tabby tomwith black stripes 
and thick stripe over eye 

HO LLYFLO WER—dark-gray-and-white she-cat 
FEATHERS TO RM—brown tabby she-cat 
POOLCLO UD—gray-and-white she-cat 


JUEENS NETTLESPOT—white she-cat with ginger flecks 
(mother to Cloudkit, a white tom) 


ELDERS — LITILEBIRD—small ginger tabby she-cat 
LIZARDFANG—light brown tabby tom with one 
hooked tooth 
STO NETO O TH—gray tabby tom with long teeth 


WINDCLAN 
LEADER HEATHERSTAR—pinkish-gray she-cat with blue 
eyes 
DEPUTY REEDFEATHER—light brown tabby tom 
MEDICINE HAWKHEART—dark brown tom with yellow 
CAT eyes 
APPRENTICE, BARKFACE 
WARRIORSDAWNSTRIPE—pale gold tabby with creamy 
stripes 
TALLTAIL—large black-and-white tom with 


ELDERS 


amber eyes 

APPRENTICE, DEADPAW 

REDCLAW—dark ginger tom 

SHREW CLAW—dark brown tom with yellow 
eyes 

WOOLYTAIL—gray-and-white tom with bright 
yellow eyes 

STAGLEAP—dark brown tom with amber eyes 
APPRENTICE, SORRELPAW 

HICKO RYNOSE—brown tom 

APPRENTICE, FLYPAW 

APPLEDAWN—pale cream she-cat 

MEADO WSLIP—gray she-cat 

MIS TMO USE—light brown tabby she-cat 
APPRENTICE, BRIS TLEPAW 
HAREFLIGHT—light brown tom 
APPRENTICE, WRENPAW 

DOES PRING—light brown she-cat 
APPRENTICE, PIGEO NPAW 

LARKS PLASH—tortoiseshell-and-white she-cat 
AS PENFALL—gray-and-white tom 
PLUMCLAW—dark gray she-cat 
APPRENTICE, RABBITPAW 
PALEBIRD—black-and-white she-cat 
RYESTALK—gray tabby she-cat 


WHITEBERRY— small pure-white tom 


Maps 






































a See FA: 
7 = Weve el g & y A 


EIS 
SIA 


AMENITY TIP 


; $ 
den 














Contents 


Cover 

Title Page 
Dedication 
Allegiances 
Maps 


Prologue 
Chapter 1 
Chapter 2 
Chapter 3 
Chapter 4 
Chapter 5 
Chapter 6 
Chapter 7 
Chapter 8 
Chapter 9 
Chapter 10 
Chapter 11 
Chapter 12 
Chapter 13 
Chapter 14 
Chapter 15 
Chapter 16 


Chapter 17 
Chapter 18 
Chapter 19 
Chapter 20 
Chapter 21 
Chapter 22 
Chapter 23 
Chapter 24 
Chapter 25 
Chapter 26 
Chapter 27 
Chapter 28 
Chapter 29 
Chapter 30 
Chapter 31 
Chapter 32 
Chapter 33 
Chapter 34 
Chapter 35 


Exclusive Warriors Comic 
About the Author 

Books by Erin Hunter 
Back Ads 

Copyright 

About the Publisher 





PROLOGUE 
+ 


The Bonehill glowed beneath the moon. The heaped 
carcasses, stripped of flesh, reflected its clean, white light. 
For them, the worst was over now. Leopardstar pressed back 
a shiver; the leaf-bare chill reminded her of her own bones 
jutting beneath her pelt. It felt like it had been a long time 
since the prey-rich moons of greenleaf. 

She dared not lift her gaze to Silverpelt. Nor did she risk 
catching any of her Clanmates’ eyes. They had no choice 
but to watch. RiverClan was part of TigerClan now, and 
outnumbered in this clearing by former ShadowClan cats. 
Leopardstar had made a deal with the fierce tom. They must 
follow Tigerstar’s rules. 

Stonefur stood in front of the dark warrior while 
Featherpaw and Stormpaw huddled behind him, their eyes 
wide with fear. The apprentices had been imprisoned by 
Tigerstar for being the kits of a ThunderClan tom and a 
RiverClan queen. As Stonefur flattened his ears against his 
head, Tigerstar narrowed his eyes to slits. 

“I will give you a chance to show your loyalty to 
TigerClan,” the dark warrior told him. “Kill these two half- 
Clan apprentices.” 

Leopardstar’s blood ran cold. Surely, Tigerstar only 
meant to banish them! How could he order a warrior to kill 


his own Clanmates? And they were so young! It made no 
sense. Stonefur was half-Clan too. Leopardstar felt dread 
rising in her chest and throat like hot, scalding bile. Was this 
really what StarClan wanted? Was this the only way for the 
Clans to become strong? 

Stonefur was battered and starved from his confinement, 
but as he tumed his gaze to Leoparstar, his eyes seemed to 
bore right through her. “I take orders from you,” he growled 
darkly. “You must know this is wrong. What do you want me 
to do?” 

For a moment, Leopardstar could only stare at her 
deputy. What do you want me to do? What could she say? 
She risked a glance at Tigerstar, and was chilled by the 
hatred in his eyes. Not only for Stonefur, but for her. Jf I say 
no, she wondered, how much longer will I be alive to 
protect my Clan? 

“These are difficult times,” she replied finally, struggling 
to keep her voice steady. What would Tigerstar say? She felt 
sick. “As we fight for survival we must be able to count on 
every one of our Clanmates. There is no room for divided 
loyalties. Do as Tigerstar tells you.” StarClan, forgive me. 

Stonefur held her gaze for a moment, and she could see 
that something had changed inside him. Whereas he had 
tumed to her with hope, he now looked deeply 
disappointed. He took in a deep breath and turned to face 
the apprentices, who cowered in fear. 


After what seemed like an eternity, Stormfur gave a tiny 
nod at the apprentices and turned back to look at the 
TigerClan leader. “You’ll have to kill me first, Tigerstar.” 

Leopardstar clenched her teeth to keep from wailing in 
despair. Stonefur...dont do this! 

Tigerstar glared at the blue-gray tom, his tail twitching 
with menace. He signaled to his accomplice Darkstripe. “Kill 
him.” 

Leopardstar’s breath caught in her throat. She had to 
stop this. But she hesitated. If she did, she would seem 
weak. They’d be back where they’d started, at the mercy of 
the river and the forest and the other Clans. She had no 
choice but to follow through. And yet the words ached to be 
spoken. Stop! Stop this now! She pressed them back. She 
could not back down. 

She tried not to flinch, horror shrilling though every hair 
on her pelt, as Darkstripe leaped at Stonefur Though 
battered and exhausted, Stonefur managed to haul his 
attacker to the ground and dig his claws into the warrior’s 
throat. Pride seemed to move deep inside her as she watched 
her deputy fight fiercely against the cruel tabby. 

Kill him! Leopardstar found herself willing Stonefur on. 
Then she froze. She couldn’t think like that! This had to 
happen. The half-Clan cats must die. Once this was over, 
Tigerstar’s vision for a single Clan that united all the 
warriors of the forest could prevail. It was the only way 


RiverClan could survive the floods and fires that had 
battered them like whirling claws, over and over again, 
keeping them hungry in leaf-bare, and the Twoleg incursions 
that made them vulnerable every greenleaf. This was the 
only way forward. It was the choice she had made when 
she’d agreed RiverClan and ShadowClan should join 
together to become TigerClan. 

Every instinct within her was trying to pull her gaze 
away from the fight, but she told herself that the least she 
owed her deputy was to watch the sacrifice he was making, 
for the good of RiverClan. 

“Finish it.” Tigerstar flicked his ears at Blackfoot, and his 
deputy shot forward and dragged Stonefur off Darkstripe. 
Together the vicious warriors turned on the RiverClan 
deputy, and as Darkstripe held him down, Blackfoot scored 
his claws across Stonefur’s throat. 

Stonefur struggled, then fell still, his blood staining the 
ground. 

Around the clearing, Tigerstar’s warriors yowled 
jubilantly. Leopardstar’s Clanmates eyed each other fearfully 
before joining in, their calls barely audible at first, but soon 
rising to match the others. Only Featherpaw and Stormpaw 
remained silent. Leopardstar was aware of Featherpaw’s 
horrified gaze lifting from Stonefur’s body and fixing on her 
like a judgment. She could not meet it, but looked across the 
clearing at the heavy bulrushes swaying darkly beneath the 


moon. 

She hardly heard Tigerstar announcing that Featherpaw 
and Stormpaw would not die today but would return to their 
prison, and she stood stiff and silent as TigerClan melted 
away, heading back to the camp. Only when the clearing had 
emptied did her numbness begin to ease. In its place, doubt 
crawled beneath her pelt. The scent of Stonefur’s blood 
flooded her mouth, bathing her tongue with its sour tang. 
She padded reluctantly forward and stopped beside his 
body. 

Mudfur had asked her whether joining TigerClan was the 
right thing to do. There had always been four Clans in the 
forest. Why should that change? She’d told him they 
needed to be stronger—to be the strongest—and he’d 
shaken his head in disappointment. There are things more 
important than being strong. His words rang in her head as 
she leaned down and touched her nose to Stonefur’s cold 
and matted pelt. 

How did I get here? She hadn’t always been this 
heartless. Even a few moons ago, she would have defended 
Stonefur with her life. The thought pricked her heart like a 
thorn. Every choice she’d made in her life had brought her 
closer to this moment. Had she led RiverClan along the 
wrong path? 

Leopardstar lifted her head. She couldn’t lose her nerve 
now. Mudfur was old; he’d been a warrior under 


Crookedstar, and then a medicine cat. He’d been bom in a 
different time, when all RiverClan had to do was dip a paw 
into the river to scoop out a fish. He didn’t understand that 
the forest had changed, that life was harder—that there were 
now only difficult choices to be made. 

Leopardstar squared her shoulders against the cold as 
clouds began to trail across Silverpelt. TigerClan would make 
her warriors strong. They would never again have to give up 
territory. They would never again go to their nests with 
empty bellies. Other cats would fear them. If her Clanmates 
couldn’t be strong enough to face the future she had 
planned, she would have to be strong for them. It was the 
only way to keep them safe. 





CHAPTER 1 
Se 


Leopardkit jumped to her paws. “Lets play hide-and-seek!” 

She looked around eagerly at her denmates. They’d been 
lying around for ages. Frogkit, Sunkit, and Loudkit had been 
drowsing in the bright greenleaf sunshine after sharing a 
trout that Graypool had fished from the river. Blackkit, 
Skykit, and Reedkit had been giving their faces and paws a 
thorough wash. Leopardkit had gotten so bored that she’d 
wondered whether to try hunting the large, lazy dragonfly 
humming among the reeds behind them. But a game would 
be more fun. Her pelt tingled excitedly as the others 
scrambled to their paws. 

Sedgekit swished her long tabby tail. “Pll be hunter!” 
She dropped onto the ground and pressed her paws over 
her muzzle. “Every cat hide!” 

“Keep your eyes closed, Sedgekit!” Leopardkit told her. 
“You’re not allowed to look until we’ve all hidden.” 

“If Pve got my eyes closed, how will I know when 
you’ve all hidden?” Sedgekit’s mew was muffled. 

Shimmerpelt was weaving willow stems among the reeds 
to strengthen the den wall. “PI tell you!” she called. 

Leopardkit whisked her tail, happy that her foster mother 
was watching. “Make sure she doesn’t peek,” she told 
Shimmerpelt. 


Shimmerpelt nodded gravely. “Of course.” 

“And give me time to hide properly.” 

“That’s cheating!” Skykit sniffed. “She’s not allowed to 
help you.” 

Leopardkit puffed out her chest. “It’s not helping,” she 
mewed. “It’s just making sure Sedgekit sticks to the rules.” 

Loudkit looked indignant. “Sedgekit always sticks to the 
tules.” 

“She doesn’t even cheat at moss-ball,” Reedkit chimed 
in. “Take that back, Leopardkit!” 

Leopardkit looked at them. The three kits always 
defended each other It must be because they were 
littermates and not just nestmates. She wondered if Skykit 
and Blackkit would stick up for her like that if Shimmerpelt 
were her real mother. 

“Hurry up!” Frogkit plucked impatiently at the hot, 
sandy earth. 

Sunkit flicked her tail at him. “Leopardkit’s just making 
sure it’s fair.” 

“Leopardkit talks too much,” Frogkit complained. 

“She can talk as much as she likes,” Sunkit snipped 
back. 

Leopardkit blinked at her friend gratefully. Sunkit stuck 
up for her, even though they weren’t littermates or 
nestmates. Maybe some cats were just kinder than others. 

She turned away from Skykit. “Let’s go!” 


Charging away, she sped across the clearing. Her paws 
burned with the effort. The other kits were older and bigger; 
if she didn’t try her best, they’d outrun her, and she wanted 
to make sure she found a good hiding place before they 
stole them all. 

Piketooth looked up at her from the mallow leaves he 
was helping Brambleberry spread in the sunshine to dry. 
“You’re faster than a fish!” he purred as she streaked past. 

Leopardkit glanced over her shoulder. Frogkit and Sunkit 
were pushing their way into the sedge next to the elders’ 
den. Blackkit had scrambled into the willow tree that 
overlooked the warriors’ den. Loudkit and Reedkit were 
heading for the shadows between its roots. Skykit had 
stopped in the middle of the sunny clearing and was looking 
around, clearly scanning the camp fora place to hide. 

“Over here.” Ottersplash’s hushed mew made Leopardkit 
turn. The white-and-ginger she-cat was Sedgekit, Loudkit, 
and Reedkit’s mother, and she was outside the nursery with 
Lakeshine. The queens had been sharing tongues while their 
kits played, but Ottersplash was leaning forward now, 
beckoning Leopardkit toward her with a nod. Leopardkit 
hurried over. “Hide behind us,” Ottersplash whispered. 

Lakeshine shifted to let Leopardkit slide between them. 
“We’ll pretend we haven’t seen you.” 

Leopardkit ducked down behind the two queens as they 
pressed together, blocking Leopardkit from view. 


Shimmerpelt’s mew rang out over the clearing. “The prey 
is hidden!” she called to Sedgekit. 

Leopardkit quivered with anticipation. Would Sedgekit 
find her? 

“Be as quiet as you can,” Ottersplash warned Leopardkit 
in a whisper. “Sedgekit is a good hunter.” 

“I'm good prey,” Leopardkit mewed back. 

Lakeshine’s pelt twitched. “Sedgekit’s coming this way.” 

Leopardkit held her breath, fighting the urge to peek out. 

Sedgekit’s mew sounded in front of the queens. “Have 
you seen Leopardkit?” 

Ottersplash flicked her muzzle toward the medicine den. 
“Have you looked over there?” 

“She’s probably hiding behind the apprentices’ den,” 
Lakeshine added. The queen’s fur tickled Leopardkit’s nose, 
and she held back a sneeze and pressed her belly harder 
against the earth. The hot greenleaf sun warmed her golden 
dappled pelt, and her ears were so hot she had to force them 
not to twitch as Sedgekit’s paw steps pattered back and 
forth in front of the queens. 

“Are you sure you haven’t seen her?” Sedgekit sounded 
unconvinced. Leopardkit could picture her denmate tasting 
the air suspiciously and wished now she’d cleaned the fishy 
smell of the carp from her whiskers like the others. 

“We're sure.” Lakeshine’s pelt brushed Leopardkit’s 
nose once more. 


This time it tickled until Leopardkit could not hold back 
the sneeze. 

Sedgekit darted around Lakeshine, and her pelt fluffed as 
she spotted Leopardkit. “You lied!” As her denmate glared 
indignantly at Lakeshine, Leopardkit saw a chance to 
escape. 

She pelted across the clearing, looking back over her 
shoulder to see if Sedgekit was following. “It doesn’t count 
unless you catch—” She crashed into a wall of thick fur, lost 
her footing, and tumbled between four hefty paws. A pale 
brown belly blocked the sky, and she rolled out from 
beneath it and scrambled to her paws. “Sorry, Crookedjaw!” 

The huge warrior blinked at her warmly. “Are you okay?” 

But Leopardkit was looking back at the nursery. Sedgekit 
was charging toward her. “If she catches me, Pll lose!” she 
gasped. 

Crookedjaw seemed to understand. He grabbed her 
scruff between his teeth and swung her up onto his 
shoulders. “Hang on,” he told her his deep mew 
reverberating through his pelt. Leopardkit dug her claws into 
his thick fur and clung on as Crookedjaw bounded away. 

Sedgekit chased after him. “Hey!” she squealed crossly. 
“That’s cheating!” 

Leopardkit lifted her muzzle from Crookedjaw’s thick ruff 
and glimpsed Skykit crouching beside the wall of the 
apprentices’ den. Her brown tabby pelt was hardly visible in 


the shadow, but Leopardkit could see her green eyes 
flashing. 

“Skykit!” She called her name as loudly as she could, so 
that Sedgekit could hear. “I can see you!” She pointed her 
muzzle toward the apprentices’ den, relief swamping her as 
Sedgekit pricked her ears and veered away toward Skykit’s 
hiding place. 

“That’s not fair!” Leopardkit could hear Skykit’s 
outraged mew as Crookedjaw carried her away. She’d 
escaped! She felt a rush of joy, but then Crookedjaw pulled 
up suddenly, and she had to dig her claws deeper into his 
fur as he scrambled to a halt at the camp entrance. 

“Don’t stop!” she wailed. What if Sedgekit came after 
her again? 

But Crookedjaw was already nodding a greeting to the 
afternoon hunting patrol as it filed back into camp. 
Leopardkit’s heart leaped as she saw her father heading it. 
Mudfur held a shiny silver carp in his jaws. Behind him 
Oakheart, Beetlenose, and Echomist were carrying river prey 
too. 

Mudfur dropped the carp and nodded toward 
Leopardkit, his eyes shining. “That’s a pretty big tick on 
your shoulder,” he told Crookedjaw. 

“Tm not a tick!” She slithered from Crookedjaw’s back. 
“It's me! Leopardkit!” She wove around him and ducked 
through the cool shadow beneath his belly. 


He purred as she emerged into the sunshine once more. 
“What have you been doing?” he asked her. 

“Playing hide-and-seek.” She nodded toward the 
apprentices’ den, where Sedgekit was nosing Skykit 
triumphantly fromthe shadows. 

Skykit shot Leopardkit an angry look. 

“Come on, Skykit.” Sedgekit whisked her tail. “Help me 
find the others.” She steered Skykit toward the warriors’ den. 

“Did you get caught?” Mudfur asked Leopardkit. 

“Crookedjaw helped me get away,” Leopardkit puffed 
out her chest. “Thanks, Crookedjaw.” 

“You shouldn’t indulge her,’ Mudfur told him. “She 
needs to stand on her own four paws.” 

Echomist purred. “You’re a fine one to talk, Mudfur.” She 
nudged his catch with her paw. “We’d have been back 
before sunhigh if you hadn’t insisted on bringing a carp 
home for Leopardkit.” 

Leopardkit nuzzled Mudfur’s shoulder. “That’s my 
favorite,” she purred. “Thanks.” 

As Mudfur nuzzled her back, Sedgekit called across the 
clearing. “Come on, Leopardkit!” She was beside the 
warriors’ den, her tail high as Blackkit slithered down the 
willow tree and Loudkit and Reedkit squeezed out from 
among the roots. “I’ve found every cat! Blackkit’s going to 
be hunter this time.” 

Mudfur whisked Leopardkit forward with his tail. “Go 


and play,” he mewed. 

“Okay.” She blinked at him, happy he was back in camp. 
“But make sure no one takes my carp from the fresh-kill pile 
while Pm playing!” 

As Leopardkit turned away, she heard Echomist’s 
affectionate mew: “You spoil that kit, Mudfur.” 

“Tt doesn’t seem to do her any harm,” Mudfur purred 
back. 

Leopardkit reached her denmates. She looked between 
them, searching their faces for any signs that they were 
annoyed at her for winning, or for giving away Skykit’s 
position. “No cat can use the same hiding place again, 
right?” 

“Yeah.” Skykit purred, as if excited to play again. 
Leopardkit was relieved to see that the brown tabby she-kit 
did not seemangry with her. “You ready, Blackkit?” 

Blackkit dropped into a crouch and covered his muzzle 
with his paws. 

Sunkit and Frogkit darted away, heading toward the 
elders’ den. Loudkit followed Sedgekit and Reedkit as they 
raced for the thick sedge growing at the far end of the 
clearing. Leopardkit glanced around, wondering where to 
hide. Would Hailstar mind if she hid in his den? Maybe 
Brambleberry would let her hide in the herb store. 

“Come with me,” Skykit whispered. “I know a great 
place.” 


“Okay.” Leopardkit’s heart quickened. She raced after 
her nestmate to the reeds edging the camp. The ground was 
marshy here, and soon she was splashing through shallow 
water, mud between her claws, as Skykit pushed her way 
deeper and deeper into the reed bed. She began to slow. 
Mudfur would be mad at her ifhe knew she was playing this 
close to the river, when she’d only just learned to swim. 
“Wait—” 

Skykit turned as she called out and waded back toward 
her. 

Leopardkit saw a flash of annoyance in her nestmate’s 
eyes. “We shouldn’t go so close to the riv—” 

Before she could finish, Skykit grabbed her scruff with 
her forepaws and pushed her head under. 

Water rushed up her nose and into her mouth. Panic 
pulsed beneath Leopardkit’s pelt. She thrashed her paws in 
the water, trying to struggle free from Skykit’s grip. But 
Skykit was two moons older and stronger, and she suddenly 
realized she was helpless. Flailing desperately, she fought 
the instinctive urge to breathe, as her pounding heart tried 
to claw its way out of her chest. 

Then Skykit let go. 

Leopardkit pushed up with her paws and burst dripping 
from the water. She shook her head and then her body, 
spraying water among the reeds. She coughed, regaining her 
breath, and then glared at Skykit. “What was that?” She 


could hardly believe Skykit could be so nasty. 

Skykit glared at her. “That's for telling Sedgekit where I 
was hiding!” 

“I only told her because she was chasing me!” 
Leopardkit bristled. “You didn’t have to try to drown me!” 
Water was still running from her nose and whiskers. 

“Don’t be so dramatic,” Skykit snapped. “Stop thinking 
you’re so special, just because every cat makes a fuss over 
you. You still act like a newborn kit! That’s why Blackkit and 
I don’t like playing with you. We only do it because 
Shimmerpelt makes us.” 

Hurt pierced Leopardkit’s heart. Dont like playing with 
me? They only played with her because they had to? She 
bristled. It wasn’t fair. She’d thought they were friends. “I’m 
going to tell Shimmerpelt what you did,’ she murmured, 
keeping her jaws almost closed, to make sure she didn’t wail 
like a newborn. “Then you’ll be in real trouble . . . and it'll 
serve you right!” 

Skykit sniffed. “Go on, Leopardkit,” she mewed. “Run 
away and tattle. That’s what newborn kits always do.” 

Leopardkit could hardly believe her ears. Why was 
Skykit being so spiteful? Her heart pounded in her chest. 

Skykit hadn’t finished. “You only get special treatment 
because Brightsky died,” she mewed. “If you hadn’t killed 
your own mother, the rest of the Clan wouldn’t even bother 
with you.” 


“I didn’t kill my mother,” she hissed back, feeling her 
claws stretching out. 

“That’s not what I heard around camp.” Skykit’s green 
eyes twinkled with a malicious glee. “I heard your mother 
was sick when you were born. What could have made her 
sick? Probably a rotten kit, that’s what!” 

“Don’t say that!” Leopardkit wanted to shut Skykit up 
and hurt her back. She lashed out, swinging her paw at the 
brown tabby’s muzzle, but Skykit blocked it with her own 
paw and cuffed Leopardkit around the ear. Leopardkit 
staggered under the weight of the blow. 

“You’re going to end up in the Dark Forest,” Skykit 
snarled, “with all the other murderers.” 

Leopardkit stared at her, the water around her paws 
suddenly feeling like ice. It seemed to drag her down until 
she had to struggle to stay standing. Skykit pushed past her 
and splashed away between the reeds. Leopardkit opened 
her mouth to call after her, to ask if Skykit had really heard 
cats say such terrible things. But the words didn’t come. 

She was afraid of what Skykit would say. 


As the sun shone over the camp the next morning, 
Leopardkit still felt the sting of Skykit’s words. They hadn’t 
spoken since, and last night in their nest, Leopardkit had 
wriggled into the warm space behind Shimmerpelt, as far 
away from Skykit and Blackkit as she could get. She’d 
enjoyed sleeping without their annoying paws poking her 


flank, or their stupid tails flicking her ears. She didn’t want to 
be anywhere near them now that she knew how they really 
felt about her. 

Crouching in the shadow of the sedge that ringed the 
camp, Leopardkit watched them playing moss-ball with 
Loudkit, Sunkit, and Reedkit while Frogkit chased Sedgekit 
around the warriors’ den. 

“Come and play!” Sunkit called to her as she sent the 
moss ball high into the air and Loudkit and Blackkit leaped 
to see who could catch it first. 

Leopardkit tucked her paws tighter beneath her. There 
was no way she was going to join in and spoil their fun. She 
glanced at Skykit. Her nestmate was looking at her, but as 
Leopardkit caught her eye, she quickly looked away. Was 
that guilt in her gaze? I hope so, Leopardkit huffed. 

“Come on.” Sunkit was bounding toward her. “Join in! 
You must be bored sitting there by yourself.” 

“Tm too tired to play,” Leopardkit told her. She didn’t 
want to confide in Sunkit her real reason for not playing. She 
didn’t want to repeat Skykit’s words. You re going to end up 
in the Dark Forest with all the other murderers. Her pelt felt 
hot just remembering them. 

Sunkit stopped in front of her and frowned. “Are you 
sure?” she asked. 

“Tm sure.” Leopardkit faked a yawn to convince Sunkit 
just how tired she was. 


Sunkit looked at her for another moment, then flicked her 
tail. “Join in after you’ve rested,” she mewed, and headed 
back toward the others, breaking into a run as the moss ball 
rolled toward her. 

Leopardkit watched her go, her legs twitching like she 
was going to stand up and run after Sunkit—until a fresh 
wave of hurt pushed her back down, dragging into her mind 
all the thoughts that had kept her awake the night before. 
Was Skykit right? Had she really killed her mother, her 
littermates? Mudfur never really spoke of it. Was that what 
the rest of the Clan thought of her? Leopardkit glanced 
toward Shimmerpelt and Ottersplash, who were dragging the 
nests from the nursery to air them in the sunshine. Do they 
think its my fault that Brightsky died? She’d been told that 
her mother had been sick, but no cat had ever said a queen 
could be made sick by her kit. That sounded impossible. 

But why would Skykit say she had if it was impossible? 

Her thoughts chased each other, like fish swimming 
around and around. Am I bad? The idea made her queasy. 
She didn’t want to be bad, but what if she couldn’t help it? 
There had to be some reason that Brightsky had died. Other 
kits’ mothers didn’t die. Only hers. 

“Leopardkit?” Mudfur’s mew took her by surprise. She 
looked up and saw him stop beside her. Worry clouded his 
yellow eyes. “Why are sitting by yourself? Why aren’t you 
playing with the other kits?” 


She blinked at him and got to her paws. He’d know the 
truth. Her ears twitched nervously. Should she ask himif she 
had killed Brightsky? What if he said yes? 

He blinked at her anxiously. “You’re upset, aren’t you?” 

She looked at her paws. “It was something some cat 
said,” she mewed. 

“Who?” 

“Tt doesn’t matter.” There was no point blaming Skykit. If 
she thought it, the rest of the Clan must believe it too. 

“What did they say?” Mudfur pressed gently. 

Leopardkit hesitated, her heart pounding. She needed to 
know. If it was true, she’d just have to accept it and try to 
make up for what she’d done by being the best warrior she 
could be, and protecting her Clanmates. She didn’t want to 
end up in the Dark Forest. 

Mudfur ran his tail gently along her spine. “Tell me.” 

She met his gaze. “Did I kill Brightsky?” 

His eyes widened. 

It made her nervous. He looked like he didn’t want to 
have this discussion. 

Because it 5 true? 

“No, Leopardkit,” he mewed, pressing his muzzle to her 
head. “Of course you didn’t kill Brightsky.” He pulled away 
and looked at her. “Your mother was sick... .” 

“Because of me?” 

“No, little one. It was... . just a sickness. Brambleberry 


couldn’t help her. Your littermates died with her. None of it 
was your fault.” His eyes began to glisten. “I’m just thankful 
that StarClan spared you.” 

“Really?” She realized that she could breathe again. She 
didn’t know she’d stopped. She searched her father’s gaze. 
He was telling the truth. She could see it in his round, 
anxious eyes. 

“Have the other kits been taunting you about it?” 
Mudfur didn’t wait for an answer. He’d clearly guessed why 
she’d asked him about Brightsky. “You shouldn’t listen to 
them,” he mewed. “They’re probably jealous because you’re 
special.” 

“Am I?” Leopardkit looked at him hopefully. “Skykit said 
I wasn’t. She said I was just different.” 

“You are special,” Mudfur mewed. “I think StarClan 
saved you fora reason.” 

A reason? Leopardkit’s thoughts whirled. What could it 
be? 

“Not long after Brightsky died,” Mudfur went on, “when 
you were still a tiny kit, I had a dream. Brightsky told me to 
take good care of you because you’d be important to 
RiverClan one day.” 

“How?” Leopardkit blinked at him eagerly. She liked the 
idea of being important. 

“She didn’t say,” Mudfur answered. “She just said that 
one day you’d be important to RiverClan. To all the Clans,” 


he added. 

“All the Clans?” Leopardkit’s ears twitched with 
surprise. Being important to all the Clans sounded hard. 

Mudfur’s gaze had wandered, as though he was 
picturing his lost mate. “That dream, along with my love for 
you, is what gave me the strength to go on, even though I 
miss Brightsky so much it still hurts to remember her.” He 
blinked away the sadness glistening in his eyes and focused 
on Leopardkit once more. “I think one day you’ll show us all 
why StarClan spared you.” 

Leopardkit fluffed out her fur. StarClan had saved her for 
a reason. She couldn’t wait for Skykit to see her save all the 
Clans. “Can I start my warrior training early?” she asked 
Mudfur. She had so much to learn; there wasn’t a moment to 
waste. 

“You’re too small.” His pelt prickled along his spine. 
“And being a warrior is harder than you think. You’ve still 
got some growing up to do.” 

But I have to save the Clans. Leopardkit frowned. Didn’t 
Mudfur understand? The Clans were depending on her. She 
curled her claws into the earth. If StarClan had saved her for 
a reason, then she needed to learn every battle move and 
hunting skill that she could. She was going to become the 
noblest, strongest, bravest warrior RiverClan had ever 
known. 





CHAPTER 2 
Se 


Leopardkit shook the water from her paws and shuddered. 
Crossing the stepping-stones had been scarier than she’d 
imagined—they were so far apart, and the river had swirled 
hungrily between them as though it were hoping she’d fall 
in. But this was the only way out of camp, and she didn’t 
want to try swimming. She hurried into the reeds before 
anyone could see her and hoped none of the other kits 
would wonder where she’d gone. 

She wove between the stems, keeping out of sight. 
Graypool and Willowbreeze had already followed the shore 
as far as the bulrushes and had taken a path away from the 
river. She’d overheard them planning to hunt frogs in the 
water meadow. If Mudfur refused to teach her any hunting 
skills before she became a ’paw, then she’d have to learn by 
herself. She wasn’t ready to catch fish yet, but frog hunting 
would be a useful skill, and her mentor would be impressed 
by how much she knew when she started her training. 

Graypool and Willowbreeze were following a narrow 
path, and Leopardkit shadowed them through the reeds until 
they opened onto a wide stretch of grass. She watched them 
cross the water meadow to a puddle that shimmered like a 
heat haze beneath the hot sun. They began to sniff around 
the edge. 


Graypool dropped suddenly into a crouch, her ears 
pricking. Willowbreeze froze a tail-length behind. As a frog 
leaped into the shallow pool, Graypool lunged after it. 
Leopardkit blinked. She was so fast! The frog hadn’t even 
hit the water before Graypool caught it and hooked it toward 
her. With a swift bite, she killed it and sat back on her 
haunches. 

“Good catch,” Willowbreeze mewed, but her gaze was 
already scanning the next pool. 

Leopardkit leaned farther forward, her pelt tingling. She 
wanted to try lunging and throwing her paws out just like 
Graypool had, but she’d make the reeds rattle and the 
warriors might hear her. She’d practice later, when she was 
back in camp. She knew that if she tried, she could be as fast 
as Graypool—perhaps faster if she practiced enough. 

Willowbreeze was stalking toward the next pool. 
Leopardkit noticed how the warrior’s ears were half flattened 
against her head and how she kept her belly low and her tail 
skimming the grass. The silver tabby moved one paw at a 
time, placing each gently on the grass as she drew herself 
forward. Leopardkit tried to mimic her, moving between the 
reeds as slowly and silently as she could, watching 
Willowbreeze out of the comer of her eye as she copied 
every careful step. 

Her attention was fixed so intently on Willowbreeze that 
when the rushes swished behind her, she barely noticed. 


Only when a familiar scent washed her tongue did her heart 
lurch. She jerked around as snowy fur flashed between the 
stems and Whitefang pushed the reeds aside with his broad 
shoulders. 

He stared at her sternly. “What are you doing out of 
camp?” 

She gave him an apologetic mew. “I’m sorry.” She 
nodded toward Graypool and Willowbreeze. “I came to 
watch them. I thought the meadow would be safe to learn 
how to hunt.” 

Whitefang grunted. “Nowhere outside camp is safe fora 
kit,” he murmured. “You don’t even know how to stay low 
and keep out of sight.” 

“But I’m trying to learn,” she mewed earnestly. “Look!” 
She began to copy Willowbreeze’s stalking technique once 
more. 

Whitefang watched her “Your tail’s too high.” He 
stepped toward her. “When you’re hunting, your tail should 
never be higher than your spine. It will give you away.” 

Leopardkit let her tail droop. “Is that better?” 

“Now you're dragging it along the ground.” Whitefang 
nosed the tip a little higher. “There.” He stepped back. “Try 
again.” 

Leopardkit began to stalk once more, remembering to 
flatten her ears. 

“Keep your ears from twitching,” Whitefang told her. 


“That’s right. Now crouch a little lower. Yes, that’s good.” 

Excitement began to fizz in Leopardkit’s fur. She was 
training, like a real ’paw. 

“Let the air flow over your tongue,” Whitefang added. 

Leopardkit opened her mouth. The scent of wet soil and 
damp stems filled it. She was surprised to find they smelled 
mustier than the reeds around the camp. Were other smells 
different too? A thought popped into her mind. “Does live 
prey smell the same as dead prey?” she asked. She’d only 
smelled the dead prey that patrols brought back from 
hunting. 

“That’s a smart question.” Whitefang looked impressed. 
“Live prey smells sweeter and more delicate, but a frog still 
smells like a frog and a fish smells like a fish.” 

“Can we look for a live frog so I can learn what it smells 
like?” Leopardkit looked at him hopefully. 

Whitefang’s gaze lit up as though he wanted to show 
her, and she pricked her ears, excited. Then he frowned. 
“Mudfur will be mad if he thinks Pve been training you,” he 
mewed. He jerked his muzzle toward the camp. “T’d better get 
you home.” 

Leopardkit dug her paws into the marshy ground. “Can’t 
we train just a little more?” 

“Tf Mudfur notices you’re missing—” 

“You could tell him I’m ready to be a ’paw,” she pressed 
hopefully. “He’d listen to you.” 


“Mudfur doesn’t listen to any cat when it comes to his 
kit,” Whitefang mewed. “Come on. We should head back.” 

Leopardkit sighed. “Are you going to tell himI sneaked 
out of camp?” 

Whitefang pushed the reeds apart and nodded her 
through the gap he’d made. “T’'ll have to,” he told her. “You 
smell like meadow water.” 

Leopardkit padded past him. She was still determined to 
learn as much as she could while she was out of camp. 
“Does meadow water smell different from river water?” 

He padded after her. “Taste the air,” he mewed. 

She let it stream over her tongue. It was tinged with 
sweetness. 

As they pushed their way from the reeds and padded 
along the riverbank, he spoke again. “Taste it now.” 

She opened her mouth, surprised she hadn’t noticed the 
difference earlier. “Meadow water tastes like grass,” she 
mewed. “River water tastes like stone.” 

“Exactly,” Whitefang mewed. “Of course, it changes with 
the weather.” 

“How?” 

“When it rains and the river’s churned up, it tastes more 
like mud,” Whitefang mewed. “And in leaf-bare it changes 
again. The cold sharpens the scent of the river, and the 
meadow tastes of peat.” 

Leopardkit’s pelt prickled with eagerness. There was so 


much to learn! 

She hardly noticed they’d reached the stepping-stones. 
Her chest tightened as she saw them. Since Skykit’s cruel 
attack, she’d felt less confident about swimming than she 
had before. She shivered. Even now, as she saw the river 
swirling around the stones, she could feel the panic that had 
gripped her when water had flooded into her mouth and 
nose. 

Whitefang paused beside her. “It’s probably safer if I 
carry you across.” He grabbed her scruff between his teeth 
and scooped her up. Her relief at not having to cross the 
stones turned to hot embarrassment as he carried her all the 
way into camp. 

Sunkit and Frogkit were chasing a butterfly across the 
clearing. They stopped and stared at her in surprise as 
Whitefang put her down. 

“Where have you been?” Sunkit mewed, her eyes wide. 

Leopardkit stuck out her chin. “I went for a walk.” 

“Come on.” Whitefang swished her forward with his tail. 
“You'd better explain yourself to Hailstar.” 

Hailstar? She glanced at Whitefang. Did he have to 
report her to the RiverClan leader? “But—” 

“It’s best to tell him now,” Whitefang mewed. He steered 
her toward the leader’s den, woven among the roots of a 
willow tree. Leopardkit’s legs stiffened. 

Whitefang gently stroked her flank with his tail. “Go 


on... . He’ll find out anyway. You know how quickly news 
gets around the Clan.” 

Leopardkit wondered what the punishment would be for 
not going to see Hailstar. For turning and running away, and 
only coming back when this had been forgotten. 

But Whitefang was right—Hailstar was going to find 
out. And, she thought, I’m going to convince my Clanmates 
I’m ready to begin my apprenticeship, I should act like a 
paw and show some responsibility. She puffed out her 
chest and padded ahead of himas though she wanted to see 
the Clan leader. 

Mudfur looked up from the fresh-kill pile as they passed. 
He’d been rummaging for prey. “Leopardkit? Where are you 
going?” 

Leopardkit felt a wave of dismay. “Hi, Mudfur.” She tried 
to sound bright. It wasn’t like she’d done anything really 
wrong. She’d just been trying to leam. But Mudfur’s 
questioning gaze had switched to Whitefang. 

“Has something happened?” he asked the snowy warrior 
anxiously. 

“I caught her near the water meadow,” Whitefang told 
him. 

“Outside camp?” Mudfur hurried toward them, pelt 
ruffling. 

“Tm taking her to see Hailstar,’ Whitefang told him. “To 
explain herself.” 


Leopardkit’s fur was prickling self-consciously. “There’s 
not much to explain,” she mewed. “I wanted to learn how to 
hunt frogs, that’s all.” 

Whitefang nudged her forward and she padded to the 
entrance of Hailstar’s den. Mudfur was following; she could 
feel his gaze burning her pelt. 

“Wait there,’ Whitefang told her as they reached the 
root den, and he disappeared through the moss trailing over 
the entrance. 

Leopardkit glanced guiltily at her father. 

His eyes were glittering with worry. “What in StarClan 
were you doing outside camp?” 

“Nothing bad happened,” she told him. “I was just—” 

“Come in, Leopardkit.” Hailstar’s mew sounded through 
the moss. 

She hesitated, and Mudfur swished her forward with his 
tail. 

“Go on,” he mewed. 

Paws pricking nervously, she nosed her way inside, 
relieved when Mudfur followed. 

Hailstar was sitting beside his nest, his gray pelt dark in 
the shadowy den. Whitefang stood beside him, looking 
grave. 

She braced herself for a scolding, but Hailstar was 
looking at her thoughtfully. “It’s not safe for a young kit to 
be out of camp,” he mewed. 


“Pm not a young kit,” she objected. “I'll be ready to 
become a ’paw in a moon or two!” 

“Three moons,” Mudfur corrected. 

Hailstar’s ears twitched, but his expression betrayed 
nothing. Was he angry or amused? “One moon or three, 
you’re still too young to be out of camp,” he mewed. 

“You’ve had no training,” Mudfur chimed. “And you’re 
still small enough for a hawk to steal you. You should never 
be more than a tail-length froma warrior.” 

Leopardkit stuck out her tail indignantly. “That doesn’t 
make sense,” she mewed. “When we’re playing moss-ball, 
we’re always more than a tail-length—” 

“Hush.” Hailstar silenced her with a flick of his tail. “It’s 
against Clan rules fora kit to leave camp,” he mewed. “If you 
want to become a warrior, the first thing you need to learn is 
to follow rules.” 

Leopardkit opened her jaws to argue some more; then 
her gaze sank down toward the space between her paws. 
She couldn’t argue against the warrior code. 

Hailstar’s expression softened. “It won’t be long before 
you begin your training. And then you’ll wish you were 
allowed to stay in camp from time to time. Just wait a moon 
or two—” 

“Three moons,” Mudfur corrected him. 

“Ican’t wait three moons,” Leopardkit complained. “The 
other kits will be apprentices by then. I don’t want to be the 





last kit left in the nursery.” 

Hailstar narrowed his eyes thoughtfully. “It must be hard 
when you’ve grown up together—” 

Mudfur cut in. “It’s our duty to keep you safe until 
you’re big enough to start training.” 

“Pll eat extra prey,” Leopardkit mewed. “Dll grow as big 
as Blackkit and you’ll have to make me an apprentice.” 

Hailstar’s whiskers twitched. Did he think this was 
funny? 

“T mean it!” Leopardkit insisted. 

“Pmsure you do,” Hailstar mewed. 

Frustration itched beneath Leopardkit’s pelt. She had to 
start training soon. RiverClan’s future might depend on it. 
“Whitefang would train me now if you let him.” She looked 
imploringly at the white warrior. He’d shown her how to stalk 
today. He clearly thought she was ready. And he was so 
kind and strong, she knew she could learn a lot from him. 
“He doesn’t think I’m too small.” 

Whitefang looked at his paws. 

“Don’t be in such a rush,” Mudfur told her. “You’ll have 
plenty of time to be a warrior.” 

“But you’re the one who told me StarClan saved me fora 
reason,” she argued. “That’s why I have to start training as 
soon as possible.” 

Hailstar got to his paws. “Pm sure whatever StarClan has 
in store for you can wait,” he mewed. “You will start training 


once I think you’re ready.” 

She dug her claws into the ground. “I’mready now!” 

Mudfur shooed her toward the entrance with his tail. 
“Don’t argue, Leopardkit.” 

“Pm not arguing. I’m trying to explain.” She gazed 
desperately into Hailstar’s eyes. Didn’t he realize how much 
this meant to her? “I have to serve RiverClan . . . to honor 
my mother, her sacrifice. Please ... don’t make me wait.” 

He blinked at her, and she saw warmth in his gaze. Have 1 
persuaded him? 

Hailstar turned to Mudfur. “What do you think?” 

Leopardkit felt a stab of dread in her chest. Was her 
father was going to tell the leader that he still had his 
doubts? She saw Mudfur glance at her, holding her eye fora 
long time. 

Please agree, she thought desperately. Please tell him 
you think I'm ready! 

Mudfur turned back to the leader, dipping his head. “I 
will agree with your decision,” he mewed, “whatever that is.” 

Hailstar looked back toward Leopardkit. “Very well,” he 
said. “I suppose we can make an exception.” 

“Thank you!” Leopardkit willed herself not to purr too 
loudly as she bowed her head, then turned and ducked 
through the trailing moss, screwing up her eyes as sunshine 
dazzled her. 

Hailstar will be glad he agreed, she thought, once 1 


become an important RiverClan warrior. Her belly burned 
with excitement as she remembered that she was a cat with a 
destiny. Her father had said so. 

And she was going to prove him right. 


Skypaw and Sunpaw followed their mentors into the 
river. Leopardpaw, watching from the shore, shuddered as 
she saw the water flowing around their legs and rushing 
beneath their bellies. 

Voleclaw was already midstream, turning to face Sunpaw. 
“Not so fast,” he warned. “The current is strong here.” 

“Tve swum in the river lots of times,” Sunpaw mewed. 

“Swimming and hunting are not the same thing,” 
Voleclaw said. “Take it slowly.” 

Sunpaw did as she was told. Beside her, Softwing was 
treading water, her strong paws holding her steady in the 
fast-flowing river. “Hold your head up and keep facing 
upstream,” she called to Skypaw. 

Whitefang nudged Leopardpaw into the shallows. “Stay 
close to the others,” he advised. 

She resisted, her heart pounding. She hadn’t gotten 
more than her belly fur wet in the two moons that had 
passed since the incident with Skypaw. The thought of 
water covering her muzzle still made her shudder. “But what 
if I get swept away?” 

For the first time since she’d been given her apprentice 
name, she felt suddenly aware that she was smaller than her 


denmates. She’d managed to keep up with them easily when 
their mentors had taken them on their first tour of 
RiverClan’s territory, and when they’d learned their first 
battle move, her quickness had made up for her size. But 
today, faced with her first fishing lesson, she felt sick with 
fear. 

Whitefang blinked at her kindly. “Pll be with you,” he 
mewed. “I won’t let you get swept away.” 

But what if water goes up my nose? She remembered 
how it had made her splutter and cough, but how could she 
admit it? She was a RiverClan cat. She wasn’t supposed to 
be afraid of water. 

Sunpaw waded in deeper and pushed off into the stream, 
the water flowing over her shoulders. 

Skypaw followed, clearly as comfortable as a water vole 
in the rushing river. She ducked suddenly beneath the 
surface, then bobbed up again and shook water from her 
ears. “Hurry up!” she called to Leopardpaw as she swam 
easily around Softwing. 

Leopardpaw felt a twinge of irritation. / wouldnt be 
scared if you hadnt pushed me under Did Skypaw even 
remember what she’d done? 

“Come on, Leopardpaw.” Sunpaw had swum into an 
eddy in the middle of the river and was letting it swirl her 
around. “It's fun!” 

Leopardpaw stared at her, wishing she weren’t so 


scared. She tried to force her paws forward, but they felt like 
they were made of stone. 

Whitefang glanced at her for a moment, then swished his 
tail. “Let’s head upstream,” he mewed. “There’s a pool there. 
It’s shallow enough to wade in, and sometimes fish get 
caught there. We can check it for prey.” He called out to 
Softwing. “We’re going to see if there’s anything in the 
minnow trap,” he told her. 

“We’ll catch up later,’ Softwing mewed back, nudging 
Skypaw into a patch of smooth water. 

Leopardpaw followed Whitefang, avoiding the gazes of 
the others. Her pelt prickled self-consciously as they headed 
upstream. If she didn’t get over her fear of the river, her 
denmates would start calling her a drypaw. Worse than that, 
how would she ever fulfil her destiny? She couldn’t save 
RiverClan ifshe was too scared to swim! 


“Pmnot a drypaw.” Leopardpaw glared at Blackpaw. 

“Skypaw said you won’t even get your belly fur wet,” he 
mewed back. 

“That’s not true,” Leopardpaw snapped. The minnow 
pool had been so deep, the water had nearly reached her 
shoulders, and she’d ducked down to let it wash over her 
back so that her pelt was completely soaked when she 
returned to camp. 

Outside the apprentices’ den, Skypaw was dozing after 
her morning in the river. Leopardpaw could see the brown 


tabby’s ears twitching. Was she listening to her brother 
tease Leopardpaw? I’m sure you did tell him I wouldnt 
swim. 

Frogpaw was lying in the soft grass beside the den. He 
took another bite of trout and chewed it slowly, his gaze on 
Leopardpaw. “She's still kind of small” he told Blackpaw. 
“Perhaps she’s scared she’ll get eaten by a pike.” 

Blackpaw's eyes glittered mischievously. “I heard pikes 
can swallow kits whole.” 

“Pmnot a kit!” Leopardpaw mewed hotly. 

“You "re only five moons old,” Frogpaw pointed out. 

“Nearly six!” Leopardpaw corrected him. “And Pve got 
my apprentice name.” 

Blackpaw’s whiskers twitched. “That doesn’t mean a 
pike won’t swallow you.” 

Leopardpaw tumed her tail on him. 

Sunpaw padded out of the dirtplace tunnel and crossed 
the clearing. She stopped beside Leopardpaw, clearly 
noticing her ruffled pelt. “What’s wrong?” she mewed. 

Leopardpaw fluffed out her fur—she wasn’t going to 
tattle—but Frogpaw answered for her. “Blackpaw’s teasing 
her about being a drypaw.” He took another mouthful of 
trout. 

Sunpaw jerked her nose toward Skypaw. “I told you not 
to say anything.” 

Skypaw opened her eyes and blinked at her denmate 


innocently. “He asked how training went, that’s all.” She sat 
up and stretched. “And I just mentioned how Leopardpaw 
preferred fishing in the minnow pool rather than the river.” 

“That was Whitefang’s idea,” Sunpaw reminded her 
sharply. 

“Only because he saw the look on Leopardpaw’s face,” 
Skypaw mewed casually. “When he nosed her toward the 
river, she looked as if he’d asked her to jump off 
Sunningrocks.” 

I did not. Leopardpaw choked back the words. She 
wasn’t going to get into an argument. It would make her 
seem even more like a kit. But she was going to stop being 
scared of the water. She was going to show her denmates 
that StarClan had a plan for her. Crossly, she sat down 
beside Frogpaw and took a bite of the trout. 


“Wouldn’t it be better to practice battle moves instead?” 
She gazed eagerly at Whitefang as they stood on the 
riverbank. “The others were fishing here earlier. They’ve 
probably frightened all the best fish away.” 

Whitefang frowned thoughtfully. “I guess we’d have a 
better chance of catching something if we waited until 
tomorrow,” he agreed. 

Leopardpaw felt a rush of relief. Battle moves were 
important. She could get over her fear of the water tomorrow. 
It would be easier then, with more fish to distract her. 

Tomorrow came and went. Then another and another. 


There was so much to learn—about RiverClan’s territory and 
battle skills and tactics and which fish swam in which part of 
the river. Leopardpaw became skilled at fishing in shallow 
pools where fish found themselves trapped. Whitefang 
didn’t seem to argue when she found other ways to hunt 
that kept her pelt dry. Perhaps he was pleased she was so 
resourceful. He seemed impressed that she was always the 
first to find patches of shade near the bank where fish 
sheltered from the sun. She could spot a brown trout even in 
murky water, and she was so fast, she could hook it out 
before it saw her shadow and tried to swim away. 

As her warrior assessment grew steadily closer, she felt 
surer and surer that tomorrow she’d face her fear of the river 
and simply dive in. But every day, she found another excuse 
to put it off. 

“Do it again!” Timberfur circled Leopardpaw and 
Frogpaw as they faced each other in a clearing beside the 
camp. Leopardpaw dropped into a battle crouch, her muscles 
aching. How many times would they have to practice this 
move? 

“Keep your belly low,” Timberfur told her. The dark 
brown tom touched his tail-tip to Frogpaw’s shoulder. He 
thrust a paw suddenly into Frogpaw’s haunch, and the gray 
tom wobbled and fought to stay on his paws. “You need to 
be properly balanced.” 

Whitefang stood back and watched, and Leopardpaw 


felt her mentor’s gaze run along her flank. She tried not to 
tremble from the effort of keeping still while Frogpaw eased 
himself back into the battle stance. 

“Ready?” Timberfur looked from Leopardpaw to 
Frogpaw. 

They nodded at the same time. 

“Attack.” 

Frogpaw leaped at Leopardpaw, but she was a moment 
faster and was already rearing as he reached her. She hooked 
her paws into his scruff, unbalanced him with a sharp jerk, 
and sent himstaggering away. 

“Good.” Timberfur nodded at her, then nudged Frogpaw 
back to the center of the clearing and whisked his tail. 
“Again!” 

Leopardpaw blinked at him, her heart sinking. “Again?” 

“You'll keep doing it until you’ve both got it perfect,” 
Timberfur told her. 

Leopardpaw nodded, and tried not to sigh as she retook 
her original position, wondering once more how many times 
she would have to repeat these battle moves. 

It wasn’t always fun, being a cat with a destiny. 


“I really thought Pd do it this time.” Leopardpaw felt 
anxious as she whispered to Sunpaw. They were curled in 
their nests at the end of a hard day’s training. Moonlight 
was filtering though the woven willow roof of the den, and 
the other apprentices were already asleep. The sound of 


their gentle breathing filled the air, while frogs croaked in the 
distance and a curlew called out across the water meadow. 
Leopardpaw rested her chin on the side of her nest, feeling 
weary with disappointment. “But I just froze.” 

“Again?” Sunpaw blinked at her sympathetically, her 
amber eyes reflecting the silvery light. 

“Whitefang pointed out a chub in the middle of the river 
and I tried to go in. The water was past my belly, but I just 
couldn’t dive under.” Leopardpaw’s belly tightened. She 
was beginning to think she’d never have the courage to 
swim like other RiverClan warriors. How was she going to 
save their Clan? 

“Was Whitefang angry?” Sunpaw asked. 

“No.” Leopardpaw was beginning to wonder if her 
mentor had simply given up hope that she’d ever swim. “He 
just pointed out a tiny trout near the edge where I could 
reach it. He sounded really disappointed.” 

“Would it be easier if he wasn’t watching?” Sunpaw 
asked. 

“I don’t know.” Whitefang was so kind and patient; she 
couldn’t believe he was the problem. It was her own lack of 
courage that was to blame. 


Leopardpaw watched Skypaw and Blackpaw drag a 
tattered old nest from the elders’ den. She was relieved she 
hadn’t been given cleaning duty. She’d woken early that 
morning and was already hunting for frogs in the reed bed 


with Loudpaw and Sedgepaw by the time Shellheart began 
handing out the day’s assignments. 

Frogpaw padded to her side. “Should we help them?” he 
asked. 

“After we’ve eaten,” Leopardpaw mewed. It wasn’t her 
fault they’d woken late. Besides, her belly was rumbling with 
hunger. She padded toward the fresh-kill pile, but Reedpaw 
was already carrying a large bream toward the apprentices’ 
den. He dropped it outside and beckoned her with his tail. 
“Let’s share this,” he called. 

Leopardpaw hurried toward him, Frogpaw at her tail. The 
bream smelled fresh and tasty. Her mouth watering, 
Leopardpaw leaned down to take a bite. 

“Leopardpaw!” Sunpaw’s mew made her jerk around. Her 
friend was hurrying toward her. “Come with me.” She nosed 
Leopardpaw away fromthe bream. 

“But I’m hungry,” Leopardpaw complained, glancing at 
the fish. 

“Tf you come with me, you can have the best meal ever.” 

Leopardpaw widened her eyes. “What do you mean?” 

“Follow me,” Sunpaw told her. 

Curious, Leopardpaw followed her friend out of the camp 
and along the shore to where the river widened and slowed 
before it tumbled into the gorge. 

Sunpaw stopped and looked across the green water. 
Leopardpaw followed her gaze. The scent of carp touched 


her nose, and she saw a fat, shiny fish lying on the far bank. 

“Carp’s your favorite, right?” Sunpaw asked. 

Leopardpaw wiped her tongue around her jaws. “Yes.” 

“Good.” Sunpaw looked at her. “That’s my catch over 
there, but if you swim to it, PI share it with you.” 

Leopardpaw stiffened. She guessed what her friend was 
trying to do; Sunpaw had clearly gone to a lot of effort to set 
this up and was willing to share her carp. But it would be far 
easier to go back to camp and eat bream with Frogpaw and 
Reedpaw. She blinked at the pale gray she-cat. “Can’t I try 
later?” she mewed hopefully. 

“The carp won’t taste as good later,’ Sunpaw told her. 

And you'll be disappointed in me. Leopardpaw looked 
back at the fish. A heron was standing on a stone a few tree- 
lengths upstream. If it caught sight of the carp lying 
unguarded, it would swoop in and steal it. 

Sunpaw glanced at the heron and then at Leopardpaw. 
“Tf you don’t hurry up, we’ll both lose out,” she mewed. Her 
voice sounded like Whitefang’s had, the day she hadn’t 
been brave enough to swim to the middle of the river to 
catch a chub. 

Leopardpaw felt no braver now than she had then. She 
was sure that if she dived into the river, she’d sink before 
she reached the other side. Water would fill her nose and 
mouth, and she might never breathe again. Her heart 
thumped like a trapped badger in her chest. 


Sunpaw nudged her toward the river’s edge. “Just do it.” 

Just do it. Sunpaw was watching her with large, hopeful 
eyes. The heron was shifting on its stone, its gaze flitting 
over the bank. “Okay.” Leopardpaw took a steadying breath. 
IfI die, then I die. Drowning might be better than spending 
the rest of her life as the warrior who never dared to swim. 
Ignoring the fear churning in her belly, she waded into the 
water. Panic began to pulse in her paws. She felt sick. But 
she kept going, feeling the water touch her belly fur, then 
rise around her flanks until it was lapping over her spine. 
Closing her eyes, she pushed away from the shore and 
plunged into the deep water. The chill of it set her blood 
roaring in her ears. She chumed the water. Where was the 
bottom? Terror sparked in every hair of her pelt as she 
realized it was out of reach. She flailed her paws, feeling as 
clumsy as a ThunderClan warrior. 

“You can do it!” She heard Sunpaw’s mew and glimpsed 
her friend swimming a tail-length away. “I won’t let you 
drown!” 

Leopardpaw fought to stay above the surface. Water 
splashed up her nose and stung her eyes. Remember what 
Mudfur taught you. She remembered the swimming lessons 
her father had given her when she was a kit. Let the water 
hold you up. His mew rang in her mind. /t will if you trust it. 
She’d swum then, before she knew enough to be frightened. 
You re a RiverClan cat, Mudfur had told her. Swimming is 


in your blood. She pictured her father swimming ahead of 
her, as easily as a fish, and always looking over his shoulder 
to make sure she was okay, his tail just a whisker ahead so 
she could grab it if she needed. Slowly, her panic ebbed, and 
she felt her paws begin to work together, one reaching out 
after another and pulling her through the water. 

“You’re doing it!” Sunpaw called out beside her. 

Tam doing it! Triumph swelled in Leopardpaw’s chest as 
her paws fell into a rhythm. Mudfur was right: The water was 
holding her up. It flowed around her, supporting her and 
letting her pull herself through it until she felt like part of the 
current. A moment later, she felt the river bottom beneath her 
paws and was padding onto the far shore, water streaming 
from her fur. She glared at the heron’s eye and arched her 
back menacingly. Feathers ruffling, it lifted into the air and 
wheeled away over the reed bed. 

Sunpaw climbed out after her. She purred with delight. 
“You did it!” 

“I did, didn’t I?” Leopardpaw circled around her, her tail 
high. She wondered suddenly why it had taken her so long 
to face her fear. It might be a while before she felt entirely 
comfortable in the water, but she knew now she could do it if 
she wanted. Next time, I wont let fear stop me. 

Sunpaw padded to the carp and carried it back to 
Leopardpaw, dropping it at her paws. “You can eat it all if 
you like,” she mewed. “You’ve earned it.” 


Leopardpaw blinked at her happily. “It'll taste better if 
we share it,” she mewed. 


“I knew you’d do it eventually,’ Whitefang had told her 
when they got back to camp. “You just needed to find the 
right time.” 

Since then, her mentor had made her swim every day. 
“You’ve got a lot of training to catch up on,” he’d told her 
as he taught her to dive into the deepest parts of the river 
and how to navigate the currents and where to watch out for 
eddies and hidden rocks. Soon she could tell by the bubbles 
breaking the surface where a fish was lurking and dive for it, 
darting so smoothly through the water, it had no chance to 
escape. 

Today, though, had been spent on battle techniques. 
The countless mornings practicing with Frogpaw and 
Timberfur had given her patience and skill she hadn’t 
realized until this afternoon, when she had finally beaten 
Blackpaw in a fight. The tom was bigger and stronger than 
her, but she’d noticed his weakness—a tendency to put his 
weight too much on his hind paws—and had first 
unbalanced him, then, fast as a snake, changed her attack so 
that he didn’t have time to avoid the lunge that knocked him 
to the ground and let her pin him there. 

Now she lay back as the sun, soft and orange as duck 
feathers against the pale evening sky, sank behind the moor. 
The long spine of the carp she’d shared with her denmates 


curved in front of her. Sunpaw was washing beside her while 
Skypaw was licking the last scraps of flesh from between the 
bones. 

“When I’m a warrior,” Skypaw mewed between nibbles, 
“I'm going to volunteer for every patrol.” She scooped out a 
fish flake with her tongue. “And Pll ask Hailstar if I can lead 
one.” 

“I don’t want to lead patrols,’ Sunpaw mewed. “I’m 
happy just being part of one.” 

Leopardpaw looked toward the camp entrance, hoping 
Mudfur would return soon. She’d saved hima small rainbow 
trout that she’d caught while she’d been training. Trout was 
his favorite, and she couldn’t wait to show him how she’d 
fished it out of the water without breaking the skin except for 
the neat bitemark where she’d killed it. “I wonder when the 
border patrol will be back,” she mewed. 

“Soon,” Sunpaw guessed. “They were only going to 
check the Sunningrocks border.” 

“If they see any ThunderClan warriors, I hope they 
shred them” Leopardpaw ruffled her pelt crossly. 
ThunderClan had stolen Sunningrocks a few moons ago, 
and she hadn’t forgiven them. “Those squirrel-chasers are 
so greedy. Isn’t the forest enough for them?” 

“I guess they think Sunningrocks is part of the forest,” 
Sunpaw mewed. 

“Why?” Leopardpaw flicked her tail. “Sunningrocks has 


always belonged to RiverClan. They have no right to it and 
they know it.” 

“Reedpaw said that if he was leader, he’d take 
Sunningrocks back,” Skypaw mewed. 

Leopardpaw sniffed. She wondered why Skypaw seemed 
to care so much about what Reedpaw said. “Why are you 
always so impressed by Reedpaw’s bragging?” She 
narrowed her eyes. “Do you like him?” 

Skypaw sat up. “So what if I do?” she mewed. “He’s 
going to be a great warrior. And he’s so handsome.” 

Sunpaw glanced shyly at her paws. “Beetlenose is 
handsomer.” 

Skypaw’s eyes widened. “Do you like Beetlenose?” 

“Maybe.” Sunpaw glanced at Leopardpaw. “Who do 
you like?” 

“Me?” Leopardpaw hadn’t thought about it. She didn’t 
care about toms. She was too busy with her training. “No 
cat.” 

“Really?” Skypaw blinked at her. “What about Frogpaw? 
You two seem close.” 

“We just train together,” she mewed. “That’s all.” 

“Are you sure?” Skypaw pushed the fish carcass away. 
Her eyes sparkled teasingly. “He’s quite cute.” 

“I thought you liked Reedpaw,” Leopardpaw mewed 
back. 

Before Skypaw could answer, the camp entrance rustled 


and Hailstar padded through it. Wleclaw followed, with 
Crookedjaw at his heels. 

Mudfur was leaning heavily against the RiverClan 
deputy. Leopardpaw sat up, her belly tightening with alarm. 
Her father was limping. Clumps of fur stuck out from his pelt, 
she could see gashes along his flank, and his muzzle was 
scratched and bleeding. 

“Mudfur!” She raced across the clearing. 

Hailstar waved her away. “He’s okay,” he told her. “But 
his wounds need dressing. Go back and wait with your 
denmates while Brambleberry sees to him.” 

“But—” 

“Go.” Hailstar’s eyes were dark. “This is warrior 
business.” 

Leopardpaw backed away but couldn’t bring herself to 
leave. She stared anxiously at Mudfur. 

“Tmokay,” her father promised. “Do as Hailstar says.” 

Leopardpaw held her ground. “What happened?” 

“Mudfur fought for Sunningrocks.” Crookedjaw guided 
Mudfur toward the shade of the willow. 

Leopardpaw began to follow. “On his own?” 

“Against Adderfang, to decide who they belonged to,” 
Crookedjaw told her. 

Troutclaw circled the patrol as it crossed the clearing. 
“Who won?” 

“Mudfur,” Wleclaw told him. “Sunningrocks belongs to 


RiverClan again.” 

As Brambleberry hurried from the medicine den, a wad of 
herbs in her jaws, warriors began to cluster around the 
retuming patrol. Leopardpaw shifted one way, then the 
other, trying to keep her father in sight. 

“Go back and wait with your denmates,” Hailstar told her 
again, more sternly this time. “We have important matters to 
discuss.” 

Reluctantly, Leopardpaw backed away. 

Skypaw padded to her side. “Why did Mudfur have to 
fight alone?” 

“I don’t know.” Leopardpaw didn’t care. She just wanted 
to know how bad her father’s injuries were. Her belly 
chumed as she tried to get a glimpse of him, but more and 
more warriors were getting in the way, clustering eagerly 
around Hailstar and the others while Brambleberry tended to 
Mudfur. Ottersplash and Piketooth paced around them, their 
tails twitching excitedly as Hailstar conferred with Timberfur 
and Rippleclaw. 

Leopardpaw swallowed back frustration. What was 
happening? 

She felt Skypaw’s nose brush her ear. “I’m sure he’ll be 
okay,” the pale brown tabby mewed. “You’ll be able to talk 
to him soon.” 

She stiffened as Ottersplash hurried toward them. “Did 
you hear?” Ottersplash’s ears twitched. “Mudfur’s going to 


become a medicine cat!” 

Leopardpaw blinked. “What are you talking about?” 

“He’s just told Hailstar he wants to give up being a 
warrior and train as a medicine cat,” Ottersplash mewed. 

Leopardpaw could hardly believe her ears. Mudfur was 
one of the strongest warriors in RiverClan. He’d just won 
back Sunningrocks, single-pawed! “Why?” 

Ottersplash retuned her gaze blankly. “You’ll have to ask 
him yourself.” 

“Tmsure he has his reasons,” Skypaw told her. 

“But he’s never mentioned wanting to be a medicine 
cat.” He’d have told me if this was something he’d been 
thinking about, right? she thought. Of course he would 
have. So maybe, hes only saying this now because hes not 
thinking all that clearly, after his fight. 

Time dragged as she waited for a chance to speak to 
Mudfur. She paced, her heart pounding, as the sun began to 
sink toward the distant moor, until, at last, the crowd of 
warriors began to disperse. Hailstar led Ottersplash and 
Piketooth to the edge of the camp. Willowbreeze padded to 
the fresh-kill pile and took a trout to the elders’ den. Wleclaw 
called to his Clanmates, organizing a patrol. 

Softwing began to tidy a pile of frog bones away from 
the warriors’ den. “Come and help me,” she called to 


Skypaw. 
Skypaw hesitated. “Will you be okay?” she asked 


Leopardpaw. 

“Yeah.” Leopardpaw didn’t look at her. “Thanks.” She 
was staring at Mudfur. As Skypaw headed away, she hurried 
to her father’s side. 

“Mudfur?” She inspected his pelt, relieved to see that 
the bleeding had stopped. 

Mudfur had propped himself up on his forepaws as 
Brambleberry laid more cobwebs over a wound on his leg. 
His eyes brightened as he saw Leopardpaw. “Don’t worry. 
I’m fine.” 

Leopardpaw crouched beside him. “Are you sure?” 

“Of course.” He gave a weak purr. 

Brambleberry looked up from her work. “He’ll need to 
take it easy fora while.” 

“That shouldn’t be hard”—Mudfur gave a husky snort 
—“now that I won’t be a warrior.” 

Leopardpaw felt a sharp tug in her heart, like snagged 
claws. He’ serious... ? “But why?” She stared at her father. 
“Was the fight that bad?” 

Mudfur nudged her shoulder with his muzzle. “Pd do it 
again if had to,” he mewed. “I just don’t want to.” 

Leopardpaw didn’t understand. She couldn’t imagine 
not wanting to be a warrior. “But why not?” 

“Pm tired of fighting the same battle over and over 
again,” he told her. “Nothing ever seems to get settled.” 

Brambleberry was chewing herbs. She spat the pulp onto 


her paw and began to work it into a bitemark on Mudfur’s 
tail. “There are more ways to help your Clan than fighting.” 

“But Mudfur trained as a warrior,” Leopardpaw argued. 
“RiverClan needs him.” 

Brambleberry didn’t look up from her work. 

Mudfur spoke instead. “RiverClan needs medicine cats 
too,” he mewed. 

Leopardpaw looked at him, suddenly noticing the gray 
hairs flecking his pelt. Was he just feeling old? She felt 
suddenly protective. “I’m sure you'll be a great medicine 
cat.” But she still didn’t understand how he could give up 
being a warrior. “Maybe one day RiverClan won’t have to 
fight battles,” she mewed.” 

Mudfur looked unconvinced. “Life isn’t that simple,” he 
mewed. “But you’re too young to understand.” 

“No, Pm not.” Had he forgotten that he’d told her she 
was special, that one day she’d save RiverClan? “What if I 
make RiverClan so strong we never have to fight again?” 

He purred indulgently. “That would be great.” 

She could tell he didn’t believe her, but she would show 
him. She’d make him see that RiverClan didn’t have to fight 
the same battles over and over again. She lapped his ears 
gently. He must be in pain. As she worked at them, cleaning 
the blood from his fur, her thoughts quickened. Perhaps it 
had been Mudfur’s destiny to become a medicine cat all 
along. If it was, did it mean that when he’d said she was 


special—special enough to save all the Clans—his words 
had been a prophecy? 


A half-moon later, Leopardpaw crouched on the 
riverbank. She’d been far too busy training for her warrior 
assessment to worry about Mudfur’s prophecy, or his 
minnow-brained idea of becoming a medicine cat. Whitefang 
had worked her hard, and she’d tried her best to impress 
him. Now assessment day had arrived, and she and her 
denmates were being tested. 

She sniffed the two dead voles that lay at her paws. The 
apprentices had been told to bring back land prey, and now 
she was wondering if the water voles she’d caught counted 
as land prey or river prey. Perhaps she should head into the 
strip of forest that lay on this side of the river and catch a 
mouse. She glanced among the trees. Was Whitefang 
watching from the undergrowth? She knew he’d be keeping 
an eye on her progress. Had she done enough to eam her 
warrior name? 

A branch, jutting out over the river, shivered above her. 
Leaves showered down and she looked up, her ears pricking 
as she saw Skypaw padding unsteadily along the branch. 
Her denmate’s eyes were fixed on a squirrel that she’d 
cornered by the trunk. Excitement sparkled in Skypaw’s 
eyes. The assignment to catch land prey had been hard for 
apprentices used to hooking fish from the river, and a 
squirrel would be an impressive catch. 


Leopardpaw felt a twinge of envy. Why hadn’t she tried 
to catch a squirrel? 

At the end of the branch, the squirrel had frozen. Its 
eyes flashed with panic. Skypaw crouched lower against the 
branch. Her hind paws were trembling, and Leopardpaw 
could see she was about to lunge for the squirrel. She held 
her breath as Skypaw launched herself forward, but the 
squirrel darted suddenly upward and disappeared into the 
leaves above her head. 

Skypaw landed on the empty branch tip. It dipped under 
her weight. She hissed in frustration as she fought to get a 
grip, but the branch snapped, and her hind legs swung 
down. She dangled for a moment before losing her hold, 
slithering from the branch, and splashing into the river 
below. 

Leopardpaw darted to the edge, her heart lurching as 
Skypaw disappeared for a moment, but soon her head burst 
back through the surface. 

The tabby’s gaze burned with rage as she swam to the 
shore and hauled herself out a few tail-lengths downstream. 

“Bad luck,” Leopardpaw called. 

Skypaw scowled at her. “Why did they tell us to catch 
land prey?” she snapped. “It’s not fair. ’ve been practicing 
fishing! They should have warned us.” 

“You can have one of these.” Leopardpaw pushed a vole 
toward Skypaw. Her sympathy for her denmate wrestled with 


the wry thought that she was only good at catching land 
prey because of that day Skypaw had given her a fear of 
water. It had been just a moon or so since Leopardpaw had 
stopped hating her for it. 

The pale brown tabby whisked her tail irritably. “Do you 
want me to be accused of cheating?” With a huff, she 
headed into the forest. “Dll catch my own prey, thanks.” 

Leopardpaw decided not to go after her Skypaw was 
right. She had to do this alone. 

Back at camp, Loudpaw, Sunpaw, and Blackpaw had 
already returned with their catch. As Leopardpaw padded 
into the clearing, Hailstar was looking pleased, and Oakheart 
and Wleclaw were purring, their pelts fluffed with pride. 
Leopardpaw guessed that the three apprentices had passed 
the assessment. 

Whitefang was standing beside the RiverClan leader. 

Leopardpaw dropped her voles at his paws, blinking at 
him anxiously. “Do these count as land prey?” she mewed. 

“You caught themon land,” he told her. “So they count.” 

She felt a wave of relief. “Then I passed?” 

Whitefang touched his muzzle to her head. “Yes.” 

Happiness surged in her chest. As she began to purr, 
Frogpaw and Reedpaw trotted into camp, Sedgepaw at their 
heels. All three of them were carrying prey. 

Hailstar nodded approvingly as they laid their catch in 
front of him. It seemed every cat had passed the assessment. 


The RiverClan leader looked toward the camp entrance. 
“Where’s Skypaw?” 

“I just saw her,” Leopardpaw told him. “She was heading 
into the forest.” 

“Without prey?” Hailstar frowned. 

Leopardpaw avoided the leader’s gaze. She didn’t want 
to tell him that Skypaw had let a squirrel escape. It had been 
a difficult catch and she’d been brave to try. Hailstar’s tail 
twitched impatiently. He glanced at the sky. It was past 
sunhigh. All the apprentices should have returned by now. 
“She'll be back soon,” Leopardpaw promised him. 

Her paws prickled anxiously. Please, StarClan, help her 
catch something. She hurried toward her denmates. “If 
Skypaw doesn’t get back in time,” she whispered, “we 
should ask for our naming ceremonies to be delayed until 
she has a chance to take the assessment again.” 

Blackpaw frowned. “But I want my name now.” 

Frogpaw nudged him. “An extra day or two won’t make a 
difference.” 

Reedpaw sniffed. “What if she doesn’t pass next time, 
either?” 

“She will,” Leopardpaw insisted. 

Sunpaw glanced hopefully toward the camp entrance. 
“We don’t know for sure she’s failed.” 

As she spoke, Skypaw stomped into camp. She was 
carrying nothing, and Leopardpaw’s heart sank. 


Tail drooping, Skypaw crossed the clearing to Hailstar. “I 
nearly caught a squirrel,” she grunted. 

He shook his head sadly. “Nearly is not enough,” he 
mewed. 

Softwing hurried into camp, blinking sympathetically at 
Skypaw. “Her technique was excellent,” she told Hailstar. “I 
watched her; she did well.” 

“Technique doesn’t feed a Clan,” he mewed. “Until she 
brings home prey, I can’t give her a warrior name.” 

Leopardpaw hurried forward. “We don’t want our warrior 
names either, until Skypaw gets hers.” She glanced back at 
her denmates. Blackpaw was looking cross, but he didn’t 
argue. 

Sunpaw padded forward. “Skypaw will pass next time,” 
she mewed. “And we don’t mind waiting until then for our 
ceremonies.” 

Hailstar looked around at the apprentices. His eyes 
glowed with warmth. “It’s good to see such loyalty in our 
youngest warriors,” he mewed. “The naming ceremony can 
wait until Skypaw is ready to join you.” 

Skypaw looked gratefully between Sunpaw and 
Leopardpaw. “I don’t want to hold you back,” she mewed. 

“We can still take care of our Clan even without our 
warrior names,” Leopardpaw told her. “Besides, you’ll pass 
soon. I know you will.” 

Skypaw lifted her chin. “I'll make sure I do.” 


A pale sliver of moon hung low in the sky. The moortop 
was rosy in the setting sun. 

Leopardpaw forced her paws to stop trembling as she 
waited between Mudfur and Whitefang. Her Clanmates had 
gathered and were ringed around the clearing, watching as 
Hailstar conducted the naming ceremonies. Loudbelly, 
Blackclaw, Skyheart, and Reedtail were already sitting 
proudly among the other warriors. Frogleap, Sunfish, and 
Sedgecreek had just made their promises to Hailstar to 
protect their Clan. It would be her turn next. She would 
finally receive her warrior name. 

Mudfur smoothed down the fur between her ears with 
his tongue. “Brightsky will be watching,” he mewed. “She’ll 
be as proud of you as lam.” 

Leopardpaw’s heart seemed to swell. She purred at him. 
“I’m going to make you even prouder,” she promised. 

As she spoke, Whitefang nudged her forward. “It’s your 
tum,” he whispered. 

Hailstar was looking at her expectantly as Frogleap, 
Sunfish and Sedgecreek padded away to join the others. She 
hurried across the clearing, her pelt hot as she felt the eyes 
of the whole Clan on it. 

She stopped in front of the RiverClan leader. She hadn’t 
expected to be so nervous. She swallowed back the 
butterflies swarming in her belly. 

“I call upon my warrior ancestors ... ,” Hailstar began 


slowly. Her heart seemed to burst with excitement. This was 
it. This was the beginning. He went on. “. . . to look down on 
this apprentice. With no mother to guide her, she has been 
raised by the Clan, and it is with special pride that we watch 
her today pass from apprentice to warrior. She has trained 
hard to understand the ways of your noble code, and I 
commend her to you as a warrior of RiverClan.” 

Leopardpaw held her breath, knowing what he would 
say next, willing himto hurry. 

“Leopardpaw,” he mewed at last. “Do you promise to 
uphold the warrior code and to protect and defend your 
Clan, even at the cost of your life?” 

“Ido,” Leopardpaw mewed. “I really do.” 

Hailstar’s whiskers quivered. “Then, by the powers of 
StarClan, I give you your warrior name. Leopardpaw, from 
this moment on you will be known as Leopardfur. StarClan 
honors your determination, your independence, and your 
loyalty, and we welcome you as a full warrior of RiverClan.” 

Leopardfur looked back at Mudfur, pressing back a purr 
as his eyes lit up with pride. Whitefang blinked at her 
happily. Her heart seemed to rise like a bird in her chest. She 
was a warrior. At last, she could begin to follow her destiny. 





CHAPTER 3 
¥ 


Leopardfur shook out her pelt. The rain was freezing and it 
seemed like it had been longer than six moons since she’d 
been a ’paw, relishing the sunshine and warmth of greenleaf. 
She glanced at Sunfish, but her friend hardly seemed to 
notice the downpour, though it was dripping from her 
whiskers. She had that starry-eyed look again. She must be 
thinking about Beetlenose. “Aren’t you cold?” Leopardfur 
mewed. 

“Yes,” Sunfish mewed. “But we’ll be home soon, and 
Beetlenose promised to catch a trout for me. We’re going to 
share it.” 

Leopardfur huddled deeper against the rain. It seemed to 
have started at the beginning of leaf-bare and fallen for a 
moon without stopping. The only time she’d felt warm was 
when she was curled in her nest in the warriors’ den. “I don’t 
suppose he’ll share the trout with me too,” she grunted. 

Sunfish looked at her, surprised. “Of course,” she 
mewed. “If you want some.” 

“No, thanks.” Leopardfur wasn’t going to butt in on her 
friend’s budding romance. “Pl eat with Reedtail and 
Frogleap.” Sunfish had had a crush on Beetlenose since 
they were ’paws, and the handsome black warrior had finally 
seemed to notice that the pretty gray she-cat wasn’t a 


clumsy apprentice anymore. 

Leopardfur glanced along the shore. She hadn’t seen a 
bird or vole all morning. “I think even river prey is smart 
enough to stay in its burrow today,” she mewed. 

Sunfish looked at the river, swollen by the rain. 
“Beetlenose says that any fish worth catching has headed 
upstream to look for warmer water.” 

Leopardfur sniffed. Did Sunfish believe everything that 
tom told her? The fish hadn’t gone to look for warmer water; 
it was just harder to catch them when the river was chuming 
and the currents were fierce. She kept the thought to herself. 
She was only feeling grumpy because she was cold and 
hungry; there was no need to take it out on her friend. If 
Sunfish wanted to end up in the nursery, surrounded by kits, 
that was her choice. Leopardfur was more interested in being 
a warrior. 

She looked at the trees lining the riverbank. The thin 
strip of woodland was RiverClan’s only forest territory, and 
they hardly bothered hunting there. No cat in RiverClan, 
besides Graypool and Willowbreeze, liked forest prey; it 
tasted too musky. But in weather like this, it might be the 
only place they could find food. “Shall we hunt here?” 

Sunfish followed her gaze. “At least we’ll be out of the 
wind,” she mewed. 

Leopardfur headed for the trees, slowing as she reached 
a small clearing. She let her eyes adjust to the gloom. 


Sunfish stopped beside her, her eyes wide as she 
scanned the shadows. “Don’t ThunderClan cats miss fresh 
air?” she mewed. 

“I guess they’re used to breathing in leaf-mold,” 
Leopardfur sniffed. 

Sunfish wrinkled her nose. “How can they detect prey 
when everything smells like wet bark?” 

Movement caught Leopardfur’s eye. “Over there.” She 
nodded toward a birch. Something was rummaging between 
its roots. Dropping low, she padded toward it, her tail 
skimming the ground as her gaze fixed on the twitching 
leaves. 

Sunfish drew level with her as she stopped a paw-length 
from the tree. A tiny tail showed for a moment between the 
leaves, then disappeared. 

“It's a mouse,” Leopardfur breathed excitedly. The pile 
rippled as the mouse burrowed deeper. “I think it’s looking 
for food.” 

“Beetlenose says mice are the hardest prey to catch,” 
Sunfish whispered. “They move faster than fish.” 

Leopardfur suddenly had the overwhelming urge to 
prove Beetlenose wrong. Without waiting to gauge the 
mouse’s movements, she leaped at the leaf pile and slammed 
her paws down on either side. She had it trapped, and when 
it ran for the fork in the roots, she’d catch it. She held her 
breath, waiting for the mouse to burst from the leaves in 


panic, ready to lunge for it and hook it into a killing bite. 

Nothing moved. The leaves between her paws lay still. 
Confused, Leopardfur slapped her paws down again, hoping 
to flush the mouse out. There was still no sign of it. 
Frustration flared in her belly. She began to scrabble through 
at the leaf pile. Where had the mouse gone? Surely there 
was nowhere for it to escape? 

Sunfish padded toward her and peered over her 
shoulder. “Did you catch it?” 

Leopardfur flashed her a look. “Does it look like I did?” 
She dug a space in the leaves, dismayed as she saw a gap 
beneath one of the roots. It was so tiny she wondered how a 
mouse could have squirmed through, but when she sniffed it 
she smelled the fear-scent of her quarry. She followed the 
scent around the tree, but it had disappeared. The mouse 
was gone. 

Her heart sank. Graypool and Softwing were in the 
nursery, and there were kits. RiverClan was depending on 
her. She paced around the birch one more time. 

Sunfish watched her. “I guess Beetlenose was—” 

Leopardfur cut her off. “Don’t you dare tell me 
Beetlenose was right,” she snapped. 

Sunfish blinked at her. “But he was.” 

Leopardfur glared at her friend. Her fury melted at once 
as she saw Sunfish’s wide, innocent eyes. Having a crush 
seemed like a waste of time to Leopardfur, but if it stopped 


Sunfish from feeling cold and hungry, why spoil it? 

Splinters of bark showered around them. Leopardfur 
looked up. A squirrel was darting along a bare branch high 
above. She dropped against the earth, flattening herself 
among the leaves. “Hide,” she ordered Sunfish. 

Sunfish darted toward the trunk and ducked down 
beside a root, her gray pelt melting into the shadow. 
Together they watched the squirrel as it reached the trunk. 
Leopardfur’s heart leaped as it began to scrabble down the 
bark toward them. 

Dont move until its within reach. She willed Sunfish to 
understand, but Sunfish was smart. She would know as well 
as any cat that they only had to stay completely still and 
wait. Squirrels were fast, but they weren’t as cautious as 
ground prey. Which was probably why ThunderClan cats 
grew so fat during greenleaf. 

Her heart pounded harder as the squirrel scurried down 
the trunk, its paws spread as it gripped on with nimble claws. 
Sunfish’s gaze was following the squirrel, but not even a hair 
on her pelt twitched. Leopardfur held her breath as it raced 
closer. Her muscles tingled with the urge to leap for it, but 
she forced herself to stay still until, with a sudden burst of 
speed, the squirrel swarmed down the final tail-length of the 
trunk and darted along a root. 

Leopardfur exploded from the leaves, her ears flattening 
as she streaked after it. Sunfish shot after her, veering one 


way as Leopardfur veered the other. Together, they flanked 
their prey as it pelted for an oak. It mustnt reach it. There 
was no way they’d be able to keep up with it if it reached the 
trunk. She glanced at Sunfish. 

Sunfish caught her eye and seemed to understand. She 
slowed and fell in behind the squirrel as Leopardfur gave a 
final push and lunged in front of it. Blocked ahead and 
behind, the squirrel changed course. Panic flared in its eyes 
as it looked for escape. Faster than an eel, Leopardfur 
switched her weight from one paw to another and swerved 
deftly after their prey. Flinging out her forepaws, she pinned 
it to the ground, and before it could even squeal, she 
delivered the killing bite. 

Sunfish pulled up beside her and sat back on her 
haunches, panting. Her whiskers twitched with distaste as 
the squirrel’s blood filled the damp air with a warm, earthy 
smell. “How do ThunderClan cats eat these all the time?” 
she mewed. 

“I guess a cat can eat anything if they’re hungry.” 
Leopardfur lifted the squirrel’s limp body with a claw. Her 
belly rumbled. It was no fish, but it was food, and Graypool 
and Softwing would be grateful for it. Grabbing its fur 
between her teeth, she picked it up, and they headed back to 


camp. 


The rain kept pounding the camp through the night, and 
when Leopardfur slid from the warriors’ den the next 


morning, the clearing was slick with mud. She flattened her 
ears against the downpour. The sky was laden with heavy 
gray clouds; it looked as though there’d be no break in the 
weather today. 

“Come and help,” Sedgecreek called to her from beside 
the nursery. “The roof’s leaking.” She was stuffing leaves 
between the stems of the woven willow den. 

Petaldust was working beside her. “We might be wasting 
our time fixing the nursery,” she mewed. “The water’s rising 
so much, Graypool and Softwing might have to move to the 
elders’ den.” 

Leopardfur glanced at the water washing through the 
reed bed and lapping the edges of the clearing. Beyond, the 
river swirled, muddy and fast. The currents would still be too 
dangerous for fishing today. 

She hurried to help Petaldust and Sedgecreek, grabbing 
a pawful of wet leaves from the pile and pushing them into a 
gap. The tips of the leaves flapped loosely in the wind. 
“Wouldn’t moss be better?” she asked Petaldust. “We could 
pack it tighter.” 

“Brambleberry wants to save the moss to line nests,” 
Petaldust told her. “She says it’s easier to dry out.” 

Sedgecreek snorted. “I don’t think any cat in RiverClan 
has slept in a dry nest fora moon,” she mewed. 

Hailstar and Crookedjaw—who’d become deputy after 
Shellheart had retired to the elders’ den—were watching the 


water rise through the reed bed, their eyes dark with worry. 

As Leopardfur pressed another pawful of leaves into a 
gap, Softwing appeared at the entrance to the nursery and 
peered out. Mallowkit and Dawnkit tried to nose past her, 
but she drew them close to her belly with her tail as she 
gazed anxiously at the swollen river. 

“Hi, Softwing.” Leopardfur greeted her with a nod. 
“How’s Graypool?” The gray queen was expecting 
Rippleclaw’s kits and had been feeling too sick to eat. 

“She’s stillnauseous,” Softwing answered with a sigh. 

Perhaps if she had more to eat and a drier nest, she’d feel 
better. Leopardfur felt a twinge of guilt as she remembered 
the solitary squirrel she and Sunfish had caught yesterday. 
She glanced at Petaldust. “Has Crookedjaw sent out any 
hunting patrols yet?” 

“He sent out three at dawn, but none are back,” 
Petaldust told her. 

Leopardfur shook out her wet fur, wishing she’d woken 
earlier and joined one. But she’d been on guard duty until 
late, and Crookedjaw had told her to sleep in. 

Mudfur was heading up the slope toward the elders’ den 
with a bundle of leaves in his jaws. He was almost as skilled 
with herbs as Brambleberry after his moons of training. 
Leopardfur was used to him being a medicine cat now. She 
even felt proud that, though he was no longer a warrior, he 
worked tirelessly to protect his Clan. 


Crookedjaw hurried to meet him. “Are those for 
Birdsong?” 

Nodding, Mudfur ducked into the willow den. Only 
Tanglewhisker and Birdsong slept there now that Shellheart 
and Troutclaw had died, and Birdsong had been coughing 
for days. 

As Crookedjaw followed Mudfur inside, Leopardfur 
scooped up more leaves and began to press them around 
the bottom of the den wall, sealing a gap where rainwater 
had been trickling through. She worked her way around the 
den, wondering if she should head out of camp to gather 
more. This pile wouldn’t be enough to plug every gap in the 
nursery. 

Crookedjaw burst out of the elders’ den and hurried 
toward Hailstar. Leopardfur stiffened. Was Birdsong worse? 
She watched as Hailstar raised his tail. He looked pleased. 
Perhaps Birdsong had recovered. As Leopardfur stretched 
her ears, straining to hear what the two warriors were talking 
about so excitedly, Hailstar called across the clearing. 
“Petaldust, Sedgecreek, Leopardfur!” 

Her heart quickened as she heard her own name. She 
dropped the leaves and hurried toward him. 

“We’re going to fetch dry bedding,” Hailstar announced. 
“There’s a barn just past the dog fence.” His eyes were 
shining. “I used to hunt there when I was a ’paw. I haven’t 
been there for many, many moons.” 


Crookedjaw was pacing around the RiverClan leader. 
“We can catch some mice while we’re there.” 

Leopardfur felt a surge of hope. For the first time in days, 
some of her Clanmates might sleep in dry nests with full 
bellies. As Hailstar headed for the camp entrance, she 
hurried after him. 

The patrol followed the path around the camp wall. The 
stepping-stones had disappeared beneath the surface, so 
they crossed the river at its narrowest point. The current 
was fierce here, but there was not far to swim. Leopardfur 
had become such a strong swimmer that it was easy to push 
through the surging water, and she was pleased to note that 
she could hardly remember the time when she’d been 
frightened of getting her paws wet. Climbing out on the far 
bank, she looked back to check that the others were safe. 
Hailstar and Crookedjaw waded out, Petaldust following, but 
where was Sedgecreek? Leopardfur couldn’t see her 
denmate in the frothing river. As she began to splash back 
into the water, Sedgecreek’s head appeared above the 
waves. Water streaming from her ears and whiskers, the 
tabby she-cat swam to the bank and climbed out. 

“Are you okay?” Leopardfur hurried to meet her. 

“Of course.” Sedgecreek shook out her fur. “I swam 
underwater. The current’s not so strong there.” 

I might be a stronger swimmer than I used to be, 
Leopardfur thought, but I still dont know the river as well 


as some of my Clanmates do. 

Hailstar and Crookedjaw were already heading for the 
beech copse, where rain was rattling the brown leaves. 
Leopardfur hurried after them with Petaldust and 
Sedgecreek, and they fell into single file as they reached the 
marsh beyond. Half blinded by the rain, Leopardfur didn’t 
see the dog fence until Hailstar signaled the patrol to halt 
with a flick of his tail. 

“Wait.” He sniffed along the gray fence. “No dog- 
scent,” he told them, sounding relieved, and slid 
undemeath. 

Heart pounding, Leopardfur followed the others. She’d 
never been here before. Was it even Clan territory? The rain 
made it hard to detect border scents. The field inside the dog 
fence was wide and grassy, and there was a sour scent in the 
air she didn’t recognize. She felt exposed as she followed her 
Clanmates across the open meadow, and was relieved when 
they reached a low gray wall. As they sheltered beside it, 
Leopardfur gazed nervously at the huge nest beyond. It rose 
squarely against the pigeon-gray sky, its black wooden 
sides dark and forbidding. 

“What is it?” she whispered. 

Hailstar glanced at her. “It’s a barn,” he told her. 

Petaldust leaned closer. “It’s built by Twolegs,” she 
explained. “But they don’t sleep in it. They just store grass 
there and raise mice.” 


Hailstar and Crookedjaw had leaped onto the low wall. 

“All clear?” Crookedjaw looked anxiously at his leader. 
As Hailstar nodded, he glanced down at the others. “Come 
on.” 

Sedgecreek was the first over, and as Leopardfur 
followed, her heart pounding, she saw a wide stone clearing 
in front of the barn. Hailstar hurried across it, glancing warily 
one way and then the other. Leopardfur followed with her 
Clanmates. She felt suddenly very far from home. The sour 
smell was getting stronger, and her pelt lifted along her 
spine. Had Hailstar really hunted here when he was young? 
She knew the RiverClan leader was brave, but she hadn’t 
realized he was so daring. Since her nursery days, he’d kept 
close to his Clan, guarding them like an anxious mother. 
She’d forgotten that he’d once been a warrior who’d had 
adventures of his own. 

Her unease grew as Hailstar ducked into the bam 
through a small, ragged hole low down in the side. Would it 
be safe in there? It would be drier, at least. 

She followed him through, the rough wood scraping her 
wet pelt, relieved to find the barn airy and dry. The roof was 
so high that she wondered if it was brushing the gray clouds 
outside. She sneezed. The air here was dusty. Motes drifted 
in shafts of light that fell through slits in the walls. The wide 
stone floor was stacked with golden piles of dry grass. 
Leopardfur wondered how much they could carry home. If 


they made bundles, they might be able to make dry nests for 
every elder and queen. 

Crookedjaw had crossed to the nearest grass stack and 
was ripping out a clawful. Sedgecreek joined him and began 
adding to the pile he had made. Leopardfur hurried to the 
stack next to them and began tearing out bundles of hay. 
Dust billowed around her, and she narrowed her eyes 
against the sting as she pulled out more and more. Petaldust 
and Hailstar worked steadily beside her, and soon the pile 
they’d made was almost as tall as Leopardfur. She gathered 
it together and began wrapping the stems around her paws, 
creating bundles they could carry home between their jaws. 

Her belly growled with hunger, and she realized that 
through the hay smell of sunshine and dried leaves, she 
could smell mouse. She paused and licked her lips. Hailstar 
had said they could hunt here. The air was certainly rich 
with the smell of prey. 

Crookedjaw and Sedgecreek were already sniffing 
around the shadows at the back of the barn. Sedgecreek 
darted suddenly forward and a mouse scurried past her 
outstretched paws, straight into Crookedjaw’s. He killed it 
quickly and scanned the barn for more. 

Hailstar was watching them too, his pelt prickling with 
excitement. He hurried to join them, and Leopardfur padded 
closer. The mice here were big. Crookedjaw’s catch lay on 
the stone, plump and large, and there was another, moving in 


the shadows, that looked even bigger. 

She unsheathed her claws. How would they carry so 
many good things home? They might have to make two 
trips, first to take home the bedding, another to carry home 
their catch. The Clan would be pleased to see what they’d 
brought. She imagined Softwing’s eyes shining when she 
realized her kits would sleep in dry nests tonight. 

“Watch out!” 

Crookedjaw’s warning yowl made her jerk her muzzle 
around. Was a Twoleg coming? She sniffed the air, sneezing 
as dust filled her nose. Then a rancid scent hit her. It had the 
warmth and muskiness of mouse-scent, but there was a 
sourness that made her shudder. 

“Rats!” Hailstar’s pelt spiked with alarm. 

Sedgecreek squawked with surprise. “They’re attacking 
us!” 

Leopardfur’s eyes widened. The four creatures darting 
from the shadows were long and muscular, far larger than 
mice, their sharp yellow teeth glinting in the dim light, their 
tails like stiff worms. They were squealing, and their eyes 
glittered with malice. Fear flared beneath her pelt as one of 
the rats fastened its jaws around Sedgecreek’s hind paw. 

Crookedjaw pounced on it, killing it with a single bite, 
but blood was already welling on Sedgecreek’s paw. “Are 
you okay?” he asked, but there was no time to check the 
wound. More rats were streaming from every side of the 


barn. 

Leopardfur’s pelt spiked as fear flooded her. 

Hailstar swiped at one after another, flinging them away, 
but they kept coming. 

“Get help!” Crookedjaw yowled at Petaldust. 

“But—” Petaldust began to argue. 

“Now!” 

Hailstar shook a rat from his forepaw, where it had 
latched on with its jaws. 

Petaldust turned and raced for the gap in the wall. Beside 
Leopardfur, Sedgecreek was fighting on three legs, blood 
pouring from her fourth as she shook one rat off, then 
another, her balance awkward as she leaned her head away 
from the vile creatures while clawing at them. Hailstar lunged 
this way and that, rats on every side. 

Pain seared Leopardfur’s tail. She felt the weight of a rat 
dragging behind her. Spinning, she sank her teeth into its 
neck. It thrashed, paws flailing. As it fell limp, she felt claws 
dig into her back. Another was clinging to her pelt. Its sharp 
teeth sank into her flesh. Panic sparked beneath her pelt. 
The rats were attacking faster than she could fight them off. 
“Help!” 

Crookedjaw darted toward her and hooked the rat off of 
her back. Its teeth ripped out fur, and she yelped as the sour 
stench ofblood and rats flooded around her. 

“Hailstar!” Sedgecreek’s wail sounded above the rats’ 


shrieking. 

Leopardfur jerked around. The RiverClan leader was 
staggering, one rat clinging to his spine, another dragging at 
his hind legs with its teeth. Crookedjaw raced toward him 
and hauled the biggest rat off with his claws. He flung it into 
the shadows and knocked another away as Hailstar fought 
to regain his paws before he was lost beneath the sea of 
rats. 

As a fresh surge poured toward her, Leopardfur batted 
one with a hefty swipe. But another took its place. She 
swung blow after blow as the rats kept coming. She felt 
Sedgecreek slump against her and glanced in alarm at her 
denmate. Sedgecreek’s ears were flat, her eyes wide with 
terror, but she was still fighting. She pressed harder against 
Leopardfur as she struggled to stay on her paws. Leopardfur 
pressed back, doing her best to support her Clanmate as 
they fought off wave after wave of rats. “Can we get to the 
entrance?” she called, not daring to take her eyes from their 
attackers to see if there was a way to escape. 

Crookedjaw answered. “If we stop fighting for a moment, 
we’ll be overwhelmed,” he yowled. 

“But we can’t keep this up!” Leopardfur wailed. 

“We need to work together.” Crookedjaw backed toward 
them, hooking Hailstar’s pelt and jerking the RiverClan 
leader with him. “Warriors! Tail-to-tail!” 

Leopardfur understood. She scuttled backward and 


pressed her spine against Crookedjaw’s. Hailstar and 
Sedgecreek wedged themselves in between. As one, they 
reared up onto their hind paws, forming a circle of flashing 
claws. Hailstar was panting. Leopardfur could feel his flanks 
heaving against hers and his blood soaking her pelt, but still 
he thrashed mercilessly at the surging rats. 

Her panic rose into rage. How dare prey attack warriors! 
Drawing her lips back, she hissed at them and flung out 
swipe after swipe, yowling in triumph each time she sent one 
flying backward into the swarm. 

Sedgecreek was trembling, her hind legs unsteady 
beneath her. Leopardfur propped her up as best she could, 
and Sedgecreek fought fiercely, slamming her forepaws 
down repeatedly on the writhing, squealing bodies. Over 
and over again, they swiped and clawed at their foul 
enemies, until exhaustion began to drag at Leopardfur’s 
bones. Crookedjaw was fighting relentlessly, but even he 
was beginning to slow. How could they win against so 
many? 

“Try to get to the entrance!” Crookedjaw began to steer 
the patrol through the mass of rats. Leopardfur winced as 
one nipped at her hind paw. She kicked it away. Desperation 
welled in her chest. They had to reach the gap. But 
Sedgecreek was stumbling. Hailstar seemed barely able to 
stay upright. She and Crookedjaw appeared to be carrying 
their weight as they flailed blindly now against the 


onslaught. 

Leopardfur glanced at the hole. It was only a few tail- 
lengths away, but it seemed unreachable. As she longed for 
the daylight that showed beyond, a face peeked through the 
gap. 

Petaldust! 

She was back! 

“Tve brought help.” The tortoiseshell charged into the 
barn, Rippleclaw and Timberfur streaming after her. Sunfish, 
Blackclaw, and Owlfur were at their heels. The warriors 
plunged into the swarm and began hooking rats with their 
claws and flinging them away. Owlfur lunged at one rat after 
another, clamping his jaws around their spines and cracking 
them as easily as killing fish trapped in a pool. Sunfish tore 
at the rats’ oily pelts, and the air grew thick with their fear- 
scent. The rats scattered, like mist vanishing beneath the 
sun, and ran, shrieking, for the edge of the bam, flowing 
back into the shadows. 

Heavy with relief and completely exhausted, Leopardfur 
dropped to her belly. Her heart ached with gratitude toward 
her Clanmates as Timberfur, Owlfur, and Rippleclaw chased 
the last of the rats back to their dens. “We did it!” She 
blinked happily at Crookedjaw. 

Crookedjaw turned and lapped blood from her ears. “Yes, 
we did.” 

Sedgecreek groaned and collapsed onto her side. As she 


lay bleeding on the stone, Leopardfur stared at her, appalled 
by the ragged bitemarks that showed on every paw. 

White fur flashed at the comer of her vision. Leopardfur 
recognized Brambleberry’s pelt. She moved aside to let the 
medicine cat examine Sedgecreek, and Sunfish hurried to 
watch. 

“Fetch cobwebs,” Brambleberry ordered. 

Rippleclaw and Timberfur streaked away and stretched 
up on the huge piles of grass to snatch cobwebs from the 
walls. 

“Hailstar!” 

At Owlfur’s panicked mew, Leopardfur jerked around. 
The RiverClan leader was lying on the stone, blood welling 
at his throat. 

She felt sick. “Help him,” she begged Brambleberry. The 
medicine cat glanced from Sedgecreek to Hailstar, her eyes 
narrowing as if she was trying to figure out how she could 
tend to both her wounded Clanmates at once. She seemed 
instinctively drawn to her leader, until Sedgecreek gasped, 
and blood gushed from her wound where Brambleberry had 
moved the paw that had staunched the bleeding. She 
resumed her position. 

“It's his last life,” Crookedjaw gasped. Leopardfur felt 
her heart sink into her belly. She knew that Hailstar was an 
old cat, but she had never thought to ask how many lives he 
might have left. “You must—” 


“I can’t!” Brambleberry’s blue eyes shone with grief. “I 
can’t leave—” 

“Its all right,” Hailstar croaked. “Sedgecreek needs 
you.” 

Crookedjaw crouched beside Hailstar, his gaze glittering 
with horror. “I’m sorry. ... I let you down.” 

Leopardfur blinked at him. How could that be true? He’d 
fought beside the RiverClan leader as fiercely as any warrior 
could. 

Hailstar struggled to focus. “Lead the patrol home 
safely.” His mew was so weak that she barely heard the 
words. 

Crookedjaw pressed his paw to Hailstar’s throat and 
flung a desperate look at Brambleberry. But the medicine cat 
was still fighting to staunch Sedgecreek’s bleeding. 

“No!” Crookedjaw let out an anguished wail. It seemed 
to send thorns into Leopardfur’s heart. She saw the 
RiverClan leader’s head loll to one side and his eyes glaze as 
though frost had taken him. She felt sick. 

Sunfish nudged Brambleberry away from Sedgecreek, 
snatching the cobwebs from her. “PI finish this.” She began 
wrapping her denmate’s paws as Brambleberry darted to 
Hailstar’s side. 

Crookedjaw had slumped beside him, his muzzle buried 
in the leader’s pelt, and the medicine cat’s eyes darkened as 
she inspected the wound on Hailstar’s neck. 





“There was nothing to be done,” Brambleberry told 
Crookedjaw softly. “The wound was too deep to heal. This 
life could not have been saved... .” 

Crookedjaw lifted his head and looked around, as 
though he barely knew where he was. “Is Leopardfur okay?” 
he mewed huskily. 

“Pm fine.” Leopardfur limped to his side. She touched 
her nose to Hailstar’s pelt. The stillness beneath it made her 
shiver. 

Crookedjaw straightened and looked at Sedgecreek. 
Sunfish sat back as the injured tabby struggled to her paws. 
“Will you be able to make it home?” he asked her. 

Her eyes were dull with exhaustion, but she nodded. 

“Help her,” he told Timberfur. 

The brown tom tucked his shoulder beneath 
Sedgecreek’s and began to guide her toward the hole in the 
wall. Sunfish pressed in on the other side. 

Leopardfur felt numb with shock as Crookedjaw 
crouched and let Rippleclaw and Owlfur haul the body of 
their dead leader onto their deputy’s back. The pain of her 
wounds seemed far away. This must be a dream. They’d 
only come here for dry bedding, and now Hailstar was dead. 
It didn’t make sense. Something felt wrong. She was 
supposed to save her Clan. That was why StarClan had let 
her live when her littermates and mother had died. How 
could she ever fulfill her destiny if she couldn’t even save 


her leader? 


“Here.” Mudfur pushed a pawful of poppy seeds toward 
Leopardfur’s muzzle. “These will help the pain.” 

“It's only a few nicks and scrapes,” she croaked, and yet 
she could hardly lift her head and lay stiff with pain in the 
medicine-den nest where Mudfur had settled her Her 
injuries stung as though the rats’ teeth had been coated with 
nettle juice. And yet she had been lucky. ... 

When Hailstar was not, she thought, miserably. 

Sedgecreek was unconscious in the nest beside hers, the 
smell of blood still fresh on her pelt. Crookedjaw’s fur was 
ragged and bloody, but the poultices Brambleberry had 
mixed had eased his wounds enough for him to set out with 
the old medicine cat on the long journey to the Moonstone 
to receive his nine lives. 

He had laid Hailstar in the clearing, and the Clan had 
gathered around him. It was as though they’d become 
suddenly numb to the driving rain that washed their dead 
leader’s fur clean and battered their huddled bodies. 
Darkness was falling and the Clan was silent. 

In the medicine den, Leopardfur could only hear 
Sedgecreek’s labored breathing and the swirling of the river 
outside. She tried to struggle to her paws. “I should join the 
vigil.” 

Mudfur nudged her back into the damp moss. “You need 
to rest,” he mewed. 


She didn’t fight him. She was too weary and miserable. “I 
should have saved him.” 

“You fought bravely, from what I hear.” He nudged the 
poppy seeds closer. “No warrior can do more than that.” 

“But you said StarClan let me live for a reason.” She 
looked at him hopelessly. 

“That reason clearly wasn’t to save Hailstar,” Mudfur 
told her. 

“He was our leader,” she mewed. 

“He was old, and no cat lives forever,’ Mudfur mewed 
softly. “Not even a leader. All you need to do is defend your 
Clan. Let StarClan take care of the rest.” 

She met his gaze, wondering what he meant. How could 
she leave it to her ancestors to protect RiverClan? They 
were dead and she was alive. She’d failed today, but she was 
more determined than ever to make sure her Clan never 
suffered again. 





CHAPTER 4 
Se 


Leopardfur dived deep, relishing the cold water after the 
heat of the greenleaf sun. She’d spotted the carp on the far 
side of the river, its scales flashing as it surfaced for a 
moment to snatch at a fly. Now she followed the deep 
channel in the middle of the riverbed, heading toward it, 
holding her breath. Her pelt was slicked along her body as 
she swam. Her tail kept her steady. Staying close to the 
bottom, she glanced up and saw the carp above her, 
silhouetted against glittering sunshine. 

She pushed up, kicking out with her legs, swishing her 
tail to give her more speed. The carp seemed to sense her 
and darted suddenly forward, but she anticipated it and 
caught it easily, snatching its tail between her teeth and 
hauling it close enough to grab with her claws. She killed it 
with a bite in the water, then carried it back to the shore, 
wading out and dropping it at Sunfish's paws. 

Leopardfur licked her lips. With prey abundant and the 
fresh-kill pile full every day now, she hoped there’d be 
enough left to taste a mouthful or two of its plump, tasty 
flesh. She blinked at Sunfish, expecting her friend to be 
impressed. But Sunfish was gazing back at the camp again. 

“Pm sure Whitekit’s fine,” Leopardfur told her, 
swallowing back exasperation. “Beetlenose will keep an eye 


on him.” 

“But he’s used to having me around,” Sunfish fretted. 

“He’s in camp,” Leopardfur reasoned. “What harm can 
come to him there?” 

Sunfish was still staring at the thick reed wall that 
shielded the camp from the river. “I think we should head 
back.” 

“We’re hardly more than a tree-length away,” Leopardfur 
pointed out. It had taken all morning to persuade Sunfish to 
leave the nursery and come hunting. She couldn’t really 
want to go home so soon. Whitekit was almost ready to 
begin his apprentice training. “And you haven’t caught a 
fish yet.” 

Sunfish glanced at the river rippling past. “Okay,” she 
agreed. “Just one and then we must go home.” 

Leopardfur shook out her dripping fur and lay down on 
the warm stones beside the water as Sunfish slid in and 
dived beneath the surface. She gave the carp a loving lick, a 
purr rising in her throat as she imagined the sweetness of 
the flesh beneath the rough scales. She longed to take a bite, 
but a good warrior fed their Clan first, so she closed her eyes 
instead and imagined one day carrying home a fish huge 
enough to feed the whole Clan. Of course, Tanglewhisker 
and Softwing preferred birds. She shuddered. Why would 
any cat want to eat their way through smelly feathers when 
fish came from the river clean and easy to bite into? But she 


should respect her Clan’s tastes and wishes. Especially if 
she was going to be their leader one day. 

As her thoughts meandered drowsily, she heard 
splashing and opened her eyes. Sunfish was padding 
toward her, a skinny perch between her jaws. 

Leopardfur heaved herself to her paws. The sun had 
almost dried her pelt already. She hoped that a taste of 
fishing had persuaded Sunfish to stay out a little longer. The 
sky was so blue and the river so refreshing that she wanted 
to stay here and hunt until sunset. “Are you sure you want 
to go back now?” 

Sunfish laid her catch on the pebbles. “Thanks for 
bringing me out here,” she mewed. “But I want to get back 
and check on Whitekit. Beetlenose is a good father, but you 
know what he’s like. Whitekit could get into all kinds of 
mischief and Beetlenose would hardly notice.” 

Leopardfur didn’t agree. Beetlenose fussed over the 
playful kit even more than Sunfish did. “You weren’t this 
anxious with your first litter,’ she pointed out. “Vixenleap 
and Grasswhisker both grew into fine warriors. And 
Silverstream too.” Sunfish had raised Crookedstar’s 
daughter after her mother, Willowbreeze, had died of 
greencough. 

“They had each other,” Sunfish argued. “Whitekit only 
has me and Beetlenose, and one kit on his own in the 
nursery is different. He can get into far more trouble.” 


“Are you sure?” Leopardfur purred. “There were three 
litters in the nursery when we were kits, and we got into 
plenty of trouble.” 

Sunfish conceded a purr. “I guess,” she mewed. “But 
once I start worrying about Whitekit, it’s hard to stop.” 

“Come on, then. Let’s go.” Leopardfur didn’t want her 
friend to feel uneasy. She picked up the carp and waded into 
the river, swam easily to the other side, and pushed her way 
through the reeds. 

Sunfish caught up to her as she padded into the camp, 
her eyes lighting up as Whitekit dashed across the clearing 
to meet them. 

“Guess what!” He bounced around them, his eyes 
shining. 

Leopardfur laid her carp on the ground and purred 
indulgently. Out of all Sunfish’s kits, she had an especially 
soft spot for Whitekit. He was so energetic and eager to 
learn. “Did you come to meet us because you smelled the 
carp?” she teased. 

Whitekit stuck out his tail indignantly. “No!” 

“Are you sure?” Leopardfur teased. “It’s your favorite 
fish, isn’t it?” 

“Yes, but I have something to tell you!” The young 
tom’s eyes were as round as an owl’s. 

Sunfish laid her fish beside Leopardfur’s. “Did you stay 
close to Beetlenose while I was gone?” Her gaze flitted 


> 


toward the nursery, where the black tom was dozing outside. 

“Of course!” Whitekit hopped from one paw to another. 
He looked like he was about to burst with frustration. “But 
listen!” 

Leopardfur glanced at Sunfish, wondering if they’d made 
the young tom wait long enough to share his news. 

Sunfish caught her eye. “Let me put these on the fresh- 
kill pile first—” 

“No!” Whitekit slapped his paws onto the skinny perch 
to stop her picking it up. “You have to listen!” 

Sunfish purred. “Okay,” she mewed. “What is it?” 

Relief flooded Whitekit’s eyes. “Crookedstar says he’s 
going to give me my apprentice name tomorrow!” He fluffed 
out his fur. “Pm going to start my training.” He glanced 
around the camp. Oakheart, the Clan’s new deputy, was 
taking a rare nap beside the warriors’ den. Echomist and 
Piketooth were sharing tongues beside him, while Whitefang 
and Cedarpelt were picking at the remains of a trout. “I 
wonder who my mentor will be.” 

Leopardfur’s heart quickened. She hoped it would be 
her. In the two greenleafs since she’d become a warrior, 
she’d never had an apprentice. Whitekit would be fun to 
train. He was boisterous and confident, yet warm-hearted 
like his mother. She was sure he’d learn quickly. 

Sunfish’s pelt had ruffled. “Are you six moons already?” 
She sounded anxious. 


“Of course!” Whitekit puffed out his chest. “Can’t you 
tell? Dll be as big as Beetlenose soon.” 

Leopardfur nudged him with her nose. “You'll have to 
eat a lot of fish to grow that big,” she mewed. 

“I will” Whitekit told her. “Once Pve learned how to 
hunt, the fresh-kill pile will always be full. And I can eat as 
much fish as I like.” 

Leopardfur glanced toward Crookedstar’s den, where the 
leader was talking to Mudfur. Perhaps the RiverClan leader 
was talking about her, wondering whether she was ready to 
become a mentor. Surely she had enough experience by 
now? She figured she’d need to have at least two 
apprentices before she had any real hope of becoming 
deputy. An experienced deputy would be better at 
supporting her leader. 

Sunfish followed her gaze. “I hope Crookedstar chooses 
someone sensible to train Whitekit.” 

Leopardfur shifted her paws. 

“Perhaps he’ll choose me,” Leopardfur mewed lightly, 
pretending to joke. 

Sunfish blinked at her, looking suddenly brighter. 
“Perhaps he will.” 


“Whitekit, you’re six moons now, and it’s time for you to 
be apprenticed.” 

Leopardfur could hardly hear Crookedstar through the 
pounding of her own heartbeat. Whitekit stood in front of 


the RiverClan leader, looking suddenly too small for his 
apprentice name. The Clan was ringed around the clearing, 
their glossy pelts washed smooth for the naming ceremony, 
their gazes fixed fondly on the warrior-to-be. Sunfish and 
Beetlenose sat together, their tails curled proudly over their 
forepaws while Grasswhisker, Vixenleap, and Silverstream 
watched beside them. 

Will he choose me? Hope still itched in Leopardfur’s 
belly. He'd have told me by now, surely. But perhaps he 
wanted it to be a surprise. 

She could see that Whitekit was trying hard not to 
fidget, his tail twitching as he pressed his paws determinedly 
into the ground. 

Crookedstar went on. “From today, until you receive 
your warrior name, you will be known as Whitepaw.” 

Leopardfur leaned forward, her ears pricked. 

“And your mentor will be Whitefang.” 

Her heart dropped like a stone in her chest. Sunfish 
caught her eye, her gaze sympathetic. But Leopardfur lifted 
her chin, telling herself that Whitefang was a good choice. 
He was kind and patient, and just what a bundle of energy 
like Whitepaw needed. There would be other apprentices for 
her—and maybe she wasn t ready yet. 

Whitepaw was staring excitedly at his new mentor as 
Whitefang padded toward him. 

Crookedstar was still speaking. “I am certain Whitefang 


will teach you well. He has a lot to share.” He tumed to 
Whitefang as the warrior reached him. “Whitefang, you 
have trained some of our best warriors.” Leopardfur’s paws 
pricked eagerly. Does he mean me? “And I know you will 
teach Whitepaw the same skills you taught them, and the 
respect and honor only a true RiverClan warrior 
understands.” 

Whitefang dipped his head to Crookedstar and touched 
his nose to Whitepaw’s head. Around her, Leopardfur’s 
Clanmates began to chant the new apprentice’s name. 

“Whitepaw!” 

“Whitepaw!” 

She joined in, pushing away the disappointment still 
lingering in her heart. At least Sunfish would be free of the 
nursery now and they could hunt and patrol together as 
much as they liked. 

As the cheering died and the Clan returned to their 
duties, Whitefang glanced at Leopardfur. She lifted her tail 
to show she was pleased and hurried to congratulate him. 
“You were a great mentor to me,” she purred as she reached 
him. “I know you’ll train Whitepaw well.” 

Whitepaw was pacing back and forth. “Can we go 
hunting straight away?” He didn’t wait for an answer. 
“Whitefang's taking me hunting!” he called to Sunfish and 
Beetlenose, who were heading toward their kit, their eyes 
bright with pride. 


“No, he’s not,” Whitefang mewed sternly. “I’m going to 
show you around RiverClan territory.” 

Whitepaw blinked at him. “Will we see the ThunderClan 
border? Will we see squirrels? Alive ones?” 

Whitefang’s sternness seemed to melt. He broke into a 
purr. “Yes. And we’ll see the WindClan border too,” he told 
Whitepaw. “It'll be a long trek. I hope you’re ready.” 

“Tam so ready.” Whitepaw ducked away as Sunfish tried 
to nuzzle himand raced for the camp entrance. 

Whitefang caught Leopardfur’s eye. “He’s going to keep 
me even busier than you did,” he mewed as he hurried after 
the young tom. 


The sun had scorched the camp all morning, and 
Leopardfur was looking forward to the cool of the night. 

“Leopardfur.” 

She jerked around as Crookedstar called her name. The 
RiverClan leader was standing with Oakheart in the shade of 
the sedge wall. Hurrying from the warriors’ den, where she’d 
been helping Sunfish to weave fresh willow into the walls, 
Leopardfur went to stand in front of them. “Yes?” 

“I want you to lead a patrol to Sunningrocks,” 
Crookedstar told her. 

Her tail twitched with excitement. Sunningrocks had 
changed paws so many times in recent moons that any 
border patrol there had become an important mission. Was 
Crookedstar showing her that he thought she was ready for 


more responsibility? 

She met his gaze steadily. “Who shall I take with me?” 

“You decide.” 

Her heart quickened. He trusts me. Around the clearing, 
she was aware of her Clanmates’ gazes. Whitefang had 
stopped rummaging through the fresh-kill pile and was 
looking at her with interest. Stonefur and Frogleap watched 
her from the patch of grass where they’d been sharing an 
eel. Skyheart paused as she padded sleepily from the 
warriors’ den, while Rippleclaw and Ottersplash got to their 
paws, their ears pricking. 

“Be careful, though,” Crookedstar cautioned. 

“I understand,” Leopardfur told him. There was always a 
chance of trouble at Sunningrocks, but she was ready to 
deal with anything. 

“T want the border marked clearly,” Crookedstar went on. 
“ThunderClan needs to be sure where it is.” 

Oakheart narrowed his eyes. “Take a large patrol,” he 
told her. “Just in case.” 

“Okay.” Leopardfur dipped her head and turned toward 
the warriors’ den, where Sunfish was still working on the 
wall. Her friend hadn’t been on a border patrol since she’d 
left the nursery a few days earlier. “Sunfish!” 

“Yes?” The gray she-cat tucked in the end of a willow 
stem and turned to look at Leopardfur. 

“Pm leading a patrol to Sunningrocks,” she called. “Do 


you want to come?” 

“Of course.” Sunfish hurried toward her. 

Whitepaw, who’d been grooming Tanglewhisker’s pelt 
for ticks beside the elders’ den, looked up. “Can I come 
too?” 

Whitefang left the fresh-kill pile and crossed the 
clearing. “You're staying here,” he told his apprentice firmly. 

Whitepaw bristled. “But I need to know where the 
border is.” He abandoned Tanglewhisker’s pelt and hurried 
toward his mentor. “You didn’t show me that part when you 
showed me our territory.” 

“Because it’s too dangerous,” Whitefang mewed. 

Leopardfur shifted her paws. She’d been planning to ask 
Whitefang to join the patrol, but she didn’t want to cause a 
rift between Whitepaw and his mentor. And yet this was the 
first time she’d led a patrol to Sunningrocks. She’d feel more 
confident if Whitefang was there. She pretended she 
couldn’t see Whitepaw’s wide, longing gaze. “Will you 
come?” she asked Whitefang. 

Whitepaw’s tail twitched with indignation. “That’s not 
fair!” 

Whitefang looked at him. “You don’t know enough 
battle moves.” 

“Tcould learn,” Whitepaw mewed. 

“A warrior leams before a battle, not during,” Whitefang 
mewed. 


Whitepaw’s pelt prickled excitedly. “Is there going to be 
a battle?” 

“No.” Leopardfur lifted her muzzle. “But it’s still too 
dangerous. If there is trouble, you’re not experienced 
enough to handle it.” 

Whitefang cut in before Whitepaw could argue. “There’s 
plenty for you to do in camp.” He nodded toward 
Tanglewhisker, who was struggling to nibble at an itch on 
his flank. “You haven’t finished pulling out Tanglewhisker’s 
ticks yet. And there’s the elders’ bedding to be changed.” 

Whitepaw scowled at his mentor “I thought I was 
learning to be a warrior, not a nest cleaner.” 

Leopardfur blinked at him sympathetically. “Every ’paw 
has to do things they don’t like,” she told him. 

Sunfish nodded. “It’s how you learn to be a true 
warrior.” 

Whitepaw turned his tail on them. “I don’t see how,” he 
muttered crossly, stomping back toward Tanglewhisker. 

Leopardfur was relieved to be leaving the young tom 
here in camp. Leading a patrol of experienced warriors was 
challenging enough. She called to Stonefur and Frogleap. 
“Come with us.” Ottersplash and Rippleclaw were staring at 
her eagerly. They were skilled warriors too. With them, the 
patrol would be strong enough to deal with anything. “And 
you.” She beckoned them with her tail, relieved when they 
bounded to join her. It felt strange to be giving orders to 


such senior warriors. 

She headed out of camp, reassured as Whitefang fell in 
beside her. Ottersplash and Rippleclaw followed as she led 
the patrol through the reed bed and waded into the river. It 
was shallow here and easy to cross, and the path on the far 
bank led straight to Sunningrocks. It would save them from 
having to follow the river and scramble up the cliff from the 
shore. 

She swam across the river and climbed out. 

Sunfish caught up to her as she shook out her fur. “I 
can’t believe you used to be scared of the water,” she 
whispered. 

“I might still be scared of it if you hadn’t put that carp 
on the other side,” Leopardfur purred. 

She checked that the rest of the patrol was still with her. 
Ottersplash, Whitefang, and Rippleclaw were already 
waiting on the path. Stonefur and Frogleap were climbing 
out a few tail-lengths downstream. Leopardfur was always 
impressed by what a strong swimmer Stonefur was. 

“Let's go.” Leopardfur headed up the path to 
Sunningrocks. At the top, a broad sweep of ThunderClan’s 
forest edged the wide stretch of sun-drenched stone. It was 
past sunhigh, but the rock still held the midday heat and 
burned her paws. She crossed it quickly, signaling the patrol 
to follow with a flick of her tail. 

Beneath the shade thrown by the trees, she nodded to 


Whitefang. “Take Rippleclaw and Ottersplash and mark the 
border as far as the cliff edge.” She looked at Stonefur, 
Frogleap, and Sunfish. “We’ll mark the trees on the other 
side.” As Whitefang led the others away, she headed for an 
oak and sniffed it. The scent markers left by the last 
RiverClan patrol had faded almost to nothing, and she 
marked it freshly and moved on to the next. Frogleap and 
Sunfish spread out and marked the trees farther along. 

Sunfish paused, lifting her muzzle. 

Leopardfur glanced at her. Her friend’s pelt was prickling 
along her spine. “What's wrong?” 

“Can you smell ThunderClan?” 

As Sunfish spoke, a hiss sounded from the cliff top. 
Leopardfur whirled around and saw Whitefang and 
Ottersplash backing away from it. 

Rippleclaw was still peering over the edge. “There’s a 
ThunderClan patrol down there,” he growled. 

Leopardfur stiffened. “What are they doing near 
Sunningrocks?” 

“They haven’t crossed the border,” Whitefang mewed, 
but he sounded wary. 

“Yet,” Rippleclaw mewed ominously. 

Leopardfur’s hackles lifted. 

“They’re climbing the slope,’ Rippleclaw warned. “It 
looks like they’re heading this way.” 

Did the ThunderClan patrol know they were here? Had 


they been waiting for a RiverClan patrol to show up? 
Oakheart had been right to suggest bringing so many 
warriors. Anger pulsed beneath her pelt. 

“Stand with me.” Leopardfur gathered the patrol and 
faced the forest where the border met the stones. She curled 
her lip as she glimpsed pelts through the undergrowth. The 
stench of ThunderClan bathed her tongue. Bushing out her 
fur, she glared angrily at the ThunderClan cats as they slid 
between the brambles and padded into view. 

Leopardfur recognized Redtail, ThunderClan’s deputy. 
Lionheart and Whitestorm were with him. Flanking them 
were Tigerclaw and Mousefur, and, at the rear, Runningwind 
and Longtail shifted in the shadows between the trees. 

She flattened her ears. “What are you doing here?” she 
snarled at Redtail. 

“We're marking our border.” Redtail narrowed his eyes. 
“Just like you.” 

“You "re on our land.” Leopardfur gazed pointedly at his 
forepaws. Their tips reached across the border line and 
touched the stone. 

“Am I?” Redtail blinked at her innocently but didn’t 
move. 

He wants a fight. Leopardfur swallowed back a hiss. 

Whitefang murmured in her ear “They’re trying to 
provoke you,” he mewed. “Let’s just finish marking the 
border and move on.” 


Leopardfur stared at him. “And let them think they 
scared us away?” 

“Pm not scared,” Whitefang told her evenly. “But this 
isn’t the time for a fight. We're not prepared.” 

“We're warriors,” she hissed back. “We're always 
prepared.” 

Redtail sniffed. “Are you trying to work out where your 
border is?” 

“We know where our border is,” Rippleclaw snarled. 

“Really?” Tigerclaw narrowed his eyes. “Because we can 
barely smell it. We thought you'd given up marking it.” 

Ottersplash flattened her ears. “What do you think we’re 
here to do now?” 

“Lie in the sun?” Redtail mewed. “Isn’t that what 
RiverClan is best at?” 

“Its not like you're going to hunt here,” Tigerclaw 
added. “RiverClan cats can’t catch anything but fish.” 

Rage chumed in Leopardfur’s belly. “All ThunderClan 
cats can catch is greencough,” she snapped. 

Redtail and Tigerclaw exchanged glances, and Redtail 
slid his paw forward a little more. 

“Get off our land!” Leopardfur wasn’t going to leave 
until they did. Whatever Whitefang said, ThunderClan was 
clearly planning to trespass as soon as RiverClan turned 
their backs. 

Whitefang leaned closer. “Let’s go back and report this 


to Crookedstar,” he whispered. 

“And let them spread their stink all over our land?” 
Leopardfur showed her teeth. 

Sunfish looked at her nervously. “Should I go and fetch 
help?” 

“We don’t need help.” Leopardfur didn’t take her eyes 
off Redtail. If he made a move, she was ready. “There are 
enough ofus here to chase themoff.” 

Whitestorm, the white ThunderClan warrior, glanced at 
Redtail. “Let’s mark the border and leave,” he mewed. 

Rippleclaw lashed his tail. “Yeah,” he snarled. “Just 
leave.” 

Tigerclaw stuck out his chest. “RiverClan doesn’t tell 
ThunderClan what to do!” 

Ottersplash glared at him. “Go home, squirrel-chaser.” 

Redtail’s pelt was twitching. Looking Leopardfur in the 
eye, he mewed slowly, “We’ll leave when you leave.” As he 
spoke, his paw slid forward a little more. 

“He’s just trying to rile you up,” Whitefang urged. 

But Leopardfur hardly heard him. Rage roared in her 
ears. She remembered Mudfur’s words. All you need to do is 
defend your Clan. She wasn’t going to let this bunch of 
mangy mouse-chewers take a single tail-length of RiverClan 
territory. 

Redtail slid his paw forward again. With a hiss, she 
leaped for the ThunderClan deputy and bundled him to the 


ground. Wrapping her paws around him, she rolled him onto 
the stone, churning at his belly with her hind legs. Around 
her, yowls exploded, echoing around the trees as the two 
patrols flew at each other. 

Redtail slithered like a fish between her paws and ducked 
free. Tuming on her, he knocked her forepaws from beneath 
her. Leopardfur’s shoulder hit the hard stone with a thump, 
and she felt him clawing at her ears. Beside her, Rippleclaw 
brought his forepaws slamming down on Whitestorm’s 
shoulders, while Sunfish and Frogleap fought back 
Lionheart with slashing claws. Rage drowned out the sting 
of Redtail’s claws, and she pushed herself up and reared, 
raking the ThunderClan deputy’s nose. 

Claws hooked her shoulders and tugged her backward. 
Staggering, she fought to keep her balance and glanced 
back to see Mousefur snarling at her ear. Redtail’s eyes lit up 
as he saw her struggle. He lifted a paw and flung a blow at 
her cheek. It hit her with such force that she reeled to one 
side. But Mousefur kept hold of her, dragging her down 
onto the stone. For the first time, panic flared through her. 
She kicked out, pushing Redtail away with a hefty shove, 
and tried to shake Mousefur free. 

A striped tail flashed at the corner of her vision. 
Frogleap! He’d leaped across the rock, skimming her by a 
whisker and slamming into Mousefur. He knocked the 
ThunderClan she-cat away and pinned her to the rock with 


such ease that Leopardfur blinked, impressed by the 
deftness of his movement. She hadn’t realized that he’d 
become such a skilled warrior. She’d thought of him only as 
the clumsy kit who’d tripped over his tail every time they’d 
played moss-ball. 

A shriek made her jerk her muzzle around. Sunfish was 
staggering, her eyes bright with pain. Redtail had turned his 
attack on the gray tabby, and his claws were wet with her 
blood. As Sunfish dropped to her belly, a red stain 
spreading across her flank, Redtailreared for another attack. 

Leopardfur leaped for him, thrusting him away with her 
forepaws so ferociously that he yowled in surprise as he fell 
back against a tree. Falling clumsily among the roots, he 
struggled to find his paws. 

Leopardfur turned. “Sunfish, are you okay?” 

Whitefang and Lionheart whirled in front of her. She 
froze. The great toms were slashing at each other, their 
massive paws swishing through the air. Blood sprayed the 
stone as Whitefang caught Lionheart’s ear. With a roar of 
pain, Lionheart struck back, lashing out at Whitefang with a 
swipe that caught the white warrior’s neck. 

Leopardfur froze as she saw Whitefang’s eyes widen 
with disbelief. Around her the battle seemed to stand still as 
Whitefang’s throat turned red, his soft fur crimson in the 
afternoon sun. Whitefang slowed, staggered, then fell to the 
ground. He landed with a thump, and the two patrols fell 


back, seeming to sense that something terrible had 
happened. 

Redtail waved Tigerclaw away with his tail, staring in 
horror at Whitefang as he collapsed onto the stone. 

Leopardfur’s heart missed a beat. Her breath caught in 
her throat as Whitefang’s body grew limp and his eyes 
turned dull. She darted to his side and crouched beside him. 
“Whitefang.” She shook him with her paws. “Whitefang. 
Wake up.” 

“He's dead... .” Rippleclaw touched her shoulder with 
his muzzle. “Let's get him back to camp.” 

Leopardfur glanced at the ThunderClan patrol. They 
were watching in silence, but they hadn’t withdrawn. 
Sunfish was struggling to her paws, blood welling on her 
flank. Ottersplash and Stonefur hurried to help her. This 
wasn’t a battle they could win now. Leopardfur met 
Rippleclaw’s gaze and nodded. 

The black-and-silver tabby tom grabbed Whitefang by 
the scruff and nodded to Frogleap. Frogleap ducked beneath 
Whitefang’s body and let Rippleclaw heave him onto his 
shoulders. Holding Whitefang in place, Rippleclaw guided 
Frogleap toward the river path. Ottersplash and Stonefur 
limped slowly behind him, supporting Sunfish. 

Leopardfur didn’t move. Her paws felt rooted to the 
stone as she stared at the ThunderClan patrol. How had this 
happened? It made no sense. They should have chased the 


ThunderClan patrol off. No cat was supposed to get hurt. 

Redtail was watching her, his gaze narrow with interest. 
Tigerclaw’s eyes betrayed nothing. Runningwind, Mousefur, 
and Whitestorm looked blank. Only Lionheart seemed 
shocked, his pelt rippling uneasily as Frogleap and 
Rippleclaw carried Whitefang off. 

Leopardfur said nothing and turned away. Words would 
only emphasize her defeat. She padded stiffly after her 
Clanmates. 

Twill not forget this. 

It took three of them to carry Whitefang across the river. 
Frogleap supported him on his back while Leopardfur and 
Rippleclaw held him on either side. The water ran red behind 
them as the injured patrol staggered out on the far side. 
Pushing through the reed bed, they carried Whitefang home. 

“Leopardfur?” Mudfur hurried from the medicine den as 
the patrol reached the clearing. Had the scent of blood 
alerted him? His gaze flitted over her pelt and across the rest 
of the patrol before he began to give orders. “Take Sunfish 
to the medicine den,” he told Ottersplash and Stonefur. “Lay 
Whitefang down here.” 

Crookedstar was running across the clearing, Oakheart 
at his heels. Leopardfur stared at the RiverClan leader 
wordlessly as he stopped beside Whitefang. 

“Is he dead?” Crookedstar’s eyes were wide with horror. 

“Yes.” Mudfur touched the white warrior’s cheek with 


his paw. “He’s with StarClan now.” 

Leopardfur was aware of her Clanmates clustering 
around them. She could hear them murmuring but didn’t try 
to make out the words. Whitefang was dead. The kind, 
thoughtful mentor who had taught her the first hunting 
move she’d ever learned was gone. He’d never sleep in the 
warriors? den again, or cross the clearing to rummage 
through the fresh-kill pile, or hunt beside her on the 
riverbank. 

“Leopardfur” Mudfur was nudging her shoulder with 
his nose. “Come and help me with Sunfish.” He steered her 
toward the medicine den. “She’ll need you.” 

Beetlenose was already inside. He was crouching beside 
Sunfish as she lay in a moss-lined nest, her eyes still wide 
with shock. Stonefur and Ottersplash blinked nervously in 
the gloom. 

“Every cat out except Leopardfur,” Mudfur ordered. 

“But—” Beetlenose began. 

“Go and reassure your kits that she’ll be all right,” 
Mudfur told him. 

“Will she?” Beetlenose’s eyes were glittering with worry. 

“It's just a battle wound,” Mudfur told him. “You can 
come and see her when I’ve cleaned and dressed it.” He 
shooed Beetlenose from the den with his tail, along with 
Ottersplash and Stonefur. Leopardfur blinked at him, still 
numb with shock. 


“Talk to her while I make a poultice,” he told her. 

She nodded and crouched down beside Sunfish’s nest. 

Sunfish was sniffing at the wound on her flank, her 
whiskers trembling. “Is it deep?” 

Leopardfur forced herself to focus. She looked at the 
wound, at the long scratches where Redtail had tom 
Sunfish’s flesh. “Not too deep,” she lied. The scratches 
looked red and angry, and she was relieved when Mudfur 
brought a leaf wrapped around a sharp-smelling poultice. 
She leaned back to give himroom to smear it into the wound. 

“You'll feel better in no time,” Leopardfur promised. 
“And PI tell Whitepaw how bravely you fought.” 

Sunfish winced as Mudfur worked the poultice in. “I’m 
just glad Whitefang told himto stay behind.” 

How would Whitepaw react to his mentor’s death? 
Leopardfur’s belly tightened. She shouldn’t have let the 
ThunderClan patrol insult them. She should have attacked 
straight away. Perhaps they could have caught them off 
guard. 

“Come outside.” Mudfur was looking at her. 

She glanced toward Sunfish. “Don’t we have to...” 

“The poultice needs time to work before I dress it.” He 
padded toward the entrance, nodding at Sunfish. “Lie still,” 
he told her. “The poppy seeds I gave you will start to work 
soon, and youll feel more comfortable.” 

Leopardfur glanced at her friend. “Pl be back in a 


moment,” she promised. She followed Mudfur outside, 
relieved he was here. She could still hardly believe 
Whitefang was dead. 

He stopped in the shade of the sedge and faced her. 
“What happened?” 

“A  ThunderClan patrol was planning to take 
Sunningrocks,” she told him. “We fought them off.” 

“You chased themaway?” Mudfur stared at her. 

“Not exactly.” 

“They’re still there, then?” 

“We had to bring Whitefang and Sunfish home.” Should 
she have kept fighting? 

“So Whitefang died for nothing.” 

Leopardfur felt suddenly cold. She blinked at him. Was 
he angry? 

He went on. “And was Sunfish wounded just so you 
could say you defended RiverClan?” 

“I did defend RiverClan.” Leopardfur’s pelt began to 
prickle with indignation. Mudfur was being unfair. 

“So ThunderClan attacked you.” 

“They crossed the border.” 

“And attacked you,” Mudfur pressed. 

“They didn’t attack us,” Leopardfur told him. “But they 
were going to.” 

“And you know that because you can read minds.” 
Mudfur was trembling. Fury blazed in his eyes. 


“I could read their faces!” Leopardfur mewed hotly. “I 
had to defend our territory.” 

“There’s a difference between defending territory and 
starting an unnecessary battle,” Mudfur growled. 

“How do you know?” Leopardfur flattened her ears. 
“You weren’t there.” 

“I know warriors,” Mudfur growled. “They think that 
land is more important than life, and pride is more important 
than anything. They fight the same battles over and over 
again, pretending that fighting solves problems, when really 
it just makes them worse.” 

Leopardfur’s heart pounded. “Don’t dump your issues 
on me,” she hissed. “Just because you can’t stomach 
fighting anymore doesn’t mean I have to be less of a warrior. 
I’m not going to back down from a fight! If you don’t 
understand what being a warrior means anymore, that’s not 
my problem. ThunderClan started this. ThunderClan killed 
Whitefang and hurt Sunfish. If I stood up to them, that 
doesn’t make me the villain.” 

Mudfur stared at her, then turned and headed back into 
the medicine den. Her heart suddenly ached with grief. The 
battle should never have happened. Whitefang should still 
be alive. But it wasn’t her fault, it was ThunderClan’s, and 
Mudfur wasn’t going to persuade her that a true warrior 
could have made any other choice. 


Gray skies hid the sun, but the air felt thick, and 


Leopardfur longed for the storm to bring cool, fresh wind to 
the camp. Her heart had sat like a stone in her chest as she’d 
crouched beside Whitepaw during Whitefang’s vigil. 
Through the long, sticky night, the Clan had sat with the 
dead warrior’s body as it lay in the middle of the clearing, 
dressed with flowers from the meadow and nestled in a bed 
made of reeds. 

At dawn, Crookedstar had led the patrol that carried the 
body out of camp and buried it downstream. He returned 
now with Oakheart, Stonefur, and Piketooth, their paws still 
muddy from digging, and padded to the middle of the camp. 

“Let all cats old enough to swim gather to hear my 
words,” he yowled. 

Ottersplash and Timberfur padded from the sedge wall. 
Tanglewhisker led Birdsong from the elders’ den. Skyheart 
stood close to Blackclaw and Loudbelly as their Clanmates 
gathered in a circle around their leader. The remains of 
Whitefang’s bed of reeds still sat in the clearing, and 
Crookedstar glanced at it fora moment before he began. 

“ThunderClan has once more taken the life of a brave 
RiverClan warrior.” He looked at Leopardfur. “Once again, 
we’ve had to bravely defend the rocks given to us by 
StarClan countless moons ago. But Whitefang will be 
remembered. He gave his life to preserve our land.” The 
RiverClan cats glanced at one another, their gazes heavy 
with grief. Crookedstar lifted his chin. “Whitefang was 


training a young warrior who will always carry with him the 
lessons his mentor taught him. In this way, no warrior ever 
truly leaves RiverClan. By teaching others, we leave behind 
our skill and our wisdom.” His gaze flitted to Whitepaw, who 
was standing beside Beetlenose, his eyes glistening. “But 
just because Whitefang is dead doesn’t mean Whitepaw will 
stop learning. His new mentor will be Leopardfur.” 

Surprise sparked through Leopardfur’s pelt as 
Crookedstar went on. “Whitefang taught her well, and she 
will be able to pass on his knowledge to Whitepaw. She has 
proved herself a loyal and strong warrior and more than 
ready to train an apprentice.” He beckoned her forward with 
a nod, and she hurried across the clearing. 

Whitepaw blinked at her and padded forward, glancing 
uncertainly at Crookedstar, who gave him an encouraging 
nod. “Leopardfur will be a fine mentor,” he mewed. 

Leopardfur’s paws pricked nervously. Was Whitefang 
watching from StarClan? Would he approve? “PI be the best 
mentor I can,” she promised Whitepaw. 

As her Clanmates began to call Whitepaw’s name, 
Leopardfur caught her father’s eyes. Mudfur was watching 
her, his eyes dark. She looked away. It didn’t matter what he 
thought. She’d defended her Clan, and that was the greatest 
thing a warrior could do. 


“Hows Whitepaw doing?” Sunfish blinked at 
Leopardfur, her eyes dull with fever. 


“He’s really talented.” Leopardfur shifted closer to 
Sunfish’s nest. It had been a quarter moon since the fight 
with ThunderClan. Sunfish should have been out of the 
medicine den and in her own nest by now, but the wound on 
her flank was taking time to heal; even from here, Leopardfur 
could smell the sourness of infection. 

“Is he learning quickly?” Sunfish didn’t wait for an 
answer. She sounded fretful. “He always was smart. Does he 
do as he’s told? I hope he’s not being a bother.” 

Beetlenose shifted beside her. He’d been with Sunfish 
day and night since the battle. “Of course he’s not being a 
bother,” he mewed. 

“He’s easy to train.” Leopardfur lapped Sunfish’s ear 
with her tongue, alarmed at how hot it felt. “I love being his 
mentor.” It was true. Whitepaw was a fast learner and eager 
to improve, and he was quick on his paws. But she was 
concerned: He was still grieving for Whitefang, and he was 
worried about his mother. So she’d kept him busy, taking him 
out for most of the day and giving him chores in camp until 
late. He never complained, which worried her even more. In 
the past, he would have objected to fetching fresh moss for 
the nursery or picking fish bones out of the elders’ nests. 
But now he just dipped his head obediently and followed 
her orders without question. She forced a purr to reassure 
Sunfish. “He’s going to make a great warrior.” 

Beetlenose looked up as Mudfur padded into the den. 


“Have you tried every herb?” he asked the medicine cat 
anxiously. 

“Yes.” Mudfur padded to Sunfish’s nest and looked 
gravely at his patient. “Ifshe rests and tries to eat, she’ll pull 
through.” 

Beetlenose blinked at him gratefully, but Leopardfur 
recognized doubt in her father’s mew. His uncertainty scared 
her. 

“Do you want me to fetch you some prey?” she asked 
Sunfish. 

Sunfish shook her head slowly. 

“Maybe just a minnow?” Leopardfur pressed. 

“No thanks.” 

Beetlenose’s eyes darkened. “I’ve been trying to 
persuade her to eat all day, but she has no appetite.” 

“TI give her some more feverfew,’ Mudfur mewed. 
“That might help.” 

As he padded away to his herb store, Leopardfur got to 
her paws. Whitepaw was waiting outside with Vixenleap and 
Grasswhisker. They’d visited Sunfish earlier, but Mudfur 
didn’t want his patient worn out. Silverstream was with 
them, staying close to the medicine den in case ofnews. 

Leopardfur touched her nose to Sunfish’s warm head. 
“Rest,” she murmured. “Pll visit you again tomorrow.” 

Beetlenose moved closer to his mate as she left the den. 

Outside, fluffy white clouds dotted the afternoon sky. 


Whitepaw hurried to meet her. “Is she any better?” His eyes 
were round with worry. 

“She seems a little brighter,” Leopardfur told him, 
knowing it wasn’t true but wanting to put his mind at rest. 
He seemed relieved, his pelt smoothing a little, and guilt 
prickled in her belly. “Check on Tanglewhisker and 
Birdsong,” she told him. “They might need something.” 

“Okay.” He hurried away, and she hoped his apprentice 
duties would be enough to distract him. 

As she crossed the clearing, Frogleap fell in beside her. 

“Is Sunfish any better?” he asked. 

She glanced at him, wondering if she could be honest. 
Sunfish was his littermate. 

He looked back at her steadily. “It’s okay,” he mewed. “I 
can handle it.” 

She felt relieved and sad all at once. “I think she’s 
getting weaker.” 

“But she’s strong.” Frogleap guided her toward the 
fresh-kill pile. “If any cat can fight this infection, she can.” 
The prey was already starting to stink. Leopardfur’s nose 
wrinkled. Frogleap hooked a small carp from the bottom, 
where the shade had kept it cool. He laid it at her paws, then 
took a limp sparrow from the top for himself. She picked it up 
and followed himto a shady spot beside the sedge. 

As he dropped the sparrow on the grass, she settled 
beside him and stared at the carp. Guilt was still pricking her 


belly, and not because she’d lied to Whitepaw. “I should 
have protected her,’ she mewed. “I should have stopped 
Redtail from hurting her.” 

“T think about that every time I close my eyes,” Frogleap 
told her. “If only Pd been quicker or stronger .. .” His gaze 
drifted toward the medicine den. “But we can’t change what 
happened.” He pushed the carp closer to Leopardfur. “And 
starving ourselves won’t help the Clan.” 

Leopardfur watched him take a bite of his sparrow, 
noticing for the first time how broad his head was now and 
how tightly his muscles bunched beneath his pelt as he 
moved. He seemed so different from the gangly kit she’d 
grown up with. She pushed the thought away and bit into 
the carp, forcing herself to swallow a mouthful. How could 
she eat this prey when Sunfish needed it more than she did? 


Leopardfur padded into camp. It was swathed in the 
purple shadow as the sun sank behind the distant moor. 
Skyheart, Ottersplash, and Timberfur followed her quietly 
after a long border patrol. Her paws ached, and she was 
looking forward to curling in hernest... 

Until she saw Mudfur hurrying toward her. “Sunfish has 
been asking for you,” he mewed as he reached her. 

Leopardfur’s chest tightened. She dashed to the 
medicine den, slowing as she reached the entrance and 
willing her pelt to smooth before she padded softly in. 
“Sunfish?” 


In the evening light it was hard to make out the gray 
tabby in her nest, but her eyes glinted in the gloom. 

“Leopardfur.” She sounded relieved. “I was worried you 
wouldn’t come in time.” 

In time? Leopardfur swallowed back alarm. What did she 
mean? “You’re not going anywhere, are you?” she mewed, 
trying to joke away the foreboding in Sunfish’s words. 

Sunfish blinked at her. “I wanted to talk to you while 
Beetlenose was resting.” She looked at the nest beside her, 
and Leopardfur realized that Beetlenose was curled inside, 
his breathing slow and deep as he slept. 

She crouched close to Sunfish, alarmed at the warmth 
flooding her friend’s pelt. Her fever must be worse. She 
lowered her voice. “What do you want to tell me?” 

“Look after Whitepaw.” Sunfish’s mew was husky. 

“Of course I will” Leopardfur whispered. “I’m his 
mentor. I'll make sure he doesn’t get hurt.” 

“I mean, if anything happens to me.” Sunfish was gazing 
at her with an intensity that frightened her. 

“The only thing that’s going to happen to you is that 
you’re going to get better,” Leopardfur told her. She had to 
get better. Anything else was unthinkable. 

“But if it does,” Sunfish pressed quietly, “I want you to 
be there for him, like kin.” She glanced at Beetlenose. “I 
know he’ll have his father and Grasswhisker and Vixenleap. 
And Silverstream will look out for him too, but it’s not the 


same.” 

“Not the same as what?” 

“As having a mother” Sunfish’s eyes shone. “He’s 
young. He still needs a mother, even though he doesn’t 
realize it. I want you to watch over him as I would. Make 
sure he’s okay. Care for him.” She paused, as though trying 
to catch her breath. 

A chill seemed to reach through Leopardfur’s pelt 
despite the warmth of the evening. I’ve never been a mother, 
she thought. I’ve never even wanted to be a mother 
Leopardfur felt out of her depth. “You’re going to get 
better,” she insisted again. 

Sunfish didn’t take her eyes from Leopardfur. “But if I 
don’t,” she mewed. “Promise me.” Leopardfur’s mouth grew 
dry as Sunfish’s gaze grew desperate. “Promise you'll take 
care of him.” 

Leopardfur heard her friend’s words, but they sounded 
almost as strange as a dog’s bark or a bird’s chirp. She 
couldn’t bear to agree, because she didn’t want to admit to 
Sunfish how bad things looked. But how could she say no? 
“Of course I will.” 

Beetlenose lifted his head and blinked sleepily for a 
moment before scrambling to his paws. “Was I asleep long?” 
He hopped out of his nest and nosed his way past 
Leopardfur to touch his nose to Sunfish’s cheek. “How are 
you feeling?” 


Leopardfur was relieved to let Beetlenose take her place. 
He could comfort Sunfish better than she could. 

She backed out of the den, her pelt prickling with 
unease. She loved Whitepaw as much as she could love any 
kit, but did she have the skills she’d need to be a mother to 
him? 

“Is she okay?” 

Whitepaw’s mew made her jump. She whirled around and 
saw him blinking at her, like a shadow in the evening light. 
His eyes were hollow, as though he hadn’t slept for days. 
“Yes,” she told him, even though she knew it wasn’t true. 

“T knew it.” Whitepaw’s ears pricked eagerly. “I visited 
her earlier and she seemed better.” 

Leopardfur stared at him. Did he really believe that? 
“She'll probably be even better after a good night’s sleep.” 

“Do you think so?” Whitepaw held her gaze as though 
trying to read it. Leopardfur had to force herself not to look 
away, not to betray her own terrible thoughts. 

Her thoughts that Sunfish did not have long. 

She shook out her pelt. “Why don’t we go practice night 
hunting,” she mewed. 

They both needed to stay busy. With any luck, she’d 
wear Whitepaw out and he’d be able to sleep. 


It felt like she’d only been asleep for a moment when she 
felt her nest shaking. She opened her eyes. The warriors’ 
den was gray as pale dawn light seeped through the woven 


walls. 

Her nest shook again. Whitepaw was tugging at it, his 
eyes fixed on her, wide and shimmering with grief. “She’s 
dead,” he breathed. 

Leopardfur stared at him, still dazed with sleep. Beside 
her, Ottersplash was breathing peacefully in her nest. 
Timberfur was snoring. All around the den, her Clanmates 
were sleeping. Was this a dream? 

Whitepaw was trembling. This wasn’t a dream. This was 
real. “Sunfish died.” 

Pain tore at her heart like a vicious dog. She wanted to 
close her eyes and bury her muzzle beneath her paws until it 
eased. But how could it ever ease? Sunfish was dead, and 
the hope Leopardfur had tried to give Whitepaw last night 
had become a lie. 

He stared at her, his eyes reflecting her own pain so 
intensely she couldn’t bear to see it. She grabbed his scruff 
and pulled him into her nest. Wrapping herself around him, 
she held himclose. Her heart seemed to beat in time with his 
sobs until she thought it would break. 

Staring at the den wall, she pictured the reed bed and the 
river and, beyond that, ThunderClan’s forest. ThunderClan 
would still be sleeping, unaware that they’d killed two of the 
cats Leopardfur had loved best. Mudfur might have blamed 
her for starting the fight that had killed them, but she knew 
who was really to blame. ThunderClan had done this—and 


as Whitepaw wept in the warmth of her pelt, she vowed 
never to forgive them. 





CHAPTER 5 
¥ 


Leopardfur 5 tail twitched eagerly as the wren that had 
been flitting from branch to branch of the alder finally 
fluttered down to the shore. Her patience had paid off. And 
she’d been impressed with how quietly Whitepaw had 
waited beside her this time. She hadn’t heard him sigh or 
even so much as shift his paws as they’d crouched behind 
the rock at the water’s edge, waiting for the wren to land. 

In the days since Sunfish’s death, the young tom had 
been distracted; it had been hard to make him concentrate 
on any part of his training. Yesterday, instead of diving for 
larger fish, he’d splashed around in the shallows, slapping at 
minnows with his paws. The day before, when she’d tried to 
teach him how to move silently through a reed bed, he’d 
crashed through it carelessly, chasing a dragonfly. But today 
he’d been as quiet as a mouse. 

She glanced around at him, ready to signal that they 
could finally creep out of hiding. 

He’d disappeared. Frustration pulsed in her paws. She 
sat up so sharply that the wren, startled, fluttered up into the 
safety of the branches. Where was her apprentice? She 
scanned the shoreline and then the ferns spilling between 
the trees at the top of the shore. 

Dark brown fur rippled between the fronds. She marched 


toward it, her tail flicking crossly. 

As she neared, Whitepaw stuck his head out and 
blinked at her excitedly. “Guess what!” 

Didn’t he realize he was in trouble? “What?” she 
snapped. 

“I found a sparrow’s nest.” He ducked back among the 
ferns. “Come and look.” 

Frowning, she pushed her way between the stems and 
found him standing beside a heap of tangled twigs. 

“Tt must have fallen.” Whitepaw glanced up at the 
branches above his head. Then he poked the twigs. “There 
are still feathers in it. We could take them back for 
Beetlenose’s nest. It would keep him warm.” 

“It's greenleaf,” she growled. “He doesn’t need to keep 
warm.” 

“But he’s used to having Sunfish beside him” 
Whitepaw stared at her anxiously. 

Leopardfur’s anger toward the young tom melted. He 
was still grieving, as she was; of course every thought 
would still lead him back to Sunfish. She resolved to be 
compassionate, calming her breath. “Let’s catch a duck.” 
She was still his mentor, and they were supposed to be 
training. “Duck feathers are softer than sparrow.” She 
nodded him toward the riverbank. 

Whitepaw hesitated. “But it’s so hard sitting still,” he 
mewed. “Can’t we practice battle moves instead?” 


She remembered how often she’d persuaded Whitefang 
to change his training plans to avoid fishing. Perhaps it was 
unfair to make Whitepaw sit still when he was still hurting 
from Sunfish’s death. Practicing battle skills might keep his 
paws busy enough to stop him worrying. “Okay,” she 
mewed. 

His lifted his tail happily and followed her as she led the 
way to a clear stretch of earth beneath the trees and dropped 
into a battle crouch, preparing to demonstrate. 

“Watch how I shift my weight to one side—” 

Paws thumped onto her back. 

“I win!” Whitepaw stood on top of her. He gave her a 
playful nip behind her ear that reminded of her of the play 
fights she’d had with him while he was still a kit. Sunfish had 
watched, purring as they played. She should be upset—he 
was her apprentice, and he should be taking his training 
seriously—but he’d suffered such a loss. They both had. 
Perhaps it wouldn’t do any harmto play a little today. 

She reared up and tried halfheartedly to shake him off, 
but he gripped on tighter. “Pl squash you,” she teased, 
dropping onto her belly as ifshe was about to roll over. 

“Too slow!” He leaped off and grabbed her tail, 
pummeling it with his hind paws. She pulled it free, grabbed 
him, and pushed him onto his back. Purring loudly, she 
pressed her nose into his belly, and he squealed with 
delight. They could train tomorrow. 


“Over here!” Leopardfur itched with impatience as 
Whitepaw sniffed among the weeds at the edge of the water. 
“Watch!” 

For the third time that morning, she nodded toward the 
swirling pool in the middle of the river, where green algae 
gathered and spun. “Fish might be hiding there because it’s 
shady.” She waded in, moving slowly so she barely made a 
ripple. The cool water swirled around her legs and tugged 
her belly fur. Her hope that indulging Whitepaw in play- 
fighting yesterday would help him focus today had faded 
almost the moment they’d left camp and Whitepaw’s 
attention had flashed to every fly, bird, or trembling reed. It 
seemed as though he found anything that moved more 
interesting than learning to be a warrior. 

He paused and looked at her, but his unfocused gaze 
told her that his thoughts were still flitting about. He could 
barely sit still, his fur twitching along his flanks. 

“What did I just tell you?” she mewed. 

“Fish like shade.” Whitepaw’s gaze drifted downstream 
with the current. 

“Let’s swim toward the algae patch and see if there’s 
anything hiding underneath.” She nodded for him to go first, 
but swallowed back irritation as Whitepaw splashed into the 
water. “Move your paws slowly!” she snapped. “If you 
wade into the river like that, you’ll frighten the fish.” 

Whitepaw scowled at her. “Sorry! I forgot,” he snapped 


back, not sounding sorry at all. 

“How could you forget?” she demanded. “It’s the first 
thing I taught you!” 

“That was ages ago!” Whitepaw stopped beside her and 
stared sulkily at the patch of algae spinning slowly in 
midstream. 

Leopardfur took a deep breath before trying again. 
“We're going to swim underwater,” she told him. “Slowly, so 
that if there are fish there, they’ll think we’re just another 
fish.” She ducked under the water and pushed off from the 
river bottom, slipping out into the current. She glanced back 
through the water to make sure Whitepaw was following. 

Bubbles churned behind her. The water frothed. What in 
StarClan was he doing? She burst up out of the water and 
glared at him. He was holding a minnow between his teeth. 
The ripples he’d made were still spreading across the stream. 
They reached the algae patch, broke it open, and let the 
current tear it apart. Any fish hiding in its shade would be 
gone now. 

She swam back to him. “You were supposed to follow 
me,” she snapped, finding her paws and wading toward him. 

He tossed his minnow onto the shore. “I caught a fish.” 

“That’s not big enough to feed a kit, let alone a Clan!” 
At this rate, Whitepaw would still be an apprentice when 
Emberkit and Mosskit were getting their warrior names. How 
would that make her look? And what would Sunfish think if 


she was watching from StarClan? Leopardfur had promised 
to help Whitepaw grow into a great warrior. But now 
Whitepaw just stared at her blankly. “Don’t you care about 
helping to feed your Clan?” she snapped. 

“Yes,” he mewed quickly. 

“Tt doesn’t seem like you even want to become a 
warrior!” 

“Of course I do.” But there was no enthusiasm in his 
mew. 

Leopardfur’s paws pulsed with frustration. “Go and wait 
on the shore, and stay out of my way while I catch a fish!” 
she snapped. “If you won’t let me teach you, then at least let 
me catch prey for your Clanmates.” Angrily, she turned back 
to the river and dived in. Pushing through the water, she 
spied bubbles breaking the surface near the reeds on the far 
side. She headed for them and ducked beneath the surface. 
A large trout was basking between the stems. She swam a 
little upstream so that she could come at it with the sun 
glittering through the water behind her. It didn’t see her until 
it was too late, and she grabbed it between her jaws and 
dragged it flapping from the river. 

Whitepaw hadn’t moved. He avoided her gaze, his tail 
down as she dropped the fish beside him and gave it a 
killing bite. 

“At least the morning wasn’t entirely wasted,” she 
grunted. 


He stared at his paws. 

Perhaps hell start listening to me now. “Come on,” she 
mewed sharply. “Let’s take this back to the camp. Then we 
can go to the water meadow and Pll teach you how to hunt 
frogs.” 

He didn’t speak, but followed her miserably as she 
carried the fish toward the camp. 

“Pmsorry.” His voice was choked with sadness. 

She stopped and glanced back at him. 

His eyes were round and dark. “I know you’re mad. Are 
you going to stop being my mentor?” There was a tremble in 
his mew. 

She stared at him. Why would he think that? A mentor 
never gave up on an apprentice, and he was her best friend’s 
kit. She’d never give up on him. She laid the fish on the 
ground, guilt chuming in her belly. She’d been too harsh 
with him. “Of course I won’t give up on you.” Leopardfur 
knew what it was like to grow up without a mother. She 
padded toward him and looked him in the eyes. “PI be your 
mentor until you don’t need me anymore,” she told him 
gently. “Pmnot going anywhere.” 

Whitepaw’s amber eyes glistened with emotion. “I keep 
dreaming I wake up and find my den empty, and then I come 
looking for you and the warriors’ den is empty too.” He 
swallowed. “You’re gone, and Beetlenose and Vixenleap and 
Grass whisker. You’re all gone.” 


“That’s not going to happen.” Leopardfur touched her 
nose to his head. Scolding him had made him pay attention 
for a moment, but it had also made him feel wretched when 
he was clearly still grieving deeply for Sunfish. And he’d 
lost Whitefang too. How could she have been so hard on 
him? “I promised your mother Id look out for you,” she told 
him. “And that's what I’m going to do. Even when you get 
your warrior name, I'll still keep looking out for you.” She 
breathed in his warmth. He seemed more like a kit than an 
apprentice. “I promise.” 

He pulled away and looked at her, as though wondering 
whether he could trust her, then dipped his head. “Okay.” 
Padding past her, he headed into the camp. 

She picked up the trout and hurried after him, dropping it 
at his paws. “Take this and share it with Vixenleap and 
Silverstream.” The two she-cats were stretching in the 
sunshine outside the warriors’ den. Spending time with his 
kin might reassure him. “When you’ve eaten we’ll go the 
water meadow.” 

He looked at her gratefully and picked the fish up, then 
headed away. Leopardfur was pleased to see Vixenleap and 
Silvers tream lift their muzzles happily to greet him. The poor 
thing was still missing his mother so badly .. . he needed all 
the support from his kin that he could get. 

Free for a while, Leopardfur scanned the clearing. 

Rippleclaw was sitting in the shade of the sedge, with 


Stonefur, Ottersplash, and Piketooth gathered around him. 

“ThunderClan killed two of our Clanmates,” she heard 
Rippleclaw growl as he shot a look at the shady patch 
outside Crookedstar’s den, where the RiverClan leader was 
talking with Oakheart. The two warriors looked grim. “We 
should have retaliated by now.” 

Stonefur followed Rippleclaw’s gaze. “They didn’t watch 
them die,” he muttered. 

Leopardfur shivered. But I did. She could still picture 
Whitefang’s blood spreading across the sun-bleached stone 
of Sunningrocks. Surely that kind of cruelty deserved some 
punishment? 

Ottersplash shifted her paws nervously. “I’m sure 
Crookedstar won’t just let this go,” she mewed. “He’s being 
cautious. He’ll act when the time is right.” 

“The time is right now,” Stonefur growled. 

“Tt was right the moment we carried Whitefang’s body 
back to the camp,” Rippleclaw grunted. “ThunderClan killed 
a RiverClan warrior on RiverClan territory.” 

“StarClan gave us those rocks.” Piketooth spoke bitterly, 
his tail whipping the dusty earth behind him. “When will 
ThunderClan accept that they have no claim to them?” 

“We need to make it clear to them,” Rippleclaw mewed. 
“And the sooner the better.” 

Leopardfur’s heart was pounding. The warriors were 
right, and not only because her heart still ached at the loss 


of Whitefang. They were right because with every day that 
passed without ThunderClan paying for what they’d done, 
RiverClan looked weaker. She tensed as Crookedstar looked 
up, his gaze flitting to Rippleclaw and the others. He 
watched them thoughtfully for a moment before turning back 
to Oakheart. Had he overheard them? Was he finally going 
to send a battle patrol to confront ThunderClan? She wanted 
to go and tell him in no uncertain terms what her Clanmates 
thought he should do—what she thought he should do. 
After all, Mudfur had told her that RiverClan’s destiny was 
entwined with her own. If Crookedstar and Oakheart were 
discussing ThunderClan’s crimes, it was the sort of 
discussion she should be part of. 

Paw steps brushed the ground behind her. As if she’d 
summoned him with her thoughts, Leopardfur smelled her 
father’s scent. She turned as he reached her, a leaf wrap 
between his jaws, pungent with herbs. 

Mudfur laid it down. “Shouldn’t you be training 
Whitepaw instead of listening to Clan gossip?” 

His sharp gaze made her suck in her breath. Was he 
reprimanding her? But she forced herself not to bristle. She 
wasn’t a kit anymore. She didn’t need him to tell her what 
she was supposed to be doing. Besides, had he forgotten 
that he’d told her she was special? Their Clan was seething, 
and she might be the one who could put it right. She met his 
gaze. “Whitepaw’s sharing a meal with his kin,” she mewed 


stiffly. 

“He can eat later” Mudfur glanced toward the young 
tom, who was chewing happily on the trout’s tail while 
Grass whisker washed his ears. “Once he’s earned it.” 

Earned it? Leopardfur twitched an ear uncomfortably. 
Did Mudfur know that he was behind in his training? 

“Tm taking him to the water meadow to hunt frogs once 
he’s finished,” she told Mudfur, annoyed at feeling she 
needed to justify herself. She was trying to train Whitepaw 
the best she could, but she didn’t know how to get him to 
focus. Indulging him hadn’t helped, nor had speaking 
sharply to him. But she wasn’t going to admit that by asking 
her father’s advice. Instead she headed toward Whitepaw, 
noticing for the first time that Frogleap was resting in the 
pool of shade at the edge of the clearing. He was watching 
her, and she prickled self-consciously and avoided his gaze. 
Had he heard Mudfur’s rebuke? 

“Come on, Whitepaw.” She stopped at the edge of the 
clearing. “You’ve had long enough to eat.” She was relieved 
when he got to his paws and padded to meet her. At least he 
obeyed her in front of their Clanmates. “Let’s head for the 
meadow.” 

They crossed the river and headed past the bulrushes 
without speaking. As they reached the meadow, Whitepaw 
sighed. 

She glanced at him. “What's wrong?” Her patience was 


wearing thin again, but she tried to remember to be kind. 

“Do we have to hunt frogs?” he mewed. “They taste 
weird.” 

Leopardfur looked away, struggling to hide her irritation. 
“You’re hunting for your Clan, not yourself. Birdsong enjoys 
frogs,” she reminded him. 

He scuffed the grass with his paws sullenly as he 
followed her across the meadow to a wide dip where water 
pooled. 

She stopped at the edge. “Okay. What can you smell?” 

“Grass,” he mewed. 

“And?” 

“Water?” 

“What sort of water?” Couldn’t he pick up its stagnant 
scent, which meant frogs might be nearby? 

He looked at her. “I don’t know. Wet water?” 

Irritation pricked in her paws. She opened her mouth, 
ready to scold him, when gray fur caught her eye. 

Frogleap was heading toward them, his tail swishing 
easily behind him, his fur smooth. Had he followed them? He 
blinked kindly at Whitepaw. “Excuse me, I couldn’t help 
overhearing. Whitepaw, I think Leopardfur wants you to 
learn the difference between running water and still water,” 
he mewed. 

“Um, okay. Why?” Whitepaw sniffed. 

“Because river birds prefer running water, and frogs 


prefer still water,” Frogleap explained. “If you can smell the 
difference, you can tell what prey to look for.” 

“But you can see if it’s still or running.” Whitepaw stuck 
his tail out. “Why do I need to smell it?” 

“A great RiverClan warrior can tell which is which with 
their eyes closed,” Frogleap mewed back, tilting his head 
thoughtfully. “But if you’re fine being ordinary ...” 

Whitepaw opened his mouth to speak, but Frogleap’s 
gaze had flitted toward the water. 

“Look!” There was such excitement in the gray tom’s 
mew that Whitepaw followed it. A frog had surfaced on the 
far side. It hopped onto the grass. Frogleap dropped into a 
hunting crouch. “It’s my namesake. Should we catch it?” he 
asked Whitepaw. “Or let it go?” 

“Catch it!” Whitepaw mewed eagerly. 

“Come on, then.” Frogleap began to creep around the 
edge. 

Whitepaw copied him, and even though she was grateful 
for the help, Leopardfur felt a prickle of annoyance. Why 
hadn’t Whitepaw obeyed her like that? She stayed where 
she was and watched, keeping still so that she didn’t startle 
the frog. Another leaped out beside it, and the two frogs sat, 
blinking, unaware of the toms creeping slowly toward them. 
Frogleap stopped and, as Whitepaw slid ahead, touched his 
nose to the young tom’s tail to adjust it. She saw Frogleap 
whisper something, and Whitepaw crouched lower, his belly 


fur skimming the grass. Frogleap was watching him intently 
and spoke again. Whitepaw flattened his ears, and, despite 
her irritation, Leopardfur found herself rooting for her 
apprentice as he crept closer to the frogs. Her breath caught 
as Whitepaw leaped, and a thrill of triumph surged in her 
chest as he landed squarely on one and pinned it to the 
ground. 

Kill it quickly! 

She held her breath as Whitepaw bent to give it the 
killing bite, but the frog bucked and twisted free ofhis grip. 

As her heart sank, Frogleap leaped to block the frog’s 
escape, giving Whitepaw the chance to grab it again, this 
time with his teeth, and deliver the killing bite. 

Leopardfur was relieved that the frog had been caught— 
Birdsong really would be pleased—but she didn’t know 
whether to feel proud of or irritated with her apprentice. 
Whitepaw seemed to have learned more in a few moments 
with Frogleap than he’d learned in days with her. Maybe I’m 
not cut out to be a mentor? Worry sparked in her chest as 
Whitepaw carried the frog back and dropped it at her paws. 

“Well done.” She forced a purr. 

Frogleap stopped beside her. “He’s a natural,” he 
mewed, then nodded toward another stretch of water a little 
farther along the meadow. “Try catching another frog by 
yourself” he told Whitepaw. 

As Whitepaw headed away, he called after him. “Don’t 


forget! Keep low. Even when you’re not stalking. This is 
open land. You stand out like a duck on a lake here.” 

Once Whitepaw was out of earshot, Leopardfur glared at 
Frogleap. Irritation was twitching through her fur. “Well, that 
was impressive. But why does he listen to you and not me?” 

Frogleap blinked at her sympathetically. “You were his 
friend before you were his mentor” he mewed. 
“Relationships are hard to change once they’re fixed.” 

“Are you saying he should have a different mentor?” 
she snapped. 

“Of course not.” Frogleap’s eyes rounded. “You’re the 
best mentor he could have,” he mewed. “But he’s been 
through a lot, and perhaps he’s afraid that being a good 
apprentice would mean losing your friendship.” 

“Can’t I be his mentor and his friend?” 

“Tm sure you can do anything you set your mind to,” 
Frogleap told her. “But Whitepaw needs careful handling 
right now. Perhaps he’s afraid of losing this time with you 
once he begins to improve and then becomes a warrior. After 
all, you’re the closest thing he has to a mother now.” 

Leopardfur looked away. She didn’t like being lectured. 
And yet there was truth in Frogleap’s words. With a pang, 
she remembered Sunfish’s last request. / want you to watch 
over him as I would. 

“Be gentle with him,” Frogleap went on. “Take his lead 
and guide him with love.” He headed after Whitepaw, 


signaling for Leopardfur to follow. “Be patient with him, like 
Sunfish would.” 

Whitepaw was crouching beside a smaller pool. But he 
clearly wasn’t looking for frogs. His gaze had drifted toward 
the hedgerow at the edge of the meadow, where sparrows 
were flitting from branch to branch. 

Take his lead, Leopardfur thought. She nodded toward 
the hedge. “Do you think you can catch one of those?” she 
asked Whitepaw. 

He looked thoughtful for a moment. “I think so.” He 
straightened, and Leopardfur followed as he began to head 
toward them. 

“Keep low,” Frogleap reminded him, and Whitepaw 
dropped into a stalking crouch. 

“Let your tail skim the grass,” Leopardfur added. 
Whitepaw dropped his tail. “Use the shadows.” She kept her 
mew soft, as though she were encouraging a kit rather than 
training a ’paw. “That's good,” she murmured as he ducked 
down beside the hedge. 

The birds were fluttering in and out, making the leaves 
quiver. Whitepaw squeezed beneath the branches to get 
closer. 

“Keep your weight in your haunches, not your paws,” 
Leopardfur whispered. “It’ll make your steps lighter.” 

Whitepaw adjusted his stance as he crept forward, 
hardly making a sound on the grass. 


“Don’t forget to keep your tail still,’ Leopardfur mewed. 

He obeyed. 

“And your ears flat,” she mewed. “Like you did with the 
frogs.” 

He flattened them. 

For the first time in days, Whitepaw’s attention was 
completely fixed on his quarry. And he was listening to her. 
Hope rose in Leopardfur’s heart. Maybe Frogleap was right, 
and all she needed to do was to be as gentle and persistent 
as Sunfish had been when she’d encouraged Whitekit from 
the nursery. 

She hung back and let Whitepaw make the final 
approach, watching him eagerly. 

Fur brushed her flank as Frogleap stopped beside her. 
“You ‘re a natural too,” he whispered. 

Leopardfur glanced at him, swallowing back a purr. 

Whitepaw’s gaze hadn’t left the sparrows for a moment, 
and now, as he reached pouncing distance, it fixed on the 
closest bird. 

“You can do it,” she breathed gently, her heart in her 
throat as he made a sudden leap, opening his mouth and 
catching the bird’s leg in his jaws. As he hit the ground, he 
shook his head violently and then dropped the bird to his 
paws, taking advantage of the bird’s confusion to deliver a 
killing bite to its throat. 

Leopardfur’s paws fizzed with happiness. He was 


learning. He was really learning, and she was teaching him, 
just as Whitefang had taught her. 
Finally, she was keeping her promise to Sunfish. 


Leopardfur watched Whitepaw as he lunged for the 
pinecone she’d laid out for him. In the past half-moon, he’d 
grown so much: He looked more like a warrior than an 
apprentice. Muscle showed below his dark brown pelt, 
rippling as he hooked the pinecone into the air with a snowy 
forepaw, leaped, twisted in midair, and batted it expertly 
down to the ground with the other. It was a hunting move 
she’d taken nearly a moon to master, but he had learned in 
half the time. She was proud of him. 

As he stalked silently toward the next one, shifting his 
weight, adjusting his tail, just as she’d taught him, she 
glanced eagerly toward the reed bed. Was Frogleap here 
yet? She’d asked him to test Whitepaw’s battle skills with a 
sneak attack. Would the young tom react fast enough? 
Frogleap was a strong and skillful warrior; Whitepaw 
wouldn’t be hurt, but she was a little worried the ambush 
might dent his confidence. Perhaps she should have chosen 
a different way to test him. 

The stalks shivered. She smelled Frogleap’s scent. He 
was close. Had Whitepaw picked up the telltale signals? Of 
course on RiverClan territory, rustling reeds and Frogleap’s 
scent wouldn’t be a sign of danger. Were she and Frogleap 
being unfair? No, she told herself; the ambush would teach 


him the importance of being alert even on familiar ground. 

Whitepaw’s attention was fixed on the cone. He was 
pressing his belly to the ground, his ears flattened against 
his head as he prepared to lunge for it. From the corner of 
her eye, Leopardfur saw Frogleap’s gray fur, barely more 
than a shadow among the reeds. But he was moving steadily 
nearer, and she held her breath, her pelt tingling as the reeds 
split and Frogleap burst through. 

He leaped for Whitepaw and the young tom froze, belly 
still to the earth. But only for a moment. Rearing, Whitepaw 
turned in a fierce, fluid movement and faced his attacker. 
Leopardfur saw his gaze flick toward her, as though 
confirming she was safe before he committed all his energy 
to defending himself. 

Frogleap’s eyes widened, as though he hadn’t expected 
such a fast reaction. He quickly adjusted his stance, bracing 
himself for Whitepaw’s blow as the young tomswung a paw 
at Frogleap’s muzzle. Frogleap dodged just in time and 
ducked beneath Whitepaw’s belly, pushing up until the 
apprentice’s hind paws lifted from the ground, then flicking 
him over onto his spine. 

Whitepaw landed with a thump, but scrabbled up in a 
heartbeat and rushed again at his attacker. Recognition 
flared in his eyes. He froze. “Frogleap!” He drew back, 
letting his paw drop, and frowned. “What are you doing?” 

Frogleap’s fur smoothed. His eyes sparkled with 


admiration. “We were testing how quickly you’d react to 
danger.” He dipped his head to the young tom “You 
defended yourself very well.” 

Leopardfur padded forward. “He even checked to see 
that I was okay,” she purred approvingly. “His Clanmates’ 
safety is clearly as important to him as his own.” She 
exchanged approving looks with Frogleap, proud that her 
apprentice had clearly impressed him. “I think he’s almost 
ready for his warrior assessment, don’t you?” 

“Definitely.” Frogleap blinked at her happily. 

Whitepaw’s fur was still spiked from the attack, but his 
eyes were glowing. “Really?” he mewed. “Do you think I’m 
ready?” 

“Yes.” Her heart swelled. She’d taught Whitepaw with 
kindness and encouragement, and in doing so, she’d kept 
her promise to Sunfish. “I’m sure you’ll pass, Whitepaw. 
You’ve come so far.” 

He stared at her, his eyes rounding. “I know I’ve been 
difficult. But you stuck with me. Thank you. I couldn’t have 
done it without you, I just wish .. .” He glanced toward the 
sky, his mew trailing away. 

Her throat tightened. She knew what he was wishing for, 
because she longed for it, too: that Sunfish could be here 
with them. Was his mother watching them from StarClan? 

“Pmso proud of you.” She leaned forward and touched 
her nose to his. “And I know Sunfish is, too.” 


As they headed back to camp, Leopardfur quickened her 
step. Frogleap and Whitepaw followed at her heels. She 
couldn’t wait to tell Crookedstar that Whitepaw was ready 
for his warrior assessment. She wondered if he’d give her a 
say in what his warrior name would be. It would be tempting 
to name him Whitefang, after his first mentor. But maybe he 
deserved a name all his own. 

She ducked through the reed tunnel and padded into the 
clearing, her pelt prickling with alarm as she saw Crookedstar 
standing in front of Mistyfoot, Beetlenose, and Loudbelly. 
Oakheart was pacing beside him, his dark red fur rippling 
along his spine. They looked agitated, their gazes dark. Had 
something happened? 

She hurried to join them and blinked questioningly at 
Crookedstar, but he didn’t seem to notice her and addressed 
the others instead. “If you see any ThunderClan cat 
anywhere near the border, warn them off, and if they don’t 
leave, attack.” 

Beetlenose frowned. “What if they don’t cross the scent 
line?” 

“Attack anyway.” Oakheart swung his gaze toward the 
broad-shouldered tom. “If they refuse to retreat when 
they’re told, it’s a declaration of war,” he growled. “This time 
we leave no doubt about who owns Sunningrocks.” 

Leopardfur pushed her way between Mistyfoot and 
Loudbelly. An attack on ThunderClan! A chance to avenge 


Whitefang and Sunfish’s deaths. “Can I join the patrol?” 

Oakheart looked at her. “The patrol has already been 
chosen.” 

“But I wasn’t here when you—” Leopardfur began. 

“The patrol has already been chosen,” Oakheart 
repeated firmly. 

“That's not fair.” Leopardfur ignored the glances of the 
other warriors. She didn’t care if they thought she was too 
outspoken. She’d been there when ThunderClan had killed 
her mentor and best friend. She had a right to be part of any 
patrol that was going to defend Sunningrocks. “I want to 
fight for my Clan. After last time, Ihave to—” 

Oakheart cut her off again. “You were too quick to fight 
last time.” 

“But this time you want us to fight!” Surely her 
eagerness to get even with ThunderClan made her the best 
warrior for this patrol? 

Oakheart’s tail twitched irritably. “You have an 
apprentice,” he told her. “This patrol is no place for ’paws.” 

“He can stay in camp.” Leopardfur turned her gaze on 
Crookedstar. Surely he would see she had to be part of the 
battle even if Oakheart didn’t! 

Crookedstar shifted his paws. “Oakheart is right. We 
need strong warriors to stay here in case ThunderClan 
attacks the camp.” 

No! Leopardfur’s heart pounded. She needed to be on 


” 





this patrol. ThunderClan had killed two of the cats she’d 
loved most. But Crookedstar was avoiding her gaze, and 
Oakheart stared past her as Beetlenose, Mistyfoot, and 
Loudbelly shifted uneasily. Oakheart and Crookedstar 
clearly weren’t going to be persuaded. She swallowed back 
her objections, her belly churning with frustration. 

“Frogleap.” Oakheart’s gaze flitted toward the gray tom 
as he hung back beside Whitepaw. “I want you on this 
patrol,” he mewed. “You trained with Loudbelly. You’ll fight 
well together.” 

He trained with me too! Leopardfur forced her pelt not 
to bristle. This was so unfair. Was she being punished for 
the last battle at Sunningrocks? She’d only been defending 
RiverClan territory. Wasn’t that what being a warrior meant? 
Fury throbbed beneath her pelt as Oakheart led Beetlenose, 
Mistyfoot, and Loudbelly out of camp. Frogleap shot her an 
apologetic look as he fell in behind them. 

Whitepaw bounded across the clearing to join her. “Do 
you really think ThunderClan might attack?” he mewed 
excitedly. “Can I help guard the camp?” He glanced at 
Emberkit and Mosskit, who were playing outside the nursery 
with Heavykit and Shadekit. “Should I tell them to stay 
inside until the danger’s passed?” 

Leopardfur shook her head. “We're not sure the patrol 
will even fight,” she told him. She hoped it wouldn’t. She 
wanted the chance to fight for her Clan and, this time, to win. 


She couldn't stand the thought of them fighting 
ThunderClan without her. “But let’s go out and check the 
camp wall and make sure there are no gaps.” She flexed her 
claws impatiently as she led Whitepaw through the reed 
tunnel. He might have stopped her this time, but Oakheart 
couldn’t keep her from fighting for her Clan forever. 





CHAPTER 6 
+ 


Checking the camp wall didnt take as long as Leopardfur 
had hoped. There were no gaps to fix, and although she’d 
kept her eyes peeled for ThunderClan intruders, she’d seen 
no sign ofa threat to the camp. Now what? It was harder to 
keep from thinking about what was happening with 
ThunderClan when there was nothing else that demanded 
her attention. But she had to keep Whitepaw busy, if 
nothing else. 

“Fetch fresh bedding for Birdsong and Tanglewhisker,” 
she told Whitepaw as they padded back into camp. “And 
help them make new nests.” 

“But that’s an apprentice chore,” he objected. “You said 
I was ready for my warrior name.” 

“You haven’t passed your assessment yet,’ she 
reminded him. 

He frowned. “But it’Il take ages to change out the 
bedding by myself.” 

“Ask Emberkit and Mosskit to help you.” 

“But they’re kits,” Whitepaw mewed. 

Leopardstar bit back an angry retort, reminding herself 
that Whitepaw was not responsible for her stretched nerves. 
“They'll be ’paws any day now. You can show them what 
it’s like to be an apprentice.” 


Whitepaw looked less aggrieved. Leopardfur figured 
that getting to boss kits around might take the sting out of 
the task. 

As he headed toward the nursery, Leopardfur called after 
him. “They can clean out the old bedding while you gather 
fresh,” she told him. “Don’t forget they’re still too young to 
leave camp.” 

“Sure!” Whitepaw trotted away. 

Now that her apprentice had been taken care of, 
Leopardfur let her thoughts stray back to Oakheart’s patrol. 
Had they found any sign of ThunderClan at Sunningrocks? 
Perhaps Oakheart planned to wait there until they showed 
up. Leopardfur listened for distant battle yowls, but all she 
heard was the river and the reeds swishing around the camp. 

Frustration was still worming beneath her pelt. The more 
she thought about it, the more she wondered why 
Crookedstar and Oakheart had been so insistent about 
keeping her off the battle patrol. She was a strong warrior, 
and trusted enough by Crookedstar to take over as mentor 
for the Clan’s only ’paw. Had Oakheart advised the 
RiverClan leader against letting her fight? He’d said she’d 
been too quick to start the battle last time, but this time he 
wanted the patrol to pick a fight with ThunderClan. Perhaps 
he just didn’t like her. 

She padded grouchily across the clearing. Mudfur might 
know. She’d been so busy training Whitepaw and hanging 


out with Frogleap for the past half-moon that she’d hardly 
spoken to her father. Besides, he was always in the medicine 
den these days, and she was a healthy warrior. There was 
rarely any need for her to go there. But now, angry and not 
knowing what to do to distract herself} she headed for the 
moss-draped entrance. 

“Mudfur?” She poked her head through. Sunshine was 
filtering through the woven walls, and the wide, dusty floor 
rippled with light. 

Leopardfur glanced at the empty nests around the edge 
and felt a pang in her heart. The last time she’d come here to 
visit a sick cat, it had been Sunfish. But that was moons ago 
—the nest in which Sunfish had died had been cleared away 
and replaced with fresh bedding, of course. Wondering if 
she’d ever stop mourning her friend, she pushed away her 
sadness and made her way inside. 

“Hi, Leopardfur.” Mudfur blinked from shadows at the 
back of the den, a bunch of rosemary stalks between his 
paws. “How’s Whitepaw’s training coming along?” 

“He’s ready for his assessment,’ she mewed 
distractedly, glancing around the den. She hadn’t come here 
to discuss Whitepaw. 

Mudfur’s eyes rounded with concern. “Are you okay?” 

Leopardfur turned to meet his eyes. “I’m fine. I’m just 
wondering what’s happening at Sunningrocks.” 

“Crookedstar’s sent a patrol there?” Mudfur laid the 


rosemary stems on the floor and reached into the gap 
hollowed in the mud wall. 

“Yeah.” Leopardfur sat down heavily. “He wants them to 
challenge ThunderClan.” 

Mudfur’s ears twitched as he pulled out a tightly 
wrapped leaf and began to unfold it. “Well. I suppose you're 
worried about missing the battle.” There was sharpness in 
his mew. 

Her pelt prickled irritably. He could never resist making 
her feel like there was something wrong with being a warrior. 
“I just don’t understand. I’m one of our strongest warriors. 
Oakheart should have let me go.” 

“Not every warrior can go on every patrol.” Mudfur 
reached in for more herbs. “Not even every strong warrior. If 
they did, there’d be no cat left to guard the camp.” 

“That’s what Crookedstar said.” 

“And? It’s true, isn’t it?” Mudfur pulled out a string of 
tattered stalks and began to unknot them. 

Leopardfur stifled a sigh. He doesnt understand. “But 
what if there’s a fight?” 

“You’re not the only RiverClan warrior with battle skills,” 
he mewed evenly. 

Leopardfur lashed her tail. “But, after what happened 
with Whitefang and Sunfish, I should be allowed—” 

He cut her off. “It’s true, you’ve lost a lot. But fighting 
isn’t the best way to grieve.” 





“Dve finished grieving,” she snapped. “Now I want to 
make ThunderClan sorry.” 

Mudfur put down the knotted herbs. “Part of grieving is 
learning to leave things like that up to StarClan,” he mewed. 

“You ‘re not even a warrior.” 

“No.” He gazed at her. “Pm not. But I was, and I know 
there’s more to being a warrior than fighting battles.” He 
went on before she could speak. “Claws and teeth aren't the 
only way to protect your Clan.” He looked at her. “You’ve 
made the Clan stronger by training Whitepaw. And there’s 
hunting, fishing, repairing the camp. Why do you need more 
than that?” 

She dropped her gaze. He’d made her feel ashamed 
again. “I know,” she conceded. “Feeding my Clan is as 
important as fighting for it, but fishing every day and 
training and mending dens .. .” She hesitated, guilt jabbing 
her belly. “It just feels so ordinary.” 

“We’re lucky to have ordinary. There’s nothing wrong 
with ordinary,” Mudfur told her. 

Then why did you tell me I was special? But Leopardfur 
kept the thought to herself. “I know, and I value peace as 
much as any other cat. I just thought I'd be able to do more 
to help my Clan.” 

“You mean fight.” 

He spoke like there was something wrong with 
defending her Clan. “The other Clans want to take our land,” 


she mewed. “Doesn’t that worry you?” 

“Not while we have strong, brave warriors like you to 
protect it.” He began unknotting the herbs once more. 

Anger warmed her pelt. She heard the sarcasm in his 
tone, the way he’d emphasized brave, like he was mocking 
her. He was determined not to understand. She turned her 
tail on him and nosed her way out of the den. She felt as 
sulky as a kit, which made his dismissal feel even worse. She 
wasn’t a kit. She was a warrior, she was right to be annoyed 
about being left behind, and nothing Mudfur could say 
would change that. 

She padded to a shady patch beside the sedge wall and 
settled onto the cool grass. 

“Leopardfur!” Skyheart called to her. The pale brown 
tabby she-cat was following Blackclaw toward the camp 
entrance. “We’re going fishing. Do you want to come?” 

“No.” Leopardfur wasn’t in the mood for swimming. She 
wanted to think. 

Skyheart looked surprised. “Blackclaw says he saw a 
really big fish basking near the reed bed this morning. We’re 
going to see if it’s still there.” 

Leopardfur flicked her tail in an attempt to look cheerful. 
“Have fun.” 

Skyheart looked at her for a moment, then hurried after 
Blackclaw and disappeared through the reed tunnel. 
Leopardfur let her tail fall flat and stared across the camp. 


Emberkit and Mosskit were already dragging old 
bedding from the elders’ den, their pelts fluffed out proudly 
as Heavykit and Shadekit watched jealously from the 
nursery. 

“Why can’t we help?” Heavykit complained. 

“You’re too young.” Lilystem wrapped her tail around 
him. “You won’t be an apprentice for moons.” 

“Its not fair” Shadekit moved out of reach of her 
mother’s tail and glowered at Mosskit. 

The tortoiseshell-and-white she-kit was shooing 
Birdsong away. “You don’t have to help,” she told her as 
Emberkit darted back inside and dragged out another bunch 
of crumpled reeds. 

Dawnbright was washing outside the warriors’ den. 
Mallowtail and Wleclaw idly batted a moss ball back and 
forth between them. Crookedstar was sitting at the edge of 
the clearing, his ears swiveled as though he too was 
listening for battle sounds. 

Leopardfur’s thoughts quickened. What was happening 
at Sunningrocks? Would ThunderClan kill another of her 
Clanmates? She pictured Whitefang lying on the stone 
again, his eyes dull, and remembered the sour tang of 
Sunfish’s infected wound and the long, agonizing days of 
watching her friend die. 

She looked toward Sunningrocks. It was hidden by trees. 
But she could see it in her mind’s eye. She could imagine 


Frogleap standing beside Oakheart. Her paws prickled 
anxiously. What if he was hurt? Her breath quickened. What 
if he died? She’d spent nearly every day with him this past 
half-moon. It wasn’t just that he’d helped with Whitepaw’s 
training. He’d seemed, she realized now, to have made any 
excuse to hunt and patrol with her until she couldn’t imagine 
leaving camp without him at her side. And now she missed 
him. She glanced around the camp, suddenly self-conscious, 
as though her Clanmates could read her thoughts. Was it 
possible that she had feelings for Frogleap? That he’d 
become more than just a denmate? She pushed the thought 
away. She wasn’t looking for a mate. Kits would slow her 
down. The thought of being trapped in the nursery made her 
paws itch. But perhaps she wouldn’t always feel this way. 
One day, she might be ready to take a mate. If she did, could 
that mate be Frogleap? 

A screech of pain ripped the air. Panic sparked like fire in 
her chest. It was close by. As Dawnbright and Mallowtail sat 
up sharply, Leopardfur leaped to her paws. Birdsong hurried 
protectively toward Emberkit and Mosskit as they stared 
toward the sound with wide, frightened eyes. 

It was coming from the river. 

Whitepaw! Leopardfur raced across the clearing. He’d 
left camp to gather reeds. Had he been attacked? Had 
ThunderClan sent a battle patrol to the camp after all? As 
she neared the entrance tunnel, Whitepaw hurried through. 


He dropped the reeds bunched between his jaws and 
stared at her. “Did you hear that?” 

Relief swamped her. He was safe. 

But the shriek sounded again. This time, Leopardfur 
recognized it. “Skyheart!” Had something happened while 
she was fishing? Leopardfur raced for the reed bed and, 
shoving her way through, splashed through the shallows 
until she broke out the other side, where the river swirled at 
her paws. 

The shrieking was continuous now, panicked and 
interspersed with the pained cries of another cat. 
Blackclaw? She looked downstream, her heart pounding. 
Skyheart was standing on the bank, her claws hooked into 
Blackclaw’s smoky pelt as she tried to heave him out of the 
water. He 5 injured! 

Not hesitating for a moment, Leopardfur dived in and 
swam toward them. Her heart pounded in her chest as she 
wondered what she was swimming toward. Had something 
attacked them while they were fishing? Js it still there? 

Skyheart was tugging at Blackclaw’s scruff now, but she 
couldn’t seemto get him free of the river’s pull. “Be careful!” 
she screeched when she spotted Leopardfur in the river. 
“There’s a pike!” 

A pike! Leopardfur’s heart lurched. Pikes rarely came 
this far upriver. She wasn’t sure she’d ever seen one, but 
she’d heard horrible stories from the elders. Panic fizzed 


beneath her pelt as she scrambled onto the bank where 
Blackclaw was clawing at the stones. He was fighting to stay 
on the shore, but his hind leg was being dragged into the 
water. The river churned around it, red with blood, and 
Leopardfur saw, with a gasp, the spined back of a huge fish 
thrashing beside it. The pike was holding Blackclaw’s paw 
between its massive jaws and fighting to drag him into the 
water. Skyheart swiped at its nose, but the pike jerked harder. 
His eyes wild with panic, Blackclaw dug his paws deeper 
into the pebbles and tried to get a grip with his claws. 

“Hold on to him!” Leopardfur told Skyheart. “Pll get the 
pike off.” 

As Skyheart held Blackclaw tight, Leopardfur turned on 
the pike. It was as big as a warrior. Its tail churned the water, 
and she could see its eyes, dark and fierce, as it tore at 
Blackclaw’s leg, its teeth hooked into his flesh. Leopardfur 
slashed at its nose, but it held on, pulling harder, hunger 
gleaming in its eyes. It was terrifying, but she gathered all 
her courage, plunged into the water beside it, and gripped its 
long back with her claws. Its spines jabbed her pads, and 
she let go with a yelp. Its tail thumped against her, knocking 
the breath from her lungs, and she gasped for air as she 
fought again to get close enough to grab hold. 

She spluttered as water caught in her throat and filled 
her nose. Fora moment the memory of Skyheart pressing her 
under filled her with panic, but the pike slapped her again 


with its tail and knocked the memory away. Her eyes 
narrowed as she squinted through the water. She had to get 
this fish off Blackclaw. 

The shoreline grew blurred as more water streamed into 
her eyes. Was that another cat beside Skyheart? She saw a 
familiar brown pelt. Whitepaw? The cat plunged into the 
river on the other side of the pike. It is! She recognized his 
snowy paws. He lunged for the pike, and it struck out at him 
with its tail. Leopardfur saw her chance. She hooked her 
claws into its side and curled them tight. The pike writhed in 
her grip, its tail thrashing between them. Whitepaw slitted 
his eyes against the spray and hurled himself at it. With a 
grunt, he wrapped his legs around it and hung on. 

The pike panicked. Eyes flashing, it glanced at 
Whitepaw. No! Leopardfur tore harder at its rubbery flesh, 
and, with a jerk, it released Blackclaw and tumed on the 
apprentice. 

“Let go!” Leopardfur wailed at him, alarm shrilling 
through her fur. “Get to the shore.” 

The pike writhed in her grip as it snapped at Whitepaw. 
She unhooked a claw and slashed at its cheek, drawing its 
rage back toward her. Clinging on, she held it as best she 
could as Whitepaw made for the shore. Its jaws couldn’t 
reach her. She was holding it too tightly. But how could she 
let go without it turning on her and dragging her under? Out 
of reach of the others, she’d be lost. 


She pushed back terror and swung another blow at its 
cheek. It bucked and twisted in her grip. Holding on, she 
kicked out with her back legs, fighting for the shore. If she 
could get close enough, she might be able to scramble out 
before it grabbed her. 

It turned over suddenly, spinning her underwater. As the 
river swallowed her, she saw in its shadowy depths 
something moving below. Her eyes widened as her fur 
billowed around her. An even bigger fish was rising up 
through the water. Terror engulfed her as a new pair of eyes 
fixed on her, even larger and more vicious. It was another 
pike, twice the size of the first—so big it could swallow her 
in one gulp. Her breath caught. She froze as it swam closer, 
its jaws opening toward her. 

Claws hooked her pelt. She felt them haul her away as 
the massive pike’s mouth opened a muzzle-length away and 
slammed shut around the smaller pike. Surprise, rather than 
fear, showed in the smaller pike’s glassy eyes as its body 
was torn in two. 

Leopardfur closed her eyes, limp with horror as 
Whitepaw dragged her from the water. 

“Leopardfur!” Skyheart leaned over her as she collapsed 
on the shore. 

Whitepaw thumped his paws into her chest. She 
twitched and coughed up water, then fell limp again, fighting 
for breath. 


“Are you okay?” He searched her gaze, panic clouding 
his. 

She nodded, her head clearing as she forced herself up 
and glanced back over her shoulder. The huge pike dropped 
beneath the surface, dragging both pieces of the dead fish 
with it. The river closed over it and flowed past as though 
nothing had happened. 

On the shore beside her, Blackclaw groaned. He 
struggled to his paws but immediately swayed. His hind leg 
hung like dead prey. 

Leopardfur heaved herself up and shook out her pelt, 
pushing away shock. “We need to get himto Mudfur.” 

Skyheart nodded and placed her shoulder beneath 
Blackclaw's. Whitepaw ducked under the other side, and 
together they helped him limp toward the camp entrance. 

Leopardfur pushed past them. “Mudfur!” She called to 
her father as she reached the clearing. “Blackclaw's been 
attacked by a pike.” 

Crookedstar leaped to his paws. Dawnbright and 
Mallowtail watched, their eyes wide as Mudfur raced toward 
her. 

He darted around Blackclaw, one side, then the other, 
inspecting the wounded leg as Skyheart and Whitepaw 
guided the injured tom toward the medicine den. 

While they helped Blackclaw inside, Leopardfur waited 
at the entrance. She didn’t want to crowd her father while he 


worked. Besides, Crookedstar would want a report. 

The RiverClan leader was already hurrying toward her. 
“What happened?” 

The smell of Blackclaw’s blood was still in the air. 

“Blackclaw was attacked by a pike.” As she spoke, 
Whitepaw ducked out of the medicine den. She blinked at 
him anxiously. “Are you okay?” 

He nodded, though his eyes were still bright with shock. 
“Tve never seen a pike before.” he mewed. “I didn’t know 
they were so big.” 

Crookedstar frowned. “It’s rare they come this far 
upstream in greenleaf,” he mewed. “The river is too shallow 
for them.” 

“There were two of them.” Whitepaw’s pelt was prickling 
along his spine. 

“The big one probably followed the other one here,” 
Leopardfur guessed. 

Crookedstar nodded. “It must have been tracking it for a 
while.” 

Skyheart padded from the den. She was trembling. 

Crookedstar’s tail twitched. “How is he?” 

“Mudfur says a few of the bitemarks are deep, but 
they’re clean and they’ll heal fully,” Skyheart told him. 

“He’ll be able to use his leg again?” Crookedstar 
pressed. 

“Yes.” Relief showed on Skyheart’s face. She turned to 


Leopardfur. “You saved him,” she mewed. “I don’t know 
how you dared dive in! When that second pike appeared, I 
thought you’d be killed for sure.” 

Leopardfur felt a small surge of pride. As the shock wore 
off, she could see the bravery in what she had done. The 
pike had been almost as big as her, with jaws far bigger than 
any cat’s. She’d been scared, but she hadn’t let fear stop 
her. She’d only wanted to save Blackclaw. 

“Whitepaw was brave too.” Leopardfur blinked at 
Crookedstar. He should know about her apprentice’s 
courage. “He dived in to help me and grabbed the pike’s tail. 
It gave me a chance to get close enough to attack properly 
and make it let go of Blackclaw.” 

Crookedstar’s eyes glowed. “You were both very brave.” 
He turned toward the warriors’ den, where Ottersplash and 
Shimmerpelt had joined Dawnbright and Mallowtail and were 
staring anxiously across the clearing. “I'll warn the Clan not 
to fish in that stretch of river for a while,” he mewed. “We 
can fish further upstream, where it’s too narrow for pike.” 

As he headed away, Leopardfur began to shiver. Despite 
the warmth of the day, she felt suddenly cold. She glanced at 
Whitepaw. “Are you sure you’re okay?” 

But Whitepaw didn’t seem to hear her. He was staring at 
the camp entrance. She followed his gaze, her ears pricking 
when she heard paw steps outside. They were slow and 
uneven, like the cats that made them were struggling. She 


tasted the air. Frogleap’s scent touched her tongue and, 
along with it, the smell of blood. Her belly tightened as the 
reed tunnel quivered and Beetlenose limped into camp. 
Blood was welling on his cheek. 

Leopardfur began to cross the clearing, but Whitepaw 
raced past her, scrambling to a halt beside his father. 

“What happened?” he asked. 

Beetlenose glanced behind him, grief sharpening his 
gaze as Mistyfoot and Loudbelly staggered into camp. 
Across their shoulders lay Oakheart, limp and unmoving. 
They padded to the edge of the clearing and let the 
RiverClan deputy slide onto the ground. 

Crookedstar raced toward him. “Oakheart?” The 
RiverClan leader’s mew trembled as he crouched down 
beside his brother and pressed his ear to his flank. “He’s not 
breathing!” He jerked his muzzle toward the medicine den, 
but Mudfur was already running. 

“There was a battle,’ Mistyfoot mewed huskily. 
“ThunderClan killed him.” 

Leopardfur felt sick. Another Clanmate lost to 
ThunderClan? She stared at the dead deputy, her mouth 
growing dry. 

Mudfur was leaning close to Oakheart’s muzzle. He drew 
away, Shaking his head. “He’s gone,” he mewed. He looked 
at Mistyfoot and Loudbelly. Blood matted their pelts. “Fetch 
cobwebs from my den,” he ordered Leopard fur. 


But Leopardfur hardly heard him. She was staring at the 
camp entrance. Frogleap? Where was he? She got to her 
paws and started toward it, her heart beating so loudly she 
could hear nothing else. 

She froze for a moment as he padded through, relief 
swamping her, then rushed to meet him. She pressed her 
muzzle against his cheek. “I thought you were dead.” 

“Pm fine.” Frogleap drew away, his eyes hollow with 
grief as he looked at Oakheart, lying lifeless in the clearing. 

Mallowtail was hurrying from the medicine den, cobwebs 
between her jaws. She dropped them beside Mudfur. “That’s 
all I could find,” she mewed. “PI gather more from the 
sedge.” 

“Pll help.” Dawnbright hurried away with her. 

“Leopardfur” Mudfur called her name and she spun 
around. “Help me get Loudbelly to the medicine den.” 

Whitepaw was already helping Beetlenose across the 
clearing as Mistyfoot limped after them. Loudbelly was 
swaying on his paws, and Leopardfur thrust her shoulder 
beneath his to steady him. Crookedstar didn’t move from 
Oakheart’s side, but crouched beside him, his emerald eyes 
shimmering with grief. 

“Pll need your help,” Mudfur told Leopardfur as he 
pressed in on Loudbelly’s other side. “There are a lot of 
injuries to deal with.” 

“But Pm not a medicine cat.” Leopardfur guided 


Loudbelly forward. 

“You don’t have to be a medicine cat to rub poultices 
into wounds,” Mudfur mewed. “And the sooner we get 
these injuries treated, the less chance there is they’ll turn 
sour.” 

Frogleap padded after them, his steps faltering. 

Leopardfur glanced back at him. “Can you make it to the 
medicine den?” 

“Yes,” he grunted, his eyes dark with pain. 

Mudfur was still looking at Leopardfur. “Surely now you 
can see now how pointless it is to fight over 
Sunningrocks?” 

“Pointless?” She could hardly believe her ears. Was 
Mudfur saying their Clanmates’ suffering meant nothing? 

Mudfur’s eyes flashed angrily. “There's no glory in 
this!” 

Leopardfur glared back at him. How could he say such a 
thing? The RiverClan deputy was lying dead in the clearing. 
Loudbelly couldn’t walk without help. This might not be 
glorious, but that didn’t mean Sunningrocks wasn’t worth 
fighting for. If anything, it meant they should fight harder. 

RiverClan had sacrificed three lives. If they gave up now, 
their Clanmates would have died for nothing. Even Mudfur 
must realize that if they let these deaths go unpunished, no 
RiverClan cat could call themselves a true warrior! 





CHAPTER 7 
¥ 


Through the long warm night, while Leopardfur sat vigil for 
Oakheart, one thought lingered. As the night wore on, it 
hardened her grief into anger. Would the RiverClan deputy 
be lying dead in the RiverClan clearing if she’d been allowed 
to join the patrol? Perhaps she could have changed the 
course of the battle. She might have saved him. They could 
have kept Sunningrocks. 

Whitepaw and Frogleap crouched beside her, their gazes 
dull. No cat spoke as the night dragged on. Frogs croaked 
from the shadowy reed bed, and a warbler sang its long sad 
song, as though grieving along with the RiverClan cats who 
sat in the darkness around their dead Clanmate. As dawn 
began to show, turning the sky pale beyond the trees, 
Crookedstar got to his paws and signaled to Rippleclaw, 
Cedarpelt, and Wleclaw. Together they carried Oakheart's 
body out of camp, to the stretch of soft earth on the far side 
of the river where they had buried Hailstar, Whitefang, and 
Sunfish. 

Leopardfur must have dozed for a little while. When she 
woke, Whitepaw was taking a carp from the fresh-kill pile to 
the elders’ den. Frogleap was still beside her, on his paws 
and stretching out his stiffness. 

She got up and shook out her pelt. Her anger had woken 


with her, still hard in her belly. “I should have been with 
them,” she mewed softly. 

Frogleap looked puzzled. “With the burial patrol?” 

“No,” she mewed. “At the battle. I might have stopped 
Oakheart from dying.” 

“And then who would have saved Blackclaw?” He 
looked toward the medicine den, where the injured warrior 
was resting, along with Loudbelly and Mistyfoot. 

Mudfur was heading inside. He’d sat vigil with the rest 
of them but kept close to the medicine den, slipping quietly 
away to check on his patients from time to time. 

Leopardfur watched his tail disappear through the 
trailing moss. He’d said that there’d been no glory in 
Oakheart’s death or in his Clanmates’ injuries. But, if she’d 
been there to help them, maybe it would have ended 
differently. “Whitepaw would have been here,” she told 
Frogleap. “It would have been fine.” 

Frogleap looked unconvinced. “Do you really think such 
a young cat could have saved Blackclaw by himself?” he 
mewed. “Would he have leaped into the river with that pike 
ifhe hadn’t seen you jump in first?” 

“Of course he would,” Leopardfur mewed, though as she 
said it, she wondered if it was true. She wanted to believe it 
was. “I trained him, remember! Besides, it wasn’t us who 
fought off the pike in the end. It was a bigger pike.” 

“You stopped Blackclaw from being dragged into the 


river,” Frogleap insisted. “If you hadn’t, he’d probably be 
dead by now.” She sniffed as he went on. “It’s a good thing 
Crookedstar asked you to guard the camp. You saved a life. 
There was nothing you could have done to change the 
battle. I was there, remember? ThunderClan was determined 
to take the rocks, no matter how hard we fought. And you 
might have been hurt too if you’d gone.” 

“Tt would have been worth it, to protect my Clan.” 
Frustration was still itching in Leopardfur’s pelt. 

“You did that by staying here,” Frogleap mewed. 

Around them, their Clanmates seemed unsettled. 
Beetlenose was shifting from paw to paw beside the 
warriors’ den. Softwing stood beside Dawnbright, her tail 
twitching, while Mallowtail glanced apprehensively toward 
the head of the clearing, as though she expected to see 
something there. Owlfur and Ottersplash talked softly, while 
their apprentices, Emberpaw and Mosspaw, sat nearby, 
glancing at each other anxiously. 

Frogleap glanced at them “I guess everyone’s 
wondering what to do without Oakheart to sort out the 
morning patrols.” 

“They should stay busy.” Leopardfur swished her tail. 
She padded toward Owlfur. “We should secure our other 
border,” she told him. “Will you take Reedtail and Piketooth 
and mark the scent line beside the moor?” 

Owlfur nodded. “We can hunt too,” he mewed. “The 


fresh-kill pile needs restocking.” 

Leopardfur glanced at it. He was right; there was only a 
chaffinch left. She called to Softwing. “Can you take a 
hunting patrol to the water meadow?” 

Softwing lifted her tail, as though relieved at the 
suggestion. “Sure.” 

Beetlenose padded forward. “Pll take out a fishing 
patrol,” he suggested. 

“Good idea,’ Leopardfur mewed. “The Clan will be 
hungry after the vigil.” Her own belly was beginning to 
grumble. She’d hadn’t eaten since yesterday morning. “But 
make sure you head far enough upstream to be clear of the 
pike.” 

Beetlenose dipped his head. He crossed the clearing, 
calling Vixenleap, Grasswhisker, and Petaldust to him 
Softwing gathered Shimmerpelt and Sedgecreek, along with 
Dawnbright and Mallowtail. Owlfur and Piketooth were 
already heading for the entrance, but they halted as the 
reeds shivered and Crookedstar led Rippleclaw, Cedarpelt, 
and Voleclaw back into camp. 

The leader’s shoulders were heavy, and he moved with a 
slowness that betrayed his grief. But his eyes brightened 
with curiosity as he saw patrols gathered in the clearing, 
preparing to leave camp. “What’s happening?” he asked. 

“Leopardfur suggested we go hunt.” Beetlenose looked 
at the fresh-kill pile. “The Clan is hungry.” He looked 


apologetic, as though it was tactless to talk of food when 
they’d suffered such a loss, but Crookedstar nodded. 

“She’s right,” he mewed. “But first there are other duties 
to be performed.” He looked around the Clan, and they 
gathered closer, their eyes sharp with interest. “We must 
recognize the bravery of one of our Clanmates.” 

For a moment, Leopardfur wondered who the RiverClan 
leader could mean; then her heart lifted as she saw 
Crookedstar’s gaze seek out Whitepaw. 

“Whitepaw risked his life to save Blackclaw yesterday.” 
Crookedstar beckoned the young tom into the center of the 
clearing with a nod. 

Whitepaw’s pelt fluffed nervously as he padded toward 
the RiverClan leader. 

Crookedstar touched his nose to Whitepaw’s head. “You 
showed courage and strength and loyalty,” he mewed. “I see 
no need for an assessment. Leopardfur and Frogleap have 
both told me how much progress you’ve made this past 
moon. You’ve done more than enough to earn your warrior 
name.” 

Whitepaw lifted his muzzle, glancing gratefully toward 
Leopardfur before meeting the RiverClan leader’s gaze. 

“For this moment on, you shall be known as Whiteclaw.” 

“Whiteclaw!” Leopardfur called out his name as pride 
flowed like sunlight beneath her pelt. Her Clanmates joined 
in, and the small island clearing rang with their yowls. Are 


you watching, Sunfish? She glanced at the sky, an ache in 
her heart as she wished Sunfish could be with her son to 
celebrate this moment. 

Crookedstar looked around his Clanmates once more as 
their chant died away and Whiteclaw padded to 
Leopardfur’s side. She could hear him purring softly as he 
took his place beside her and she touched her nose to his 
head. “Well done.” 

Crookedstar’s gaze had grown solemn once more. 
“There is one more duty I must perform,” he mewed. 
“RiverClan has lost its deputy, and we will miss him. He was 
smart and brave and a skillful warrior And he was my 
littermate. I will be lost without him.” His mew grew husky, 
and he closed his eyes for a moment as though 
overwhelmed by his grief. When he opened them, he looked 
at Leopardfur. The intensity of his gaze took her by surprise. 
Why was he staring at her? Was he regretting not sending 
her with the battle patrol after all? 

His gaze flitted away, moving from one warrior to 
another. “The warrior I have chosen as RiverClan’s new 
deputy has shown courage and dedication and strength.” 

Leopardfur glanced around her Clanmates. Who would 
he choose? There were so many experienced warriors in 
RiverClan, it would be hard to pick one. Rippleclaw had 
always been close to Crookedstar, and Beetlenose had 
fought for his Clan for moons. Ottersplash was clever and 


quick, and Leopardfur felt sure that she had eamed the 
deputyship many times over. 

“Leopardfur.” 

She turned to face the RiverClan leader as he spoke her 
name and padded forward a few steps. Did he want her to 
run an errand while he made his final decision? “Yes?” 

“You will be RiverClan’s deputy.” 

She stared at him. Had she heard him right? She glanced 
at Frogleap, searching his gaze in case she’d misunderstood, 
but Frogleap’s eyes were shining with pride. He nodded her 
forward. Whiteclaw’s purr was loud enough for any cat to 
hear. 

She turned back to Crookedstar. He was looking at her 
expectantly. “You showed great courage yesterday when 
you saved Blackclaw’s life. And today it seems you 
instinctively took charge when the Clan was overwhelmed 
by its loss.” 

Leopardfur’s ears twitched self-consciously. Was 
Mudfur watching this? She jerked her muzzle toward the 
medicine den. He was standing at the entrance. But his gaze 
was not on Leopardfur. He was staring in surprise at 
Crookedstar. 

“I know Leopardfur wanted to be part of the battle 
yesterday,” the RiverClan leader went on. “And part of me 
wishes Id let her go. She is one of our best fighters and 
never backs down froma challenge. But she obeyed me and 


stayed in camp, and because she did, Blackclaw is still with 
us. Thanks to her quick thinking and boldness, we are 
mourning one cat today instead of two.” 

“But she’s so young.” 

Leopardfur heard Birdsong whispering to Tanglewhisker, 
and her pelt twitched uneasily as murmurs rippled around 
the Clan. 

“Why her?” 

“Does she have enough experience?” 

Crookedstar lifted his voice above the whispers. “I have 
watched Leopardfur closely since she was a kit. I've seen 
her overcome every obstacle and prove her loyalty again 
and again. After losing a leader and a deputy in so few 
moons, it’s important that I appoint a warrior whose youth 
and strength and ability to survive will ensure stability and 
continuity in RiverClan for many moons to come.” His gaze 
fixed on her, and she felt as though lightning were sparking 
through her fur. “Will you accept the job, Leopardfur?” he 
asked. 

She dipped her head, her amazement only now giving 
way to excitement. She could do this, no matter what her 
Clanmates thought. “I’d be honored,” she mewed. 

“Leopardfur!” Frogleap was the first to chant her name. 
Whiteclaw joined in, and then Skyheart and Sedgecreek too. 
Soon the whole Clan was calling her name, and she looked 
around, searching their gazes, wondering how many of them 


truly approved of Crookedstar’s choice. Sedgecreek’s and 
Skyheart’s eyes shone, but Rippleclaw looked anxious, and 
she saw Cedarpelt and Piketooth glance awkwardly at each 
other. 

She lifted her chin. It didn’t matter. She would prove that 
she was the right choice for RiverClan. If she lacked 
experience, she would make up for it with loyalty and 
courage. If she was young, she would show them she had 
strength and energy an older warrior could no longer muster. 
There was no cat in RiverClan more prepared to put their 
whole heart into protecting her Clan than she was, and if 
they’d give her a chance, she’d make them see it. 

From the comer of her eye, she saw the moss-draped 
entrance of the medicine den shiver. Mudfur had slid back 
inside. Did one of his patients need him? As the cheering 
died away and her Clanmates gathered once more into 
patrols and began to head for the entrance, Leopardfur 
nodded gratefully and made her way to the medicine den. 

“Congratulations!” Whiteclaw bounded to her side. 

Frogleap fell in beside her. “Crookedstar made a great 
choice,” he mewed. “You’re going to be an awesome 
deputy.” 

Leopardfur blinked at him, warmed by his confidence in 
her, but her thoughts were on her father. Shouldn’t he be 
congratulating her, too? “I need to speak to Mudfur,” she 
told Frogleap. 


He seemed to understand. “Sure.” He flicked his tail 
toward Whiteclaw. “You’d better join my patrol,” he told the 
young tom. “Now that you’re a warrior, we can do some 
serious hunting.” 

Whiteclaw’s eyes lit up, “No more frogs?” 

Frogleap purred. “I wouldn’t go that far.” 

As they padded away, Leopardfur nosed her way into 
the medicine den. Mistyfoot and Loudbelly were asleep, but 
Blackclaw lifted his head and blinked at her happily. “Hi, 
Leopardfur.” 

Mudfur was lining a spare nest with strips of moss. He 
looked at her, and she leaned forward, hoping to see pride in 
his gaze. But he just blinked at her. “You must be pleased,” 
he mewed. 

For some reason, the words felt likes claws in her heart. 
“Of course Iam.” She frowned. “Aren’t you?” 

He straightened and padded past her, pushing his way 
out of the den. She followed, leaving Blackclaw staring after 
them, puzzled. 

A few tail-lengths away from the medicine den, Mudfur 
paused. She stopped beside him, a chill reaching deep into 
her pelt. “Aren’t you happy for me at all?” 

He seemed to think for a moment before he spoke. “Of 
course I am,” he mewed. “And I’m glad Crookedstar thinks 
so highly of you.” Leopardfur tensed. His tone was 
controlled, as though he was holding something back. He 


went on. “I knew you were destined for great things. I’ve 
always thought it, but . . .” He paused. 

His hesitation frightened her. 

“I just wonder if you’re . . .” His mew trailed away again 
and she felt sick. 

“Tf ’'m what?” She didn’t want to hear the answer. 

“Tf you’re ready.” 

Uncertainty curled its claws into her belly. Why couldn’t 
he just congratulate her? This was a great chance. But it was 
scary too. She needed encouragement, not doubt. 

“Crookedstar was right in everything he said,” Mudfur 
mewed. “You’re bold and smart, and you never back down 
froma challenge.” 

She blinked at him. “So why can’t you support me?” 

His eyes darkened. “You’re too quick to anger,” he told 
her. “A deputy becomes a leader, and a leader must be able 
to keep their temper. I don’t know if you—” 

She turned away, not wanting to hear any more. She 
knew Mudfur loved her. He’d always loved her. But now, 
just when she was finally beginning to realize her dreams, he 
doubted her. The betrayal was more than she could bear. 

She bounded across the clearing and headed out of 
camp. She had to get away. She needed time to think. 

How could he say she wasn’t ready to be deputy? Was 
it really so hard for him just to be happy for her? 








CHAPTER 8 
+ 


Moonlight silvered the leaves of the four great oaks that 
comered the steep-sided glade. The sky was clear and 
Silverpelt shone brightly. Leopardfur puffed out her chest. 
This was her first Gathering as deputy, and she was eyeing 
the bushy slopes sharply, waiting for ThunderClan to arrive. 
It still pained her to see the cats who had killed Oakheart. 
They seemed to have no reaction: no gloating over their 
victory or showing shame at his death. How dare 
ThunderClan kill a warrior for Sunningrocks when they had 
no right to it? 

ShadowClan was already in the clearing. Brokenstar was 
already waiting beneath the Great Rock, which jutted from 
the ground like a jagged tooth. His face was broad and flat 
and he stared around coldly. As Crookedstar joined him, 
Emberpaw and Mosspaw hurried away to talk with the 
ShadowClan apprentices. Leopardfur had warned them not 
to give anything away. Birdsong and Tanglewhisker were 
already gossiping with ShadowClan’s elders as Mudfur 
exchanged news with Runningnose at the edge of the 
clearing. She felt a prickle of unease. The tradition of sharing 
tongues with other Clans simply because it was full moon 
made her nervous. They might live side by side, but once 
the Gathering was over, the other Clans couldn’t be trusted. 


ThunderClan had proven that. She wished Crookedstar 
would discourage RiverClan from mixing with the others, but 
from the way he greeted the ShadowClan cats like old 
friends as he crossed the clearing, she doubted he would. 

Leopardfur stayed beneath the shadow of an oak as 
Whiteclaw and Vixenleap headed toward the ShadowClan 
cats. She swallowed back the urge to stop them. Crookedstar 
wouldn’t approve of her interfering. Perhaps they could at 
least pick up some useful gossip. 

Rippleclaw and Frogleap were the only cats to hang back 
with her. They eyed the slopes, their tails twitching. Were 
they keeping watch for ThunderClan too? 

Frogleap had not left her side since they’d started out 
for the Gathering, and she was glad to have his steady 
company. They’d had the chance to catch up. In the days 
since she’d been made deputy, she’d hardly had time to 
speak with him. She’d been busy organizing patrols, making 
sure that the borders were well-marked—especially 
ThunderClan’s—and checking on Emberpaw and 
Mosspaw’s training. She’d told Owlfur and Ottersplash to 
focus on their battle skills since ThunderClan seemed 
determined to steal RiverClan territory. And, since prey was 
rich and hunting still easy, she’d insisted that every warrior 
spend time practicing fighting moves and often joined them. 
Indeed, she’d joined almost every patrol, whether it was 
hunting or training, and shared tongues and prey with as 


many warriors as she could. She was determined that even 
RiverClan’s most senior warriors would see that she had her 
Clan’s best interests at heart and that Crookedstar had made 
the right choice in choosing her as deputy. 

Frogleap nodded toward the far slope. “They’re here,” 
he whispered. 

Shapes were moving like fish through the shadows. 
Leopardfur wrinkled her nose as she smelled ThunderClan 
scent and Bluestar led her warriors into the clearing. 

Almost at once, three young ThunderClan toms broke 
away from the group and headed into the crowd. Bluestar 
padded toward Crookedstar, while Spottedleaf, her medicine 
cat, hurried to greet Mudfur and Runningnose. 

Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. “Where’s Redtail?” She 
knew the ThunderClan deputy had been part of the patrol 
that killed Oakheart. 

Frogleap was already scanning the clearing. “I can’t see 
him.” 

“Perhaps he’s too ashamed to show his face.” 

“He should be,” Frogleap growled. 

Leopardfur glowered at Lionheart and Whitestormas the 
two ThunderClan warriors crossed the clearing, but they 
didn’t even look at her. They seemed at ease as they moved 
among the other Clans, as though the deaths of Whitefang, 
Sunfish, and Oakheart meant nothing to them. Anger burned 
in Leopardfur’s chest. 


“WindClan is late.” Frogleap was still watching the 
slopes. 

“Its a long way to travel from the moor,” Leopardfur 
mewed. 

“They’ve never been late before.” 

Leopardfur frowned. It was true. And hadn’t Beetlenose 
reported that morning that the marks on the WindClan 
border smelled stale? She tasted the air. There was no scent 
of a WindClan patrol now, and the thick ferns reaching 
toward the rise where WindClan usually appeared stood 
undisturbed in the bright moonlight. 

A loud yowl sounded from the Great Rock. 

“Let us gather!” Brokenstar called from the top. As 
Crookedstar leaped up beside him, Leopardfur hurried to join 
the other deputies at the foot. She ignored Lionheart, who 
seemed to have taken Redtail’s place for the night, and gave 
Blackfoot a small nod. She was going to make it clear that 
these cats weren’t her friends. 

Bluestar took her place beside Crookedstar, but she was 
watching the fern-covered slope with interest, as though 
curious whether WindClan would appear. 

“We can’t start yet!” a black she-cat called from among 
the ThunderClan warriors. “We must wait till all the Clans are 
here.” Anxious mews sounded around her, but the 
ShadowClan cats seemed only intent on watching their 
leader as he sat, gazing impassively at the crowd. 


Bluestar padded to the edge of the Great Rock. “Cats of 
all the Clans, welcome.” She held her head high, and her 
mew rang confidently across the glade. Leopardfur narrowed 
her eyes. Didn’t ThunderClan have any shame? “It’s true 
WindClan isn’t here,” she mewed. “But Brokenstar wishes to 
speak anyway.” 

The gathered cats’ attention was drawn back to the Great 
Rock. Brokenstar began yowling harshly. “Leaf-bare left us 
with little prey. But we also know that WindClan, RiverClan, 
and ThunderClan lost many kits in the freezing weather that 
came so late this season. ShadowClan did not lose kits. We 
are hardened to the cold north wind. Our kits are stronger 
than yours from the moment they are bom.” The 
ShadowClan leader’s stare seemed to carry a challenge as he 
looked down at the gathered cats. “We find ourselves with 
many mouths to feed and not enough prey to feed them.” 

Leopardfur frowned. ShadowClan didn’t look hungry. 

“Our needs are simple,” Brokenstar went on. “In order to 
survive, we must increase our hunting territory. That’s why I 
insist you allow ShadowClan warriors to hunt in your 
territories.” 

Shock pulsed in Leopardfur’s paws. 

Tigerclaw, the fierce ThunderClan warrior, objected first. 
“Share our hunting grounds?” He sounded outraged. 
Leopardfur bristled in agreement. What in StarClan was 
Brokenstar talking about? Clans never hunted on each 


other’s land. 

“Should ShadowClan be punished because our kits 
thrive?” Brokenstar demanded. 

Leopardfur felt stunned. She swallowed back anger. It 
rose so fiercely in her chest that she couldn’t find the words 
to object. 

“Do you want us to watch our young starve? You must 
share what you have with us,” Brokenstar went on. 

“Must!” a ThunderClan elder echoed in disbelief. 

“Must,” Brokenstar repeated. “WindClan failed to 
understand this, and we were forced to drive them out of 
their territory.” 

A chill slid along Leopardfur’s spine. Drive them out of 
their territory? Was that why WindClan wasn’t here? Was 
that what would happen to RiverClan? ThunderClan had 
already stolen Sunningrocks, and who knew what else they 
planned to steal. Now ShadowClan was demanding hunting 
rights. If RiverClan couldn’t defend itself from ThunderClan, 
how could it fight off ShadowClan too? 

Brokenstar was leaning over the edge of the Great Rock 
as he spoke now, every word rich with menace. “There may 
come a time when you’ll need us to protect you.” 

Only one voice spoke up against him. Tigerclaw’s dark 
amber eyes were fixed on Brokenstar. There was a threat in 
them. “You doubt our strength?” he hissed. 

Leopardfur felt a rush of admiration. This warrior wasn’t 


scared to say what he thought, even to another Clan’s 
leader. 

Brokenstar ignored him. “I do not ask for your answer 
now,” he mewed. “You must each go away and consider my 
words. But bear this in mind. Would you prefer to share your 
prey, or be driven out and left homeless and starving?” 

As the warriors, elders, and apprentices exchanged 
disbelieving glances, Crookedstar stepped forward. 
Leopardfur looked at him eagerly. He’d tell Brokenstar 
exactly what he thought about his idea. Hunting on 
RiverClan land! What warrior would allow such a thing? 

But when Crookedstar looked around at the gathered 
cats, what he said pierced her heart. “I have already agreed 
to allow ShadowClan hunting rights in our river.” 

What? Leopardfur stared at him in shock. What was he 
saying? He’d agreed? Without telling her! It was absurd. 
ShadowClan cats couldn’t even swim, let alone fish. And 
with the pike making the river downstream unfishable, they 
needed every tail-length of water for their own hunting. 

She saw Frogleap bristle as well. “ShadowClan cats on 
our territory?” 

Leopardstar finally found her voice. “No Clan hunts on 
our land but RiverClan!” 

Tanglewhisker’s tail flicked angrily. 

Rippleclaw stepped forward. “We weren’t consulted!” he 
yowled at Crookedstar. 


“T feel it’s the best for our Clan.” Crookedstar glanced 
quickly at the gray tabby tom, then tumed to meet 
Leopardfur’s gaze. A warning glittered in his. He wanted her 
to be quiet. “For all the Clans.” 

Leopardfur barely heard Bluestar tell Brokenstar that she 
would talk to her Clan before giving her answer. Anger 
pounded in her chest. Why hadn’t Crookedstar consulted 
her? She was his deputy. She should have known about this. 

Before she knew it, the leaders were leaping down from 
the Great Rock, and ThunderClan and RiverClan were 
melting away into the bushes as the Gathering broke up. 
Crookedstar was heading for the slope that led to the 
RiverClan border. 

“Come on.” Frogleap called to her as he turned to follow 
his Clanmates. Leopardfur stared after him. Was that it? The 
decision had been made, and RiverClan land was now open 
territory for ShadowClan? Her heart was pounding with fury. 
She had to speak with Crookedstar. He couldn’t let this 
happen. 

She raced after him as he led the RiverClan patrol up the 
slope. She hardly saw the ThunderClan tom crossing her 
path and, moving too fast to swerve, thumped into his side. 
She stumbled to a halt, recognizing Tigerclaw. “Sorry,” she 
mewed. 

As she turned to head away, he spoke. “Leopardfur?” 
He sounded uncertain. “The new RiverClan deputy, right?” 


She stopped and faced him. Was that admiration in his 
mew? “Yes,” she answered warily. 

“Pm glad to see that one of our leaders has the good 
sense to appoint a young warrior as deputy.” His gaze flitted 
curiously over her pelt. “Brokenstar chose Blackfoot. 
StarClan only knows how many moons hes been alive. And 
Bluestar chose Lionheart.” He shot a sour look at the 
ThunderClan deputy as he headed up the slope with his 
Clanmates. 

Leopardfur blinked at him. Was he being openly 
disloyal? In front ofa cat from another Clan? 

Tigerclaw went on. “The Clans need fresh energy to 
sweep away old beliefs.” He looked at her expectantly. 
“Don’t you think?” 

She narrowed her eyes. He was a ThunderClan warrior. 
She wasn’t ready yet to forgive the deaths of her Clanmates. 
But she couldn’t help agreeing with him. “I guess,” she 
grunted, and turned away. 

Crookedstar was nearly at the top of the slope. She 
bounded after him, weaving between her Clanmates to catch 
up, and reached him as he followed the path through the 
woodland. “Crookedstar!” Breathless, she scrambled to a 
halt beside him. “You can’t do this!” 

Acknowledging her with a glance, he carried on walking. 

“You can’t let ShadowClan hunt on our land,” she 
pressed. 


“And you can’t challenge me in front of the Clan.” His 
ears twitched irritably as he looked over his shoulder. 
Rippleclaw and Timberfur were exchanging glances. “You’re 
my deputy.” 

Anger flooded out. “Then why didn’t you consult me?” 

Crookedstar nudged her off the trail, behind a spreading 
juniper, and glared at her while the rest of the patrol moved 
on. 

“There was no need to consult you,” he mewed when 
they’d disappeared. “I knew what you’d say.” 

“Td only say what any true warrior would say!” she 
mewed hotly. “You can’t give hunting rights to another 
Clan!” 

“Do you want to be at war with two Clans?” he 
demanded. “Do you really think we could defend ourselves 
against ShadowClan when we can’t even keep 
Sunningrocks?” 

“We need to try!” 

“And lose how many more lives?” 

“Are we just going to give our territory to any Clan that 
asks for it?” She couldn’t believe he would give up so easily. 
“Are you going to let them drive us away like they did 
WindClan?” 

“Of course not,” Crookedstar growled. “But the only 
way to survive is to lose this battle. Then we might be able 
to win the war.” 


“How?” she demanded. “When we’ve lost the respect of 
every other Clan? When we’ve shown them that they can 
push us around?” 

“Things will change.” His tone grew softer “I 
understand why you’re frustrated, but we need to give 
ourselves time to find our paws. That’s one of the reasons I 
made you deputy. And you’ve done well so far. I can see 
you trying to strengthen RiverClan—the border patrols, the 
extra battle training— and I want you to keep on doing it.” 

“Why? When you’re not prepared to fight?” 

“Because one day we might have to. But that day’s not 
today.” 

She stared at him helplessly. “You didn’t even tell me 
you’d made a deal with Brokenstar.” 

“I know.” He sighed heavily. “I knew you’d want to fight 
Brokenstar before you agreed to his terms.” 

“Would that be so wrong?” 

“No,” he mewed. “But you need to learn when to fight. If 
a leader reacts to everything with their claws, we’ll always 
be at war. There are ways to protect your Clan without 
bloodshed.” 

“T don’t understand.” She felt hurt. “If you you’re not 
willing to listen to me, why did you make me your deputy?” 

“You have the boldness and courage that RiverClan 
needs,” he mewed. “But until you’ve learned to master your 
temper, I will take advice from older cats.” 


“Like who?” Tanglewhisker? Rippleclaw? They clearly 
didn’t want to give hunting rights to ShadowClan any more 
than she did. 

Crookedstar’s gaze flitted past her and she followed it, 
surprise sparking in her fur as she saw Mudfur. Her father 
had stopped to listen. Why? Was he the older cat 
Crookedstar had gone to for advice? 

Mudfur dipped his head, then turned and headed away. 
Leopardfur’s anger rekindled like scorched leaves in the sun. 
Mudfur might be wise, in his way, but he wasn’t even a 
warrior! 

Leaving Crookedstar behind, she hurried after her father, 
her tail lashing. “Did you tell Crookedstar to let ShadowClan 
hunt on our land?” 

“He asked what I thought and I told him.” Mudfur kept 
calmly walking. 

“That’s my duty!” she snapped. 

“But Crookedstar asked me.” Mudfur gave her a pointed 
glance. 

And he didnt ask me. Leopardfur felt so frustrated she 
could barely speak. “I guess you think this proves you 
right,” she growled finally. 

“About what?” 

“You said I wasn’t ready to be deputy, and I guess if 
Crookedstar is asking your advice instead of mine, you must 
think you're right.” But he5 wrong. She knew he was wrong, 


and she would prove it. 

“I don’t care about being right.” He stopped and looked 
at her. “I care about you, and about our Clan. I want you to 
be the best warrior you can be.” 

“Pm deputy!” she snapped. Wasn’t he even a little bit 
proud ofher? “Isn’t that good enough for you?” 

“Being deputy doesn’t make you the best,” he mewed. 

“But you always said I was special!” Her anger was 
turning to despair. From her earliest memories, Mudfur had 
been her biggest supporter. How had he lost so much faith 
in her? 

“I still think you are,” he mewed. “You will save your 
Clan one day. Pm sure of it. I remember my dream like it was 
yesterday. But now you’re young, and you’re too quick to 
anger.” 

“Only because you and Crookedstar don’t listen to me!” 
Frustration surged beneath her pelt. What am I supposed to 
do? 

He gazed at her softly. “Are you listening to us?” 

A shiver ran through her fur. She wanted to listen. She 
wanted to understand. But did she? She had no answer. 

“A good deputy must know how to listen more than they 
speak,” Mudfur went on. “They must be prepared to fight 
for their Clan, but it should never be their first choice.” 

Shame warmed her pelt. 

“Fighting should be your last resort,” Mudfur mewed. 


“And I hope that, when you are the one to make all the 
decisions for your Clan, you won’t let anger sway you. I 
hope that you won’t choose war when peace is still an 
option.” 

Peace? After what ThunderClan had done? After what 
Brokenstar was demanding? What was wrong with these old 
warriors? Tigerclaw was right. The Clans needed fresh 
energy. Otherwise they’d all end up like WindClan, driven 
from their home, too frightened to fight for their land and 
their Clanmates. 

But Mudfur was still talking. “You have a chance to lead 
RiverClan into a more peaceful time.” His eyes were shining. 
“A time when cats don’t fight over a pile of rocks. When we 
don’t lose our Clanmates over a border or a piece of prey.” 
He blinked at her eagerly. “What if you could save RiverClan 
by bringing us peace?” 

She stared at him. Didn’t he realize that cats like 
Brokenstar didn’t care about reason, and that ThunderClan 
would keep taking RiverClan territory whenever they could? 
How could he be so naive? He’d lived among the Clans long 
enough to realize that peace was not possible as long as one 
warrior was willing to steal from another. And there would 
always be warriors in every Clan who wanted to steal from 
others. That was just how life was. Wishing wouldn’t 
change it. RiverClan needed her to fight. If it was left to 
these old toms to make the decisions, they’d lose 


everything. 

Mudfur was still looking at her. “Will you think about 
what I’ve said?” he asked gently. “I’m sure that if you make 
an effort to control your anger, if you listen first and then 
speak, you can become the leader I always imagined you’d 
be.” 

She blinked back at him. Was that really how he saw her? 
Hot-tempered and unwilling to listen? She looked away. 
There didn’t seem any point in arguing. If he really believed 
that giving in to bullies like Brokenstar was the way to save 
RiverClan, nothing she could say would change his mind. 
Perhaps she and Mudfur would never see eye to eye—not 
about her being deputy, and not about how to run the Clan. 
This knowledge hurt, but Leopardfur couldn’t imagine how 
she might change it. Swallowing back frustration, she dipped 
her head. “Okay,” she murmured. “Pll try to control my 
temper and listen more.” 

As Mudfur stretched his muzzle toward her and rubbed 
his cheek against hers, she closed her eyes. If only life were 
as simple as her father seemed to believe. 


The moon was still high when they reached camp, and 
she slowed to let Mudfur duck first through the reed tunnel. 
It had been a long day. She’d been awake since before dawn, 
planning the day’s patrols, and the arguments with 
Crookedstar and her father had left her weary. The rest of her 
Clanmates had already disappeared into their dens, and 


Mudfur looked back at her, blinking fondly, before he turned 
away and padded to the medicine den. 

As Leopardfur headed to the warriors’ den, a shape 
moved in the shadows outside. She recognized Frogleap’s 
gray pelt and striped tail, her heart lifting a little. “You waited 
for me.” She was touched and pressed her nose to his cheek. 
His warm scent soothed her, and she realized how much 
she’d missed himthese past days. 

“T need to talk to you.” His eyes glistened in the 
moonlight. He looked serious. 

She tensed. “About what?” Had something happened? 

He guided her away from the den. “This is the first time 
we’ve been alone since you became deputy,” he mewed, 
stopping in the shadows beside the sedge. 

“I know,” she mewed guiltily. “I’m sorry. Pve just been 
so busy.” She promised herself that she’d try to make time 
for him tomorrow. Perhaps she would assign them to a patrol 
together. They could go hunting upstream, maybe fish in the 
minnow pool like they used to when they were training 
Whiteclaw. 

“You’re going to be just as busy from now on, though, 
aren’t you?” Frogleap’s eyes sparked with hurt. 

She wished they didn’t, although she knew what he’d 
said was at least part true. She wanted to comfort him. 
“There's so much I need to do.” She moved closer. “But I 
promise, Pll try harder to make time for you.” 


“I don’t want you to have to make time for me,” 
Frogleap murmured. “I shouldn’t be one of your duties.” 

“Tt’s not like that.” What did he expect? She had to put 
the Clan first. But that didn’t mean he wasn’t important. 

“T thought we had something special,” he mewed. 

“We did!” Where was he going with this? She began to 
feel nervous. “We do!” 

“T imagined we’d become mates soon,” he mewed. “And 
have kits together. Like Sunfish and Beetlenose.” 

“Kits?” Leopardfur couldn’t hide her horror. “I can’t 
have kits right now. I’m deputy. And one day I might be 
leader, although I hope nothing happens to 
Crookedstar. . . .” Her mew trailed away as her thoughts 
quickened. What if something did happen to him? What if 
he died? She’d have to travel to the Moonstone. She’d be 
given nine lives. Everything would change. “But if it did—” 

“Tf it did,” Frogleap interrupted her, “there’d be no time 
for me at all.” 

“Pd make time,” she mewed. “Other leaders have mates. 
Why shouldn’t I?” 

He was gazing at her, his eyes round. “I guess other cats 
are less selfish than me,” he mewed. “They can put their 
Clan before their own needs. But I want kits, and a mate who 
has time for me. And I’ve come to realize that means I need a 
mate who’s just a warrior, like me.” 

“You’re not just a warrior,” Leopardfur mewed. “You're 


special. Like me. Together we can make RiverClan strong.” 

“That’s your destiny,” he mewed. “Not mine. I want to 
belong to RiverClan. You want to lead it. You want nine 
lives. I only want one, and I don’t want to waste it waiting 
for the cat I love to make time for me.” 

Pain tightened like brambles around her heart, piercing it 
until she could hardly breathe. “Would a life with me really 
be wasted?” she mewed hoarsely. 

“Not if it was our life to share,” he mewed. “But you 
want to share your life with all of RiverClan. And I don’t 
want to get in the way.” 

She wanted to tell him that he wouldn’t be getting in the 
way, but she knew he was right. If they were mates, he’d 
always come second to the Clan. And perhaps that wasn’t 
fair to him. He deserved a mate who would put him first, who 
would give him the kits and the love he’d dreamed of. Her 
eyes pricked with sadness as she met his gaze. “I’m sorry,” 
she whispered. “I love you, but I have to follow the path 
StarClan has laid out for me.” 

He touched his nose to her cheek, and the warmth of his 
breath brought a sob to her throat. She swallowed it back 
and drew away. 

He looked at her for a moment more, then dipped his 
head and padded away. The moonlight seemed to turn his 
pelt to water, making it shimmer as he crossed the clearing. 
Grief welled in her chest, but she knew she’d made the right 


decision. If she was to follow her destiny, she would have to 
make sacrifices along the way. 

She just hoped that this wasn’t one that she’d come to 
regret. 





CHAPTER 9 
¥ 


Leopardfur shivered and fluffed out her pelt. It was a chilly 
morning. As usual, she’d been awake since dawn, 
organizing the day’s patrols. Two were already out hunting, 
and another was heading for the ThunderClan border to 
refresh the markers. 

She gazed at the distant moor, rosy beneath the early- 
morning sun. It still felt strange that WindClan no longer 
hunted there. Frost glittered on the heather and reached 
down as far as the river, where the shallow, quiet waters at 
the edge of the camp had grown a thin skin of ice. She could 
hear Heavypaw and Shadepaw cracking it with their paws as 
they hunted for minnows in the reed bed. 

“Leopardfur!” Rippleclaw called from the entrance. She 
tumed, surprised. She thought he’d already left with his 
patrol. “There are fox prints along the riverbank.” 

Her tail twitched indignantly. How dare a fox show its 
muzzle so close to the camp? “Follow its trail,” she told him. 
“Make sure it heads back into the forest. If it doesn’t, cover 
its scent trail with your own. Make sure it knows that 
RiverClan doesn’t welcome scavengers.” She thought, with 
a grunt, of the ShadowClan patrols that had been hunting on 
RiverClan land these past moons, and wished a scent trail 
were enough to scare off those scavengers too. But they 


still had Crookedstar’s permission, and, although anger 
prickled beneath her pelt every time she imagined them 
spreading their stench over RiverClan land, she held her 
tongue and waited. 

RiverClan was getting stronger by the day. She was 
making sure of that. She kept every paw busy—and none 
more than her own—patrolling and hunting and training so 
that her Clanmates were fitter than they’d been in moons, 
and they’d never worked better together. And they seemed 
to respect her for it. Even the older warriors had stopped 
muttering under their breath about her youth and 
inexperience. 

Now, as Rippleclaw turned to leave, she called again. 
“Take Sedgecreek and Lakeshine with you just in case the 
fox turns nasty.” The two she-cats had been weaving moss 
into the walls of the elders’ den to protect Birdsong and 
Tanglewhisker from the cold. At her order, they stopped 
work and hurried after Rippleclaw. 

Crookedstar was heading for the entrance tunnel. He had 
gathered his own patrol—Shimmerpelt, Ottersplash, and 
Piketooth—which was something he liked to do after the 
early patrols had left. Leopardfur always made sure that a 
few of the Clan’s best hunters were left behind for him. 

She crossed the clearing to speak to him before he left. 
She was worried the river downstream had been overfished 
this past moon. “Are you planning to hunt river prey?” she 


asked. 

“Yes.” Crookedstar searched her gaze. “Why do you 
ask?” 

“I thought you could fish near Sunningrocks.” 
Crookedstar had avoided that part of the river since 
ThunderClan had taken it as their territory. If he wasn’t 
willing to fight to get the rocks back, he should at least make 
RiverClan’s presence felt there. She kept her mew casual. 
“We haven’t fished there for moons. It must be teeming with 
prey. What do you think?” 

His gaze narrowed. “You know how I feel about that 
stretch of the river.” 

“Yes, I know. Sunningrocks is ThunderClan territory 
right now.” She sat down and curled her tail over her 
forepaws. “But it seems a shame to waste such a prey-rich 
part of the river” She tipped her head to one side. “And the 
river is still our territory.” 

Beside the entrance, Shimmerpelt, Ottersplash, and 
Piketooth were shifting impatiently, their breath billowing in 
the freezing air. 

Piketooth pricked his ears. “Fish do shelter in the calm 
water there,” he told Crookedstar. 

Leopardfur didn’t take her gaze from the RiverClan 
leader. It was clear from his expression that he had heard her, 
and recognized that the others agreed with her. Perhaps that 
was enough for now. “But perhaps it’s better not to provoke 


ThunderClan,” she went on. “The peace over the past few 
moons has allowed RiverClan to find its paws again, as you 
hoped. And we have plenty of other places to hunt.” 

Crookedstar eyed her sharply. “I can see that it’s not just 
RiverClan that’s found its paws these past moons,” he 
mewed. “I’m glad to see that you’ve become as skilled with 
words as you are with your claws. But we won’t be fishing 
near Sunningrocks today.” He headed for the entrance, 
flicking his tail. Shimmerpelt and Ottersplash hurried after 
him, but Piketooth hesitated, catching Leopardfur’s eye 
before he followed. 

Leopardfur felt a glimmer of satisfaction. She might not 
have persuaded Crookedstar, but she’d persuaded 
Piketooth. He might persuade the other senior warriors. And 
all without losing her temper. Would Mudfur be impressed 
by her patience? 

Tanglewhisker and Birdsong were making the most of a 
patch of weak sunshine outside the elders’ den, and 
Shadepaw and Heavypaw were still wading through the reed 
bed, slapping the water as they hunted for minnows. 
Whiteclaw had stopped nearby to watch them, his tail 
flicking excitedly each time they grabbed at a shadow 
beneath the surface. 

Blackclaw was still washing the sleep from his eyes. 
He’d sat guard last night and had slept late. 

“What training do you have planned for Heavypaw 


today?” Leopardfur called to him. 

Blackclaw blinked at her. “I was planning to take him to 
the gorge to teach him white-water fishing.” 

Stonefur padded from the dirtplace tunnel, pricking his 
ears. “Pll join you and bring Shadepaw,” he called. “There 
might still be some late salmon heading upstream.” 

Whiteclaw straightened. “Can I come?” The young 
warrior was skilled at fishing the rushing torrent that swirled 
through the gorge, and some days during leaf-fall, he had 
brought back enough salmon to feed half the Clan. 

As they prepared to leave, Mosspelt and Frogleap 
padded from the warriors’ den, their whiskers twitching with 
amusement as though sharing a joke. 

Leopardfur’s gaze snapped toward them, a pang of 
jealousy piercing her heart. They’d been spending more and 
more time together, sharing prey and tongues away from 
their denmates. “You missed the patrols,’ she mewed 
sharply. 

Frogleap looked at her, surprised. “You said last night 
that you didn’t need me for the early patrols.” 

“That doesn’t mean I didn’t need Mosspelt.” Her pelt 
prickled self-consciously as she realized how petty she 
sounded. She knew she shouldn’t care if they were close, 
but it was hard not to feel possessive. Two moons ago, 
Frogleap had been sharing jokes with her. What was going 
on between Frogleap and Mosspelt? Was it friendship? Or 


something more? Perhaps if she could figure out what was 
happening, she could come to terms with it. 

“Come hunting with me.” She forced her mew to sound 
cheery. “Both of you. I could do with stretching my legs.” 
And Ican see just how close you are. 

She needed more warriors for the patrol. She didn’t want 
to feel like the extra egg in the nest. But the camp was nearly 
deserted. She saw, with relief, Reedtail scraping fresh earth 
over the empty patch where the prey would be piled later. 
Emberdawn was with him, brushing away discarded feathers 
with her paw. “Will you join us?” she mewed hopefully. 

“Sure.” Reedtail blinked at her happily. 

The river was so cold as they swam across it that she 
was breathless when she climbed out. She shook out her 
pelt and bounded into the forest to warmup. There would be 
birds there, looking for shelter from the frost. 

Reedtail and Emberdawn caught up to her as she 
reached the rise where bracken crowded the forest floor. She 
glanced back, jealousy pricking her belly, as Frogleap 
paused to let Mosspelt leap first over a jutting root. 
Mosspelt blinked at him warmly, and together they bounded 
up the rise. 

That could have been me. The thought made her catch 
her breath. Was he happier now that she’d chosen her duty 
to her Clan over him? What if Mosspelt meant more to him 
than she ever had? Mosspelt was a pretty tortoiseshell, and 


her white chest looked as soft as duck down. Leopardfur 
curled her claws into the earth, wishing she didn’t feel so 
jealous. She’d made her decision. She needed to live with it 
without complaining or letting her heart dwell on regret. 

Bracken rustled ahead of them. Emberdawn stiffened. 
Reedtail’s hackles lifted. He drew back his lips as 
ShadowClan scent rolled over them. A few tree-lengths 
ahead, the undergrowth was shivering. Paws thumped the 
earth, and a gray pelt burst from the fronds as a ShadowClan 
cat broke cover and veered across the forest floor. More 
pelts crashed through the bracken. 

Leopardfur stared at them. ShadowClan didn’t seem to 
care how much noise they made. A rabbit shot from the 
bracken and sent fallen leaves fluttering behind it as it tried 
to escape. But the ShadowClan warriors were gaining on it, 
yowling in triumph as they closed the gap—three strong 
warriors bearing down on a single piece of prey. Birds 
fluttered in panic in the branches above, and Leopardfur 
looked up to see them fly away. It would be a while before 
any prey dared return to this patch of forest. Anger rose in 
her throat as the ShadowClan warriors drove the rabbit 
down and one gave it a killing bite. 

Emberdawn hissed and Reedtail started forward, but 
Leopardfur swished her tail in front of him. 

“Stop,” she ordered. She had no choice. “Crookedstar 
gave them hunting rights here.” 


“They were given rights to the river, not the forest,” 
Reedtail snapped, as Frogleap and Mosspelt reached the 
patrol. 

Frogleap blinked at Reedtail. “Wouldn’t you rather they 
caught rabbits instead of fish?” he mewed. “We rarely eat 
them.” 

“Do they have to be so noisy about it?” Reedtail 
growled. “We should teach them how to hunt without 
scaring off the other prey.” 

Leopardfur grunted. “Why would they care?” she 
mewed. “Once they’ve scared our prey, they can go back to 
their own land and hunt.” 

Reedtail’s tail was lashing. “How long is Crookedstar 
going to allow this?” 

“Peace is better than war,” Frogleap mewed. 

Reedtail turned on him. “Not when it means starving.” 

“Who’s starving?” Frogleap mewed. 

“Us, if there’s a hard leaf-bare,” Reedtail snapped. 

“But what can we do?” Emberdawn argued. “Look what 
happened to WindClan when they refused Brokenstar.” 

Leopardfur’s paws pricked with indignation. Why had 
Tallstar let his Clan be chased away so easily? She’d rather 
fight to the death than accept such humiliation. 

One of the ShadowClan warriors picked up the rabbit 
and led the others deeper into the forest. They hadn’t even 
noticed the RiverClan patrol. 


Reedtail growled. “They could at least thank us,” he 
grunted. 

“I bet they don’t even thank StarClan,” Mosspelt 
sniffed. 

Frogleap glanced at her sharply. 

Leopardfur felt a rush of hope. Was he disappointed that 
Mosspelt had taken Reedtail’s side? But then she reminded 
herself: It didn’t matter what Frogleap was thinking, because 
she’d already made her choice. The Clan came before love. 
And in her heart of hearts, she agreed with Mosspelt— 
ShadowClan had no place here. She was deputy now, 
though, which meant that she had to support her leader. She 
lifted her chin. “We have to respect Crookedstar’s decision,” 
she mewed. “ShadowClan is only trying to feed their Clan.” 
She caught Frogleap’s eye, pleased when he blinked at her 
approvingly. “Come on.” She turned toward the river. “It’s 
pointless hunting here now. Let’s look for fish.” 

She headed upstream, where the river was wider and fish 
might be lounging in slack water. 

Where she padded from the trees, the shore was wide, 
stretching from the forest’s edge to the water. And a strange 
sight greeted her eyes: a new, soft-sided, brightly colored 
boulder sat on the pebbles. Leopardfur stared at it, her pelt 
twitching with alarm as its thin walls fluttered noisily in the 
breeze. In the opening, she could see a Twoleg. So this is a 
kind of Twoleg den ... ? The Twoleg was sitting on its 


haunches like squirrel, a long stick in its paws. A fine thread 
of what looked like spider’s web hung from the stick and 
dangled in the water, tugged by the current but unable to 
break free. 

Reedtail stopped beside Leopardfur. He seemed more 
interested than alarmed by the Twoleg. “What’s it doing?” 

“StarClan only knows,” Leopardfur murmured. She felt 
annoyed. The forest was full of ShadowClan, and now the 
shore had been taken up by Twolegs. 

“What’s that?” Emberdawn backed away as she saw the 
bright den, giving a low hiss. 

“A Twoleg seems to have made camp,” Leopardfur told 
her. 

“At least it’s alone,” Mosspelt commented. 

“We need to report this to Crookedstar,” Frogleap 
mewed. 

“We can tell Crookedstar later” Leopardfur’s claws 
itched with frustration. “Let’s head downstream for now. We 
can’t go back without prey.” As she began to tum away, the 
fine thread twitched. It jerked deeper into the water as 
though something was tugging it below the surface. 
Leopardfur halted, alarm shooting along her tail as the 
Twoleg leaped to its hind paws and began straining at the 
stick. It bowed like a branch heavy with fruit, and the Twoleg 
pulled at it, trying to draw the tip clear of the water. Was a 
fish trying to steal the thread? 


Suddenly, the stick flicked up, and the fish that had been 
pulling on it burst from the river. It writhed desperately at the 
end of the thread as the Twoleg swung it close and grabbed 
it with a meaty paw. Then the Twoleg dropped the stick, 
pulled the fish from the thread, and placed it in a small, 
orange container. 

Leopardfur strained to see what else was inside, rearing 
up onto her hind paws to get a better look. Her eyes 
widened with surprise. The container was filled with water 
like a small pond and was teeming with fish. The Twoleg 
must have been pulling them out of the river since dawn! 

Surprise gave way to anger. “No wonder the river’s been 
so empty!” she growled. “I bet that Twoleg has been 
stealing fish for days!” 

Emberdawn’s belly growled with hunger as she followed 
Leopardfur’s gaze. “Perhaps we should head for the water 
meadow and hunt for frogs.” 

Leopardfur looked at the dark ginger she-cat. “I’m not 
eating frogs while a Twoleg steals our fish.” A plan was 
forming in her mind. If it worked, they could return to camp 
with enough fish to feed the whole Clan. 

Emberdawn blinked at her. “How can we stop it?” 

Reedtail’s pelt was bushed with anger. “We could chase 
it away.” 

“We can’t chase a Twoleg away,” Mosspelt mewed. “It’s 
huge.” 


“We could lead it into the forest and push its stick in the 
water,” Frogleap suggested. 

“Or we could steal its fish.” Leopardfur lifted her tail. 

Emberdawn looked surprised. “How?” 

Leopardfur glanced toward the brightly colored den. 
“We just have to distract it for long enough to take the fish 
from the container.” 

The patrol stared at her in disbelief, but Frogleap’s eyes 
brightened. “That’s a great idea.” 

Mosspelt looked puzzled. “How do we distract it?” 

“You can attack the den with Frogleap, Emberdawn, and 
Reedtail,” Leopardfur told her. “That will get the Twoleg 
away from the container, and P'll steal the fish.” 

“Tt sounds dangerous.” Mosspelt frowned. 

“Twolegs are slow.” Reedtail kneaded the ground 
eagerly. “And there are five of us and only one of them.” 

Emberdawn licked her lips. “It’s worth trying,” she 
mewed. “We wouldn’t even have to get our paws wet.” 

Frogleap was looking thoughtful. “You’ll need help to 
steal the fish,” he told Leopardfur. 

“Tll be okay—” 

He interrupted. “Pll help Leopardfur” He looked at 
Mosspelt. “Okay?” 

She blinked at him, anxiety flashing in her eyes. “Okay,” 
she mewed quietly. 

Despite herself, Leopardfur felt a flash of satisfaction as 


Frogleap headed down the bank and crept behind the grass 
edging the beach. 

“Be careful,” she warned the others. “Run into the forest 
as soon as the Twoleg gets close to you.” She hurried after 
Frogleap as he slipped behind the brightly colored den and 
hid with him behind a rock a tail-length away from the 
container. The Twoleg’s gaze was on the thread as it dangled 
in the water, absorbed in watching it drift in the current. 

Reedtail, Mosspelt, and Emberdawn were slinking 
toward the brightly colored den. As Leopardfur waited for 
them to take their positions, she breathed in Frogleap’s 
scent. The familiarity made her heart ache. It had been a long 
time since she’d felt the warmth of his pelt against hers. Had 
she made the right decision? 

Frogleap nudged her. “Ready?” 

“Ready.” The patrol had reached the den. They looked at 
her expectantly, and she unsheathed her claws. She flicked 
her tail, signaling them to start. 

Reedtail reached up and, with a yowl, hooked his claws 
into the den wall and tugged. Mosspelt and Emberdawn 
clawed at it, spitting as though attacking a badger. 

The Twoleg’s flat face stiffened. Its sunken eyes 
widened, and it snapped its head around. The den quivered 
behind it, the thin walls flopping in and out like river weed 
caught in a current. The Twoleg hopped to its hind paws, 
yelping as it saw the warrior patrol tearing at its shelter. 


“Quick!” Leopardfur leaped for the container and, 
rearing onto her hind legs, reached inside. She hooked her 
claws into one of the squirming fish and tried to haul it out. 
But it was too heavy to lift alone. “Help me,” she mewed 
Frogleap. 

He’d already reached in and snagged the fish and was 
trying to drag it over the edge of the container. Panicked, the 
fish thrashed free of their grip. Leopardfur grabbed at 
another, trying to keep her balance as she tottered on her 
hind legs. She hadn’t expected fish that had already been 
caught to fight so hard. 

The Twoleg was flapping its arms at Emberdawn. 
Hopping from one leg to the other, it yelped and howled like 
a dog, then swiped uselessly at the patrol, not daring to get 
too close as they ripped at the den wall. 

Leopardfur leaned further into the container, straining on 
her hind paws as she fought to grab another fish. “Grab 
one!” 

But Frogleap had frozen, his paws hanging stiffly over 
the edge. 

“Help me grab one!” She tried to catch his eye, but 
Frogleap was staring at the rest of their patrol. His pelt 
spiked with alarm and Leopardfur followed his gaze. The 
Twoleg had picked up a stick. It was thick and had a curved 
spike like a claw on the end. He lifted it above his head and 
swung it toward Reedtail. 


“Run!” Leopardfur yowled. 

Reedtail leaped backward just in time as the hook 
swished past him, a whisker away. He raced for the trees. 
Emberdawn chased after him, her eyes wide with panic as 
she glanced over her shoulder at the Twoleg’s stick. It 
swished through the air behind them. 

“Mosspelt!” Frogleap’s terrified wail shrilled in 
Leopardfur’s ear. 

Mosspelt was trying to drag her claws free of the den 
wall, but she was stuck, and she pulled in vain, the brightly 
colored wall stretching as she pulled, but refusing to tear. 
The Twoleg lifted the stick once again and began to swing it 
toward her. 

Frogleap wheeled away and charged toward the Twoleg 
like a hawk. He slammed into the back of the Twoleg’s hind 
paws, unbalancing it, and as it staggered to keep its footing, 
he leaped to Mosspelt’s side and ripped at the den wall with 
his teeth. Mosspelt pulled free and pelted away as the 
Twoleg regained its balance. It started after her, but she was 
almost at the trees. 

Leopardfur snapped her attention back to the fish. She 
had to catch one. This had been her plan. She couldn’t let it 
fail now. She leaped in, all four paws sinking between the 
wriggling fish, and threw her forepaws around one. It was a 
salmon and it was huge, but she held on to it as it struggled 
to escape. Pushing up with her hind legs, she tried to lift it 


over the side. The container began to tip, and she held her 
breath, still gripping the salmon as it thumped onto its side 
and Leopardfur and the fish spilled out onto the pebbles. 
Water splashed up her nose and into her eyes. But she 
didn’t let go of the salmon. Instead she pressed it to the 
ground as she found her hind paws, and sank her teeth into 
its spine to kill it. 

“Get out of there!” Frogleap’s yowl made her look up. He 
was pelting toward her, the Twoleg lumbering after with its 
Stick. 

Leopardfur froze. She had to get her catch back to camp. 
As the other fish flapped desperately around her, she caught 
Frogleap’s eye. He slowed, as though reading her thoughts, 
and grabbed the tail of the salmon and began to help her 
drag it across the shore. 

Leopardfur’s heart was pounding so hard she thought it 
would burst, but she couldn’t let go, even as the Twoleg 
thundered closer. Together they hauled the salmon away 
from the mess of floundering fish. The Twoleg thundered 
toward them, its stick slicing the air. If they could get the fish 
into the river, the Twoleg wouldn’t follow, surely! But the 
water’s edge was a tail-length away. Could they reach it 
before the Twoleg’s stick reached them? 

She pulled harder, bumping the fish over the pebbles. 
The Twoleg’s eyes flashed with fury. It raised the stick and 
prepared to bring it crashing down on top of them. 


Then its gaze flitted over the rest of its catch. The other 
fish were flapping desperately over the pebbles, getting 
nearer and nearer to the water’s edge. The Twoleg’s tiny 
eyes widened in alarm. It threw the stick, grabbed the 
container, and, dropping onto its haunches, began to grab 
desperately at the escaping prey. 

Leopardfur tugged harder on the huge salmon. Frogleap 
bumped against her as together they tugged it to the water. 
After wading into the shallows, they plunged into the 
central current and, holding the salmon firmly between them, 
carried it to the far side. 

She was panting as they hauled it between the reeds 
onto the grass on the opposite bank. She dropped it and sat 
back to catch her breath. 

Frogleap collapsed beside her. “We did it!” He sounded 
exhilarated. 

“Where’s our patrol?” Leopardfur pushed her way back 
through the reeds and scanned the river. She felt a rush of 
relief as she saw three heads bobbing through the water 
toward her. Reedtail was the first to climb out, Emberdawn 
and Mosspelt behind him, and they pushed through the 
reeds, onto the grass. 

She followed them. “Are you all okay?” 

“We’re fine,” Emberdawn puffed. 

Frogleap hurried to Mosspelt’s side and leaned down to 
inspect the claw that had been caught in the den wall. “Is it 


tom?” he asked anxiously. 

“No,” she reassured him. She gave her paw a lick, but 
Frogleap tugged it toward him and began to wash it gently 
for her. 

Mosspelt glanced at himshyly and looked away. 

Leopardfur’s heart twisted to see how deeply they cared 
for each other. Once, he’d looked at her that way. She closed 
her eyes for a moment as sadness swamped her. Then she 
shook out her fur. This was what she’d chosen. She wasn’t 
going to regret it. Or resent Frogleap and Mosspelt for 
finding love where she’d left it. She shook out her pelt. 
“Let’s get this back to camp.” 

Reedtail’s eyes were shining. “Wait till we tell the Clan 
we outsmarted a Twoleg!” 

Leopardfur looked at him, stiffening. “We can’t.” 

He frowned. “Why not? 

Leopardfur’s pelt pricked. “If we tell them, other cats 
might try it,” she told him. 

“Tt was pretty dangerous,” Frogleap agreed. “Mosspelt 
could have been killed.” 

“We got away with it.” Leopardfur swished her tail. “But 
what if an apprentice tries to do the same? They might not 
be so lucky.” 

Reedtail dipped his head. “I guess you’re right.” 

Emberdawn frowned. “Are we going to lie and tell them 
we caught it?” 


“Isn’t that better than encouraging our Clanmates to 
take risks?” Leopardfur met her gaze. 

“T guess,” she conceded. 

Frogleap glanced at the salmon. “I don’t like lying to the 
Clan, but if it means saving our Clanmates from getting hurt 
in the future .. .” His mew trailed away as though he wasn’t 
totally sure. 

“It's for the best.” Leopardfur lifted her chin. “Besides, 
this fish will feed half the Clan, and feeding the Clan is more 
important than anything.” 

Mosspelt glanced at Frogleap, as though looking for 
reassurance. 

He blinked at her warmly. “Let’s get it back to camp,” he 
mewed, leaning down to grab the salmon’s spine between 
his jaws. 


Leopardfur’s neck ached by the time they dropped the 
salmon beside the fresh-kill pile. It was heavy even with 
Frogleap, Emberdawn, and Reedtail helping to carry it. The 
few birds and fish brought back by the other hunting patrols 
looked small beside it. But the effort of carrying it home was 
repaid by the mews of admiration from their Clanmates. 

“How did you catch such a big fish?” Softwing paced 
around it, her tail twitching with excitement. 

Rippleclaw licked his lips. “StarClan was on your side 
today, Leopardfur.” 

She shifted her paws self-consciously. Perhaps StarClan 


had guided them to the Twoleg’s den. 

Crookedstar padded into camp, a sparrow between his 
jaws. Shimmerpelt, Ottersplash, and Piketooth followed him. 
The RiverClan leader was the only cat carrying prey. 

He dropped it on the fresh-kill pile and nodded at the 
salmon. “Did you catch that in the gorge?” 

“Upstream,” Leopardfur told him. 

“Near the bulrushes,” Reedtail added. 

“Good teamwork.” Crookedstar looked impressed. “It 
must have taken at least two of you catch it.” 

Leopardfur glanced at Frogleap and Mosspelt. “It took 
the whole patrol,” she mewed. 

Heavypaw and Shadepaw pushed between their 
Clanmates and began sniffing it. 

“We didn’t see any salmon that big in the gorge,” 
Heavypaw mewed. 

“Can Ihave a bite?” Shadepaw mewed hungrily. 

“Take some to Birdsong and Tanglewhisker,” 
Crookedstar told her. 

Eagerly, the dark gray apprentice sank her teeth into the 
salmon’s cheek and began to pull away a lump of flesh. 
“Ouch!” She flinched and jerked away with a yelp and 
swiped her tongue around her jaws. “It bit me!” she wailed. 

Leopardfur’s tail twitched with alarm. Blood was welling 
on the young she-cat’s lip. She looked at the salmon, 
wondering what had happened. It was definitely dead. What 


could have hurt the apprentice? Guilt sparked in her pelt. 

Crookedstar sniffed gingerly at the salmon’s cheek, then 
picked at it with a claw. Gingerly, he drew out a long, silver 
thom. It was curved and barbed at the end. Leopardfur’s 
pelt grew hot. The Twoleg must have used the claw to hook 
the salmon from the water. She glanced at Crookedstar, 
wondering if he’d guess. She could tell at once that he had. 

His whiskers twitched. Amusement sparkled in his eyes. 
“So you caught this in the river, did you?” 

Leopardfur looked at her paws. “Sort of,” she mumbled. 

Frogleap lifted his chin stiffly. “We stole it from a 
Twoleg,” he confessed. “It was dangerous and we didn’t 
want to encourage the others to try it.” He looked gravely at 
Shadepaw and Heavypaw. “Mosspelt nearly got killed.” 

Mosspelt blinked at her Clanmates. “It wasn’t that bad,” 
she mewed quickly. “And Frogleap saved me.” 

Leopardfur whisked her tail. “The Twoleg had stolen a 
pondful of fish from the river,’ she mewed. “We were just 
taking back what’s ours.” 

“Twolegs!” Ottersplash fluffed out her fur indignantly. 
“They’re always taking what doesn’t belong to them.” 

Piketooth nodded at Leopardfur. “You did well to get it 
back.” 

Murmurs of approval rippled around the cats. 

Leopardfur felt relieved. “I didn’t like lying,’ she 
admitted. “But I wanted to protect my Clanmates. It’s a risky 


way to hunt.” 

Crookedstar blinked at her. “Next time, let me decide 
what the Clan should be told.” 

She dipped her head apologetically. 

Crookedstar inspected the fish and tore a lump of flesh 
from the salmon’s flank. He tossed it to Shadepaw. “Take 
this to Birdsong and Tanglewhisker,” he mewed again. 

As Shadepaw picked it up and hurried away, the 
RiverClan leader began to tear up the salmon and pass the 
pieces among his Clanmates. They carried them to the edges 
of the clearing and settled down to eat. 

Leopardfur stayed beside the fresh-kill pile, pleased by 
the sight of her Clanmates eating. There’d be no empty 
bellies tonight. She watched Frogleap and Mosspelt pad to a 
patch of grass beside the camp wall and settle down with a 
lump of salmon. She couldn’t help but remember the warmth 
of Frogleap’s pelt as he’d crouched beside her. She ignored 
the faint ache in her heart, embarrassed by the hope she’d 
felt when he’d joined her plan so enthusiastically. Of course 
he preferred Mosspelt. She could give him all the time and all 
the kits he wanted. And she was gentle and pretty. 

But Iwas his first choice. The thought soothed her. He’d 
loved her once, and that would have to be enough. It’ more 
important that I concentrate on becoming leader one day, 
for RiverClan 5 sake. 

“Leopardfur.” Crookedstar’s mew cut into her thoughts. 


He was beckoning her away from the fresh-kill pile with his 
tail. 

He led her to his den and nodded her inside. Leopardfur 
entered, puzzled. Why did he want to speak to her privately? 

“Is something wrong?” she asked as he followed her 
inside. It was warmer here, the willow walls sheltering them 
from the cold wind. 

He blinked at her, his green eyes glittering in the shadow. 
“Did you see anything strange while you were out 
hunting?” 

Her pelt twitched nervously. “Only a ShadowClan patrol 
hunting in the forest, but they’re allowed to, so I didn’t 
challenge them.” 

Crookedstar looked away with a soft grunt. He looked 
worried. 

“What’s happened?” she pressed. “Have you decided to 
stop them hunting on our land?” Her heart quickened with 
hope. At last! 

“Not yet.” He met her gaze solemnly. “Brokenstar has 
been chased out of ShadowClan.” 

She stiffened, surprised. “Chased out?” 

“ThunderClan joined together with his own Clanmates to 
drive him away,” he told her. “Brokenstar’s a rogue now, and 
Nightpelt will become ShadowClan’s new leader.” 

Nightpelt? But Leopardfur’s mind leaped past that news 
to something more important. “That means our agreement 


with Brokenstar doesn’t hold anymore,” she mewed, her 
heart lifting. “ShadowClan will have to stop hunting on our 
land!” She looked eagerly at Crookedstar. “When will you 
tell the Clan?” she asked. “We’ll need to organize more 
border patrols and tell everyone to be on alert. Ican—” 

Crookedstar’s gaze sharpened. “It means nothing yet,” 
he told her “Only that we should wait and see what 
happens.” 

“Wait?” What was he talking about? “It’s time to act. 
We have to show ShadowClan and ThunderClan that we’re 
strong.” 

“Let’s see how things pan out before we start making 
decisions,” Crookedstar told her. “We should keep this 
between ourselves for now. Nothing has changed for us. 
RiverClan is safe.” 

“But for how long?” 

“Let’s not cross that river before we reach it.” 
Crookedstar padded past her. “I’m going to try some of that 
tasty salmon you brought home.” 

She watched him duck out of the den, belly chuming 
with worry. RiverClan, safe? If ThunderClan and 
ShadowClan were working together, RiverClan was about as 
safe as kit in a foxden. 





CHAPTER 10 
+ 


The next morning, the chill had given way to milder 
weather. The reeds were limp, wilting after the frost, and the 
camp smelled of mud and mildew once more. Heavypaw and 
Shadepaw were carrying fresh moss to the elders’ den. 
Mudfur was high in the willow tree, gathering cobwebs from 
between the branches. Leopardfur had sent out a border 
patrol and two hunting patrols and set Mosspelt to work 
with Blackclaw and Sedgecreek, strengthening the nursery 
walls with thick bunches of reeds. 

There was a reason Leopardfur wanted Mosspelt to stay 
in camp. She was worried that her jealousy yesterday had 
been obvious. Embarrassment warmed her pelt. She needed 
to show both Mosspelt and Frogleap that she was fine with 
whatever relationship they had. 

She looked across the clearing and caught Mosspelt’s 
eye, beckoning her with a flick of her tail. 

Mosspelt left the willow stems she’d been weaving into 
the side of the nursery and hurried across the camp. “What 
is it?” she asked as she neared. 

Leopardfur guided her to a quiet spot beside the sedge 
wall. “Do you want to help me bring back another fish for 
the Clan?” she mewed softly. 

“Hunting?” Mosspelt looked delighted. “Sure.” 


“Just the two of us. We could steal another fish from the 
Twoleg.” Leopardfur blinked at her. “It’s our fish, after all.” 

“But you said it was dangerous.” 

“Maybe for apprentices.” Leopardfur glanced at 
Heavypaw, who was dragging old bedding from the elders’ 
den. “But we're warriors, and we’ve done it before, so it'll be 
simpler this time.” Leopardfur didn’t plan to haul fish out of 
the container. Now she knew it was easier to tip it over and 
let the fish tumble out. “Of course, with just two of us in the 
patrol, we’ll have to steal a smaller fish.” That didn’t matter. 
All that mattered was that Frogleap would see she liked 
Mosspelt enough to take her on a special mission. It would 
show him she wasn’t jealous at all. 

Mosspelt’s eyes glittered nervously. “Do you really 
think we can do it by ourselves?” 

“Of course.” Leopardfur headed toward the entrance. 

Mosspelt followed. “Do you want me to shake the 
Twoleg’s den like last time?” 

“No.” That had been too dangerous. “We’ll wait for the 
Twoleg to get distracted by something else. We won’t need 
much time to knock the container over and take a fish.” 

“Okay.” Mosspelt lifted her muzzle and looked more 
determined. “Frogleap will be pleased that we’ve taken back 
another fish.” 

Leopardfur flicked her tail. And that I invited you to help 
me, she thought. 


At the shore, they crouched in the bushes at the edge of 
the trees. Leopardfur was glad to see that the Twoleg was 
back, sitting on a stump beside the water, dangling a thread 
from a stick. Its brightly colored den hadn’t moved, though 
there was a patch covering the tears the patrol had made 
yesterday. She guessed the Twoleg wouldn’t be expecting 
them. It would think they’d be too scared to return. Besides, 
they’d be smarter and quicker today. It would be too slow to 
stop them from taking another fish. 

The container was sitting beside it, and she could see 
dark shapes moving inside; the Twoleg had collected quite a 
feast for itself. Surely it wouldn’t miss a few. ... 

“Is it playing dead?” Mosspelt was watching the 
Twoleg, which sat unmoving, its small eyes gazing dully 
ahead. 

“Tt must be trying to fool the fish,” Leopardfur guessed. 
Looking at the full container, she had to concede that the 
Twoleg might be cleverer than it looked. 

Mosspelt stiffened beside her. “It’s moving!” 

Leopardfur’s heart quickened as the Twoleg rested its 
stick against a stone and got to its hind paws. It turned 
toward the den and disappeared inside. She held her breath, 
expecting it to pad out again, but it didn’t. Instead, the den 
trembled as though the Twoleg was busy with something 
inside. 

“Quick!” She darted forward, haring down the bank and 


over the pebbles, running as lightly as she could so that she 
made no sound. 

Her pelt rippled with surprise as Mosspelt raced past her. 
Before she’d even reached the den, the lithe tortoiseshell 
had swerved around it and grabbed the edge of the 
container. She hauled it over with a thump, leaping clear as 
water and fish sloshed out. Leopardfur was impressed, and 
had to admit that she could see why Frogleap liked 
Mosspelt. The she-cat was surprisingly brave. She didn’t 
even glance at the brightly colored den; as Leopardfur raced 
to catch up, she was already grabbing one of the fish that 
had spilled onto the pebbles. 

“Wait for—” Leopardfur choked back the rest of her cry 
as the den shivered and the Twoleg lunged out. It was 
holding a long stick with a heavy web at the end. Horror 
surged in her belly as the webbing billowed down toward 
Mosspelt. 

Mosspelt looked up, still holding the fish, her eyes 
widening in terror as the webbing ballooned around her and 
trapped her inside. She dropped the fish and tore at the web. 
Her shriek of panic rang across the shore as the Twoleg 
raised the stick and scooped Mosspelt into the air. 

Leopardfur backed away as Mosspelt’s panicked gaze 
flashed toward her. She could hardly breathe. She was as 
helpless as Mosspelt, who was thrashing like a fish in the 
web, only managing to tangle herself deeper into its folds. 


What have I done? 

“Run!” Mosspelt screeched. “Leave me! Just run!” 

Leopardfur hesitated. Should she leave? She was deputy 
—how could she let one of their strongest warriors get taken 
by Twolegs? And yet, as Mosspelt struggled, Leopardfur 
had to admit that she had no idea how to free the she-cat. / 
need help, she realized with dismay. Yowling to Mosspelt 
that she’d be back, she pelted for the woods. She ran into 
the shelter of the trees and glanced back at the shore, 
snarling under her breath. She could see the Twoleg carrying 
the webbed stick into its brightly colored den. “Fox-heart!” 
It wasn’t enough to steal RiverClan’s fish; this Twoleg 
wanted to steal its warriors, too? She felt sick. Would it hurt 
Mosspelt now that it had caught her? It must be angry 
about the stolen fish. Would it take its rage out on her? 

She began to run. She had to get home. She had to get 
help. 

Crookedstar looked up as she burst through the 
entrance tunnel. He scrambled to his paws, leaving the trout 
he’d been sharing with Voleclaw and Cedarpelt, and hurried 
to meet her. Outside the elders’ den, Tanglewhisker stopped 
washing and looked up, his eyes sharp with curiosity. 
Leopardfur forced her fur to smooth, glancing self 
consciously around the clearing as her Clanmates shared 
tongues. She was relieved that most of them seemed too 
occupied to have noticed her. 


As Crookedstar reached her, she dropped her mew to a 
whisper. “Mosspelt has been caught by a Twoleg.” She 
swallowed back guilt. Why had she suggested such a 
dangerous mission? Why in StarClan had she thought it was 
a good idea to return to the Twoleg’s camp? 

Crookedstar guided her quickly to one side of the 
warriors’ den, out of earshot of their Clanmates. 
Tanglewhisker’s eyes narrowed for a moment, then he 
returned to his washing. “Tell me what happened,” 
Crookedstar ordered. 

“We went to steal another fish.” 


“But—” 
Leopardfur cut him off. “I know,” she mewed quickly. “It 
was dangerous. I just wanted .. .” She hesitated. She 


couldn’t admit that she’d taken Mosspelt there just to prove 
she wasn’t jealous. What kind of deputy would put a 
Clanmate at risk just to save her own pride? Her pelt burned 
with shame. “I thought it would be okay,” she mewed. 
“We’d done it before and I figured it would be easier this 
time. But the Twoleg had a web and he caught Mosspelt in it 
and took her into his den.” 

The warriors’ den rustled suddenly, and Frogleap burst 
out. He must have been listening through the wall. He 
rounded on her, eyes wide with horror. “How could you do 
something so dangerous?” 

She recoiled. “I’m sorry. I” 


He went on, spitting with fury. “Why would you take her 
there? Didn’t you care if she got hurt?” 

She bristled. Of course she cared! Mosspelt was a 
Clanmate. And a warrior. He was acting as though 
Leopardfur had lured a helpless kit to the Twoleg camp. “We 
were fetching food for our Clan,” she snapped defensively. 
“Why shouldn’t I take her?” 

Frogleap was trembling now. His blazing anger seemed 
to crumble into a heap of ash. “Because she’s carrying my 
kits,” he said, his voice raw with emotion. 

Leopardfur stared at him, as shocked as if he’d lashed 
out at her with claws. His kits? She’d never imagined they 
were already mates. Her heart seemed to drop through her 
chest. [havent stopped loving him. The realization stopped 
her breath. Had she secretly been hoping they’d have a 
future together after all? That he’d get over Mosspelt? That 
his affection for the tortoiseshell was only a passing 
flirtation? Heat flashed through her fur. J chose the Clan, not 
him, she reminded herself fiercely. She was deputy. She’d be 
leader one day. That was all she’d ever dreamed of. 

And that meant she wasn’t going to let one of her 
Clanmates get hurt, especially not one who was carrying 
RiverClan kits. 

She looked at Crookedstar. “I’m going back to get her,” 
she mewed. 

“You’re not going alone,” Crookedstar told her. “Take 


Voleclaw and Cedarpelt.” 

“Pm going too,” Frogleap growled. 

Crookedstar met his gaze. “You’re staying here,” he told 
the gray tom. “You won’t be thinking clearly, and this is a 
dangerous mission. Leave it to Leopardfur.” 

Frogleap stiffened. “But—” 

“If any cat can rescue her, it’s Leopardfur.” Crookedstar 
looked at her. “If you’re not back by nightfall, Pll send 
another patrol.” 

“You won't need to Determination hardened 
Leopardfur’s heart and sent energy sparking through her 
pelt. She was going to rescue Mosspelt even if it meant 
risking her life. She glanced at Frogleap. The anger in his 
gaze was sharper than claws. “Dll bring her back.” 

She signaled to Wleclaw and Cedarpelt, who leaped up 
from their meal and crossed the clearing. “We’re going to 
save Mosspelt,” she told them, heading for the entrance. 

As she led them to the riverbank, she explained what had 
happened, pushing away the memory of the look Frogleap 
had given her and the knowledge that he was father to 
Mosspelt’s kits. She would focus on fixing this. She would 
get Mosspelt home. 

“That must be her yowling,” Voleclaw whispered as they 
crouched behind the ferns edging the shore. 

They were staring at the Twoleg den. Low cries sounded 
through its thin walls. Mosspelt sounded frightened, but 





” 


still angry enough to fight. Good. Leopardfur felt a glimmer 
of hope. 

“How do we get her out?” Cedarpelt asked. 

Leopardfur scanned the den, realizing with a flash of 
excitement that there was a gap at the bottom. “The wall is 
thin enough to bend,” she mewed, remembering how easily 
Mosspelt and the others had torn at it yesterday. “If we can 
get our noses through the gap at the bottom, we’ll be able to 
squeeze underneath.” 

Cedarpelt squinted past the den, his pelt prickling 
nervously. “There’s a monster here.” 

Leopardfur followed his gaze. A Thunderpath monster 
sat silently on the shore a tree-length from the den. 

“It's asleep,” Leopardfur told him. Lets hope it stays that 
way. 

“Where’s the Twoleg?” Wleclaw asked. 

As he spoke, it emerged from the front of the den and 
stalked toward the monster. 

“Quick!” Seeing her chance, Leopardfur dived forward 
and ran to the den wall. She pushed a paw underneath, 
relieved to feel how light it felt. It was easy to pry open. She 
made a gap and thrust her muzzle through, then scrabbled 
undemeath and burst into the den. 

She blinked to adjust to the weirdly orange gloom as 
Cedarpelt and Wleclaw wriggled after her. 

“Leopardfur!” Mosspelt hissed from a corner of the den. 


She was still trapped in the webbing. “I can’t get out.” 

Leopardfur darted toward her and examined the webbing, 
following the threads until she found where they were 
bunched together, tied by some kind of thick vine. If she 
could break through that, she could open it. “Watch out for 
the Twoleg,” she told Cedarpelt. 

As he darted to the entrance of the den and peered out, 
Voleclaw hurried to Leopardfur’s side. 

“Help Mosspelt untangle herself,” she told him. She 
began to gnaw through the cord as Voleclaw hooked the 
webbing with his claws, lifting it carefully so that Mosspelt 
could free her paws from its folds. She looked up at 
Cedarpelt. “Where’s the Twoleg?” 

“Beside the monster,” he mewed. 

Leopardfur’s heart was pounding in her chest. She 
began gnawing at the thread again, relieved as it started to 
fray. She tugged, then gnawed again, feeling it grow thinner 
and thinner until, at last, it snapped. Excitement surged in 
her belly. She tugged it open and began pulling at the 
webbing to open a tunnel to let Mosspelt through. 

“The Twoleg’s coming!” Cedarpelt’s alarmed mew set her 
pelt bristling. Her claws caught in the webbing, and panic 
sparked through her as she fought to get them free. 

Mosspelt was nosing her way forward, wriggling like a 
newborn kit as she pushed her way out of the tangled 
webbing. Cedarpelt was backing away from the entrance, his 


hackles high and a low growl rolling in his throat. 

Leopardfur gave the webbing another tug, relief flooding 
her as her claws came free, and she opened a space for 
Mosspelt to slide through. The tortoiseshell squirmed free, 
kicking out with her hind legs to throw off the last folds of 
the webbing. 

“Let’s get out of here.” Leopardfur nodded the others 
toward the gap beneath the den wall. Wleclaw pushed it 
open with his muzzle and held it while Mosspelt squeezed 
her way out. 

“You next.” Leopardfur could hardly hear her own mew 
over the roarmg of blood in her ears as she nudged 
Cedarpelt toward the gap. She could hear the Twoleg now, 
its massive paws crunching over the pebbles. Cedarpelt 
scooted out, and Leopardfur prodded Wleclaw after him. As 
he disappeared, she heard a howl behind her and turned. 

The Twoleg was standing in the entrance, glowering. It 
lunged toward her, its paws flying at her She reared and, 
hissing defiantly, lashed out at it. She felt its flesh tear 
beneath her claws and, with a yelp, it shrank back and stared 
at her in shock. As it hesitated, she turned and shoved her 
muzzle beneath the gap in the wall. Terror throbbed in her 
chest while she forced her way through. Exploding from the 
other side, she glanced around, relieved to see Wleclaw and 
Mosspelt already racing for the ferns. 

Cedarpelt was waiting for her. “Are you okay?” 


“Yes.” She flicked her tail. “Let’s get out of here.” 

He turned and fled across the shore. Pebbles cracked 
beneath her paws as she raced after him. The Twoleg was 
howling behind her, and as she dived through the ferns, she 
glanced backward. It was thundering after the patrol, its face 
dark with fury, anger glittering in its sunken eyes. 

“Keep running!” she yowled, haring after Mosspelt, 
Voleclaw, and Cedarpelt as they crashed through the ferns. 
They leaped up the bank and raced into the forest. She 
pelted after them, her paws buming as she pushed hard 
against the forest floor. She didn’t dare look back. 

“This way.” She raced ahead and led the patrol along a 
trail that dipped through bracken and swerved past brambles 
until she felt sure they’d lost the Twoleg. 

She slowed and turned. Mosspelt scrambled to a halt 
beside her. Wleclaw and Cedarpelt pulled up, panting. 

Voleclaw looked back and tasted the air. “We’ve outrun 
it.” 

Mosspelt staggered. 

“Are you hurt?” Leopardfur blinked at her in alarm. 

Mosspelt lifted her forepaw. It was swollen. “It got 
caught in the web,” she mewed. “I think it’s sprained.” 

Leopardfur met her gaze. “I’m sorry,” she breathed. “I 
should never have taken you back there.” 

“The Clan was hungry,” Mosspelt told her. There was no 
reproach in her eyes. “And we needed to show that Twoleg 


that those fish are ours.” 

When they reached the camp, Frogleap was pacing 
outside the entrance tunnel. His eyes lit up as he saw 
Mosspelt limping toward him. He hurried to meet her, 
pushing Wleclaw out of the way and taking her weight. 

Leopardfur felt a rush of sadness. He hadn’t even looked 
at her. 

Lakeshine was rummaging through the fresh-kill pile as 
they padded into camp. She lifted her head, her ears pricking 
eagerly as she saw Mosspelt limping toward the medicine 
den. “You rescued her.” She purred and hurried to greet 
Cedarpelt, touching her nose to his. 

Crookedstar was pacing the clearing. He tumed, relief 
flooding his gaze. “Is she okay?” 

“Just a sprain, I think,” Leopardfur told him. “PI let you 
know more when Mudfur’s checked her over.” Mosspelt and 
Frogleap had already disappeared into the medicine den, and 
she hurried after them. 

“Well done,” Crookedstar called after her. 

“Thanks.” Guilt jabbed her belly. If she hadn’t taken 
Mosspelt to the Twoleg camp, they wouldn’t have needed 
to mount a rescue mission. She ducked into the medicine 
den. 

Her father was examining Mosspelt’s paw. “Some 
comfrey should ease it, and an oak-leaf poultice,” he mewed, 
heading for his herb store. 


Leopardfur padded to her side. “How are you feeling?” 
Her gaze flitted to Mosspelt’s belly. 

Mosspelt shifted self-consciously. “I’m okay.” 

“You’re trembling.” Frogleap pressed his nose to her 
cheek anxiously. “You should rest.” 

Mudfur glanced over his shoulder. “She’s probably 
suffering from shock,” he mewed. “Help her settle into a 
nest.” 

Frogleap began to nose Mosspelt into the nearest nest. 
As she circled clumsily down into the reeds, he flashed 
Leopardfur a reproachful look. “She could have been killed!” 
He padded toward her, hackles lifting. “She could have lost 
the kits. And for what? To steal an extra fish off a Twoleg? 
Was it really worth it?” 

Leopardfur’s mouth grew dry. She’d made a mistake. 
Would it help if she admitted it? “I just—” 

“Don’t be so hard on her.” Mosspelt looked at Frogleap. 
“She saved me.” 

“She’s the one who got you caught!” Frogleap mewed 
sharply. 

Mosspelt’s gaze hardened. “She didn’t force me to go,” 
she mewed. “I wanted to. I want to feed my Clan like every 
other warrior, and I may be expecting our kits, but I’m not in 
the nursery yet.” She turned her face toward Leopardfur. 
“Thank you,” she mewed. “It was brave of you to come back 
for me.” 





“Tcouldn’t leave you there,” Leopardfur told her. 

“But you risked your life to save me.” Mosspelt blinked. 
“Please thank Cedarpelt and Wleclaw too.” 

“I will” Leopardfur felt a rush of warmth toward the 
tortoiseshell. She dipped her head, glancing at Mudfur as 
she backed toward the entrance. “PI leave you in peace. Let 
me know how she is when you’ve finished treating her.” 

“Sure.” Mudfur blinked at her reassuringly. “I’m glad 
you're safe.” His eyes glowed for a moment, then he turned 
back to his herb store. 

Leopardfur ducked out of the medicine den. It warmed 
her pelt to hear that small reassurance from Mudfur. She’d 
struggled to accept that he would never see the world the 
same way she did, and she still carried a wound in her heart 
knowing that he couldn’t support her in her new position. 
But he was her father, and he cared about her, even if they 
couldn’t agree. 

On the other paw, she knew it would be a while before 
Frogleap forgave her. But she’d tried her best to put things 
right. Perhaps one day he’d see that. 

Outside, sunshine had begun to glimmer between the 
clouds. Leopardfur paused. A thought had been nagging her 
all the way back to camp. Why had she made such a risky 
decision in the first place? She knew well that a smart warrior 
stayed clear of Twolegs, and yet she’d taken two patrols to 
steal from them. She frowned. Why hadn’t she been able to 


resist the lure of a successful hunt? It wasn’t greed that had 
driven her. Or laziness. Only the knowledge that leaf-bare 
would be here before they knew it, and prey would become 
scarce. In another few moons, her Clanmates could be 
hungry. They needed all the prey they could get. But how 
could they catch enough with ShadowClan and Twolegs 
stealing from them and ThunderClan pressing at their 
borders? 

She had to persuade Crookedstar that RiverClan had no 
choice but to reclaim the land they’d lost to ThunderClan 
and start chasing ShadowClan off their territory. It was the 
only way to make sure the Clan survived. 





CHAPTER 11 
Se 


Leopardfur glanced up at the night sky. Her Clanmates were 
sleeping. Soft snores rose from the dens. Clouds hid the 
moon. Rain was on its way, and the river would be swollen 
by morning. 

She felt a prickle of frustration. In the days since she’d 
rescued Mosspelt, she hadn’t found the right opportunity to 
speak with Crookedstar about reclaiming RiverClan’s 
territory. Perhaps it was better this way. He hadn’t taken her 
advice before. 

She crossed the clearing, padding away from the 
medicine den where she’d peeked in to check on Mosspelt. 
The queen had been sleeping, Frogleap dozing beside her 
nest, his chin resting on the side. Mudfur had been hardly 
visible in the shadows, but she’d seen his eyes glint as he 
looked up at her from his herbs and blinked softly at her. 
She’d nodded in return and slipped out, not wanting to 
disturb Mosspelt’s rest. 

Now she checked the camp, padding quietly along the 
walls, her mouth open as she tasted the air for anything 
unusual. She’d have to remember to organize a patrol to 
fetch fresh bedding for the nursery and to clear out any 
cobwebs and dusty reeds there, making it ready for 
Mosspelt. It would be good to have kits in camp once more, 


even if they reminded her that Frogleap loved Mosspelt 
now. 

Graypool nodded at her as she neared the entrance. The 
dark gray she-cat, sitting guard with Silverstream, was 
looking old, her pelt flecked with lighter gray hairs. Was it 
time she moved to the elders’ den? Leopardfur decided 
she’d let the warrior decide for herself and nodded in return. 

Silverstream got to her paws as Leopardfur reached 
them. “You should get some rest,” she told Leopardfur. 
“You’ve been awake since before dawn.” 

“I just want to check outside.” Leopardfur knew she 
slept better when she felt sure the camp was safe. 

“Crookedstar’s out there,” Graypool told her. 

Leopardfur’s ears pricked with surprise. She’d thought 
he was asleep in his den. “Has he been there long?” 

Silverstream glanced through the tunnel. “Not long,” she 
mewed. “He said he wanted to stretch his legs.” 

Leopardfur ducked through the reed tunnel, followed the 
grass path beyond, and looked around. Crookedstar was 
sitting at the edge of the river. It flowed past him, the surface 
smooth and dark. He turned as she approached him, his 
green eyes gleaming like minnow pools. “Hey, Leopardfur.” 

“Hi.” She sat beside him and gazed across the river, 
comforted by its soft swirl and whisper. It was a sound she’d 
heard since she was born, and even now it carried with it the 
gentle breathing of her nestmates and the steady beating of 


Shimmerpelt’s heart. “I thought you were asleep.” She 
caught his eye. Would this be a good time to discuss 
ShadowClan? “Is something keeping you awake?” 

“No.” He watched the river. “Mosspelt is safe. Our 
Clanmates have full bellies.’ He paused. “Is something 
keeping you awake?” 

She hesitated. She wouldn’t find a better time than this 
to talk to Crookedstar. She glanced at him. “How long will 
the Clan have full bellies?” 

He stiffened, avoiding the question. “Are you worried 
about leaf-bare?” 

“Td be less worried if we weren’t sharing our hunting 
grounds with ShadowClan.” 

He didn’t look at her. “Pm not going back on the 
agreement I made,” he mewed softly. 

“But you made it with Brokenstar,” she reminded him. 
“And now he’s gone.” 

“We have peace. I don’t want to threaten it.” 

“But it’s getting harder to fill the fresh-kill pile every 
day,” she told him. 

“Is that ShadowClan’s fault?” he mewed. “They’re 
hopeless fishers. They barely take more than three or four 
trout in a moon. And the only land prey they take is fur prey. 
They leave feather prey alone.” 

“They might not hunt it,” Leopardfur pressed, “but they 
scare it away. They’re clumsy hunters. They frighten every 


bird in the forest just to catch a single mouse, and when 
they catch those three or four trout, they splash about so 
much they drive every other fish away.” 

“Perhaps it’s just the price of peace,” Crookedstar 
murmured. 

Leopardfur looked at him. “Our land is slowly being 
stolen,’ she mewed. “ThunderClan has claimed 
Sunningrocks, and ShadowClan uses our territory like they 
own it. What you call peace, the other Clans will call 
weakness. Before long they’ll be claiming more.” 

“We'll cross that river if we come to it.” Crookedstar was 
still gazing across the water. 

How could he be so calm? Didn’t he realize the danger? 
“If we make a stand now, we might never even reach that 
river.” 

He turned his head. His round eyes glittered in the 
darkness. “And what if we make a stand now and find 
ourselves at war?” 

“Then we fight,” she mewed urgently. 

“And what if we lose?” he asked. “Do you think the 
other Clans won’t callus weak then? Do you think they’d be 
happy to stop at stealing Sunningrocks and claiming 
hunting rights? We might lose even more.” 

“Then we mustn’t lose!” He was declaring defeat even 
before he’d tried to win. 

“You can’t guarantee that.” He turned away again. “And 


T'm not willing to take the risk. It’s too great.” 

“Big risks come with big rewards,” she pressed. 

“And even bigger dangers.” His shoulders were stiff, 
and she knew she was wasting her breath. It wasn’t fair to 
RiverClan. They were living like prey, too frightened to leave 
their burrow in case they were eaten, and she feared that as 
long as Crookedstar was leader, nothing would ever change. 


It had rained in the night and the river was high. 
Leopardfur signaled to Rippleclaw with her tail. “Check that 
the Twoleg is gone,” she ordered. “Take Blackclaw with you, 
and Reed—” 

She stopped as Whiteclaw raced into camp, his pelt wet 
from the rain, which was still falling. “Nightpelt’s here!” he 
puffed. “He wants to speak with Crookedstar.” 

Her pelt prickled with alarm as the brown tom skidded to 
a halt in front of her. 

He was scanning the clearing. “Is Crookedstar here?” 

As he spoke, the RiverClan leader pushed through the 
mossy entrance of his den. “Where is he?” 

“I left him beside the bulrushes with Emberdawn and 
Beetlenose,” Whiteclaw told him. “He was waiting for us at 
the border and asked to be escorted to the camp.” 

“Did he say why?” Crookedstar’s eyes glittered with 
curiosity. 

“No.” Whiteclaw shifted his paws excitedly. “He said he 
could only tell you. Will you speak to him?” 


“Yes.” 

As Crookedstar began to follow the brown tom across 
the clearing, Leopardfur whisked her tail. Rippleclaw could 
pick his own patrol. “Take whoever you like,” she told him. 
She hurried after Crookedstar, calling back over her shoulder. 
“But stay clear of the Twoleg if it’s still there. It’s 
dangerous.” 

She caught up to Crookedstar as he ducked out of camp 
and fell in beside him. “Can I join you?” 

“Yes.” He glanced at her. “But when we meet Nightpelt, 
let me do the talking.” 

“Okay.” She felt a prickle of frustration. Would he ever 
trust her to behave like a true deputy? 

They crossed the stepping-stones and headed for the 
bulrushes. 

“I wonder why he’s still called Nightpelt,” she mewed. 

“Perhaps he hasn’t had a chance to travel to the 
Moonstone.” Crookedstar slitted his eyes against the rain. 
“ShadowClan must be a mess if their last leader was chased 
out.” 

Leopardfur wondered what it would take for a Clan to 
drive their leader away. Would Nightpelt tell them, or would 
they have to wait to hear the gossip at the next Gathering? 

The rain was falling harder now, seeping through 
Leopardfur’s pelt. She flattened her ears to keep the water 
out. But, even through the downpour, she could smell 


ShadowClan’s stench before they reached the bend in the 
path. 

As they rounded it, Nightpelt got to his paws. His black 
fur was slicked against his bony frame. His yellow-green 
eyes seemed as bright as primroses. Emberdawn and 
Beetlenose flanked him. They fell back as Crookedstar 
approached. 

Nightpelt dipped his head to the RiverClan leader. 
“Thanks for meeting me.” 

Crookedstar waved Emberdawn, Beetlenose, and 
Whiteclaw away with his tail. Leopardfur hung back, her 
ears pricked. What had brought ShadowClan’s new leader 
here? Was he going to demand even more hunting rights? 
She unsheathed her claws. She knew Crookedstar was 
worried about how she might behave at this meeting, but 
some things were worth getting in trouble over. Even if her 
leader agreed to expand their hunting arrangement, she 
couldn’t let that pass. 

The RiverClan leader waited until the warriors had 
disappeared behind the bulrushes before he spoke. “I’m 
sorry to hear that ShadowClan has been suffering.” 

Nightpelt’s gaze flitted around the small clearing, as 
though he feared being spied on. “Now that Brokenstar is 
gone, things will change.” 

Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. Does that mean you'll 
hunt on your own land instead of ours? 


Crookedstar sat down and folded his tail over his front 
paws. He seemed oblivious to the rain, though it streamed 
from his fur. “I hope that change will bring peace.” 

Leopardfur’s hackles rose. Ask him why he came! 

Nightpelt’s tail was twitching uneasily. “Prey is more 
important than peace. A hungry Clan is a dangerous Clan.” 

Leopardfur curled her claws into the muddy earth. Was 
he planning to demand more rights to RiverClan land? 

Crookedstar didn’t move. “When leaf-bare comes, every 
Clan faces hunger,” he mewed. 

Tell him he needs to get off our land! Anger was 
pressing in Leopardfur’s throat. 

“Indeed.” Nightpelt glanced to where the moor rose and 
disappeared into the low clouds. “But leaf-bare is many 
moons away. And now that WindClan has left, there is more 
hunting land to spare.” 

Leopardfur blinked in surprise. Why hadn’t she thought 
of that? The moorland would be prey-rich if no cat had 
hunted there these past moons. Why let it go to waste? 

Crookedstar gazed calmly at the ShadowClan leader but 
didn’t speak. 

“I came here to propose an alliance,” Nightpelt mewed. 
“T realize that our hunting on your land has caused tension. 
I’m grateful you’ve allowed us to take your prey for as long 
as you have. But even Brokenstar would have admitted that 
it wasn’t a permanent solution.” 


Leopardfur leaned closer. This ShadowClan leader had 
sense. 

He went on. “Now that WindClan is gone, we should 
split the moor between us.” 

Crookedstar was quiet for a moment more. Then he 
spoke carefully, as though measuring his words. “What do 
you think ThunderClan would say?” 

Nightpelt shrugged. “If RiverClan and ShadowClan have 
an alliance, it doesn’t matter what ThunderClan says.” 

“Don’t you think they’d want their share of the land?” 
Crookedstar mewed. 

“Why?” Nightpelt looked at him. “They don’t share a 
border with the moor. Besides, ThunderClan is not as 
pragmatic as us. They’d rather starve than cross a border.” 

Leopardfur bristled. “They crossed our border!” she 
snapped. “They took Sunningrocks.” 

Nightpelt glanced at her “Only because they believe 
Sunningrocks belongs to them.” 

“But it doesn’t—” she began. 

Crookedstar silenced her with a warming look. 
“Sunningrocks is our concern,” he growled. 

She flexed her claws but held her tongue. 

“What do you think of Nightpelt’s plan?” he asked her 
suddenly. 

“Me?” She blinked in surprise. 

“You.” He stared at her expectantly. 





Leopardfur’s pelt warmed with pride. He was actually 
consulting her! “I think it’s a great plan.” She searched his 
gaze. Surely he agreed? 

“I think so, too.” 

As he flicked his gaze back to Nightpelt, she felt a rush 
of jubilation. At last. Crookedstar was planning to expand 
RiverClan’s territory! 

“Moorland prey isn’t to our tastes,” Crookedstar went 
on. “But a hungry warrior can’t be picky.” He got to his 
paws. “Will you start sending patrols to the moor straight 
away?” 

“Not until after the Gathering,” Nightpelt told him. 
“ThunderClan might oppose it.” 

“T thought ThunderClan didn’t matter as long as we were 
working together,” Crookedstar reminded him. 

“They don’t,” Nightpelt mewed. “But I want to feel them 
out first. If they’re going to cause trouble, we should be 
prepared.” 

“If you think they might cause trouble, we should hide 
our alliance from them,” Crookedstar warned. “We don’t 
want to provoke them more than necessary.” 

“Agreed.” Nightpelt dipped his head. “ThunderClan 
thinks our loyalty lies with them, since they helped us chase 
out Brokenstar. It would be wise to let them think we’re 
grateful for their help.” 

Leopardfur swallowed back a growl. She would never 


put her Clan in a position where it had to be grateful. 

Crookedstar turned to leave. “Pll send Whiteclaw to 
escort you to the border,” he told Nightpelt as he padded 
away. As he brushed past Leopardfur, he whispered under 
his breath. “See?” His caught her eye. “Sometimes a leader 
only has to be patient.” 

Her belly tightened with frustration, remembering the 
lean fresh-kill piles, and her Clanmates’ annoyance at seeing 
ShadowClan warriors clumsily hunting territory that 
belonged to them. She supposed that being patient had 
worked out this time—they had their territory back now, and 
WindClan’s to split between the Clans. But who knew what 
might have happened if they’d fought back when they 
should have? 

How much has that patience cost us? she wondered. 


Leopardfur wrapped her tail tighter over her paws. The 
weather had turned cold in the days since the meeting with 
Nightpelt, and frosty air pooled in the Fourtrees hollow and 
reached deep into her fur. The warriors of RiverClan, 
ThunderClan, and ShadowClan bunched together, and the 
bright full moon lit their billowing breath, the air swirling 
around them like cloudy water. Leopardfur was sitting with 
the other deputies beside the Great Rock while the leaders 
addressed the Gathering. 

Cinderfur sat in Blackfoot’s place. The old ShadowClan 
deputy had fled with his leader. Leopardfur eyed Cinderfur 


as he gazed up at Nightpelt. Did he approve of his leader’s 
plan to share the moor? Tigerclaw sat on her other side. The 
dark tabby had replaced Lionheart as ThunderClan’s deputy. 
She shifted as warmth from his pelt reached her, unsettled by 
his musky ThunderClan scent. 

“I, Nightpelt, have taken over leadership of 
ShadowClan,” the skinny tom called from the top of the 
Great Rock. 

Tigerclaw leaned closer to Leopardfur. “I notice he still 
hasn't gone to the Moonstone for his name,” he murmured 
under his breath. 

She eyed him suspiciously. There was amusement in his 
gaze, as though he thought little of ShadowClan’s new 
leader. She looked away. ShadowClan was RiverClan’s ally 
now, and she didn’t like the ThunderClan deputy’s 
insinuation that Nightpelt wasn’t a true leader. 

Leopardfur glanced at her Clanmates, dotted among the 
crowd. Mosspelt's sprain had healed enough for her to join 
the Gathering. She sat with Frogleap while Birdsong stood a 
few tail-lengths away, among the ShadowClan elders. 
Mudfur was with Spottedleaf, and Rippleclaw, Timberfur, and 
Shimmerpelt huddled together at the edge of the crowd, their 
pelts fluffed out against the cold. 

The whole of RiverClan knew about the alliance 
Nightpelt had proposed. Leopardfur knew her Clanmates 
were excited and anxious in equal measure at the thought of 


hunting on WindClan’s abandoned territory. She guessed 
that, like her, they were listening to hear what ThunderClan 
would think of the plan. 

Nightpelt was still speaking. “Our former leader, 
Brokenstar, broke the warrior code, and we were forced to 
chase him out.” 

“No mention of our help,” Tigerclaw muttered. 

Cinderfur glared at the ThunderClan deputy, and 
Tigerclaw blinked back at him. 

Leopardfur ignored the animosity sparking between the 
two toms. She was more interested in the crowd. The space 
left by WindClan still felt strange, but now she felt it more as 
an opportunity than a loss, and pictured the great swaths of 
moorland that were open to RiverClan’s warriors. Perhaps 
she should organize some special training patrols. After all, 
RiverClan cats were used to hunting fish and birds. It would 
do no harm to practice chasing fur prey. Would some of 
RiverClan’s hunting moves work as well on hillsides as on 
riverbanks and in water meadows? 

She went through them, one by one, deciding which 
could be best adapted to hunting among the heather. 

“WindClan must return!” 

Bluestar’s heated mew caught her attention and she 
looked up sharply. The ThunderClan leader was staring 
angrily at Nightpelt. But it was Crookedstar who spoke. 

“Why?” 


Before the ThunderClan leader could answer, Nightpelt 
added, “Sharing WindClan’s hunting grounds will mean 
more food for all our kits.” 

“The forest needs four Clans,” Bluestar insisted. “Just 
as we have Fourtrees and four seasons, StarClan has given 
us four Clans. We must find WindClan as soon as possible 
and bring them home.” 

“They must return!” 

“Four Clans, not three!” 

Leopardfur’s pelt twitched uneasily as ThunderClan 
warriors raised their voices in support of their leader. She 
glanced up at the Great Rock as Crookedstar spoke again. 

“Your argument is weak, Bluestar. Do we really need four 
seasons? Wouldn’t you rather go without leaf-bare, and the 
cold and hunger it brings?” 

Bluestar met his gaze coolly. “StarClan gave us leaf-bare 
to let the land recover and prepare for newleaf. This forest, 
and the uplands, have supported four Clans for generations. 
It is not up to us to challenge StarClan.” 

Leopardfur held her breath. Was Crookedstar going to 
press his point home? The RiverClan leader stared blankly at 
Bluestar. He couldn’t be lost for words. He’d made an 
agreement with ShadowClan. ThunderClan was 
outnumbered here. He had to speak. 

Bluestar was still staring at him, her blue eyes flashing 
angrily in the moonlight. 


Say something! Leopardfur leaned forward, willing her 
leader to speak. But Crookedstar was silent. If he was going 
to let ThunderClan steal this chance of feeding their Clan, 
she wasn’t. “Why should we go hungry for the sake of a 
Clan that cannot even defend its own territory?” she 
yowled. 

Crookedstar shot her an angry look. She shot one back. 
Did he really expect her to stay quiet in the face of such 
provocation? 

Tigerclaw bristled beside her “Bluestar is right!” His 
growl took Leopardfur by surprise, and she drew away as he 
glared around at the gathered cats. “WindClan must return.” 

Bluestar spoke again. “Crookedstar.” She was still 
staring at the RiverClan leader, but her gaze had softened. 
She was reasoning with him now. “RiverClan’s hunting 
grounds are known for their richness.” 

Not when ShadowClan has spent a moon scaring away 
our prey and ThunderClan has claimed part of our territory 
as their own! Leopardfur trembled with indignation as 
Bluestar went on. 

“You have the river and all the fish it contains. Why do 
you need extra prey?” 

Leopardfur’s eyes widened as Crookedstar looked away. 
Wasn’t he going to argue? 

Bluestar turned to Nightpelt. “It was Brokenstar who 
drove WindClan from their home. That’s why ThunderClan 


helped you chase him out.” 

Leopardfur bristled with indignation. The ThunderClan 
leader was reminding himof his debt to her. Surely Nightpelt 
wouldn’t be manipulated so easily? 

“Wry well, Bluestar,” Nightpelt mewed after a moment’s 
hesitation. “We will allow WindClan to return.” 

Leopardfur could hardly believe her ears. Nightpelt had 
betrayed their alliance at the first sign of pressure. 
Crookedstar hadn’t even bothered to fight; he was still 
staring at his paws. How could these two leaders be so 
weak? She glared at Bluestar. Her shoulders were broader 
than Nightpelt’s, her gaze more determined than 
Crookedstar’s. The ThunderClan leader seemed far more 
powerful than either of them. 

She turned to look at Nightpelt, the sickly ShadowClan 
warrior. He’d given in so easily. Suddenly the thought 
occurred to her: Was it was just for show? Perhaps he 
intended sticking to the deal he’d made with Crookedstar. 
After all, hadn’t he and Crookedstar agreed to keep their 
alliance from ThunderClan secret? Perhaps agreeing with 
Bluestar was his way of hiding it. 

Tigerclaw’s mew sounded softly in her ear, disrupting her 
thoughts. “Are you learning from her?” 

She snapped her head around and glared at him. 

“She’s impressive, isn’t she?” he mewed. 

“She’s a bully!” 


“She only reasoned with them.” 

Leopardfur felt the ThunderClan deputy’s gaze 
searching hers, as though he was curious. She stared back 
at him. “What do you want from me?” she snapped. “Are 
you waiting for me to tell you how much I admire your 
leader?” 

“No.” Tigerclaw’s mew was silky. “I’m just interested in 
why you spoke out when Crookedstar wouldn’t.” 

She let out a low hiss. “I’m not prepared to let my Clan 
go hungry just because ThunderClan says they should.” 

“Pm glad.” 

She blinked at him. “Why?” 

“Didn’t I already tell you that the Clans need fresh 
energy?” he mewed. “I’m pleased you’re living up to your 
promise.” 

Her pelt prickled uneasily. A few moments ago, this tom 
had openly contradicted her. Now he was encouraging her. 
She didn’t understand. “But I don’t want WindClan to 
return.” 

“So?” 

“You want them back.” 

“Do 1?” 

“You just told the Gathering that Bluestar was right.” 
What kind ofsnake-tongued warrior was he? 

“She’s my leader.” 

Leopardfur suddenly realized that the Gathering was 


breaking up. Nightpelt had jumped down from the Great 
Rock and Bluestar, was already pushing her way through the 
crowd toward the slope that led toward ThunderClan 
territory. Cinderfur hurried away without saying good-bye, 
but Tigerclaw didn’t move. 

He blinked at Leopardfur. “But that doesn’t mean I agree 
with her.” 

“You mean you dont want WindClan back?” Leopardfur 
was shocked. 

“Right now, it doesn’t matter what I want,” he mewed. 
“Bluestar is my leader, and so I support whatever she 
decides. But if we have thoughts and opinions we keep to 
ourselves, where’s the harm? I want what’s best for my Clan, 
just like you do. Isn’t it enough that I be loyal with my 
tongue and my claws? What happens in my own mind is my 
concern.” 

She frowned. She couldn’t help thinking that Tigerclaw 
wasn't keeping his disagreement with Bluestar inside his 
own mind—he was telling her right now, wasn't he? A cat 
from outside his Clan. Wasn’t that disloyal? 

Tigerclaw was watching her carefully. “Clearly, there are 
times you don’t agree with Crookedstar,” he pointed out. 
“Perhaps even more than you said tonight?” 

Leopardstar flinched. She couldn’t exactly deny it— 
she’d spoken out just moments before. And yet... she 
couldn’t admit this to a ThunderClan cat. Could she? 


Tigerclaw drew himself up tall. “It’s not always easy 
being deputy, is it? You must support your leader, but at the 
same time, you’re your own cat. That’s why your leader 
chose you, because you can make your own decisions. We 
have one paw in the present, supporting our leaders, and 
one paw in the future, planning for the day when we will be 
leader. I would only say, we understand each other— 
perhaps better than another cat could,” he added, looking 
her up and down. “I would never betray your confidence. I 
admire you, Leopardfur. Your intelligence, your ambition. I 
hope that someday we will work together as leaders.” 

I hope so too. Being leader was all she’d ever wanted. 
But it seemed a horrible thing to hope for. It meant that 
Crookedstar would have to die. And it shamed her, in a way, 
that Tigerclaw could see her ambition so clearly. She got to 
her paws. “I should go.” Her Clanmates were heading for the 
slope. 

“I won’t always be deputy, and neither will you,” 
Tigerclaw purred silkily. “The day will come when our Clans 
will look to us for leadership. And I believe we can do it, 
Leopardstar. We just have to be ready. We can bring change 
for the first time in moons—” 

Leopardstar. Since she was a tiny kit, Leopardfur had 
imagined how her leader name would sound, but this was 
the first time another cat had spoken it aloud. It sounded 
beautiful, so beautiful that it shamed her a little. Crookedstar 


is my leader She began to head away, but Tigerclaw blocked 
her path. 

“Change is frightening.” His mew was gentle but 
insistent. “But you have the courage of your convictions. 
The Clans waste so much time fighting for the wrong things. 
I know you see that too.” She pushed past him, but he 
followed. “You love your Clan; that’s obvious. But you can 
see its weaknesses. You know how to make it better; you 
just haven’t been given the chance yet. If we could plan 
together—” 

“My Clanmates are leaving.” She raced after them, her 
pelt twitching uncomfortably. As she reached the slope, she 
glanced back and saw Tigerclaw standing alone in the empty 
clearing. 

The ThunderClan warrior had unsettled her. Plan 
together? There was something treacherous about his 
words. Should she tell her true thoughts to this 
ThunderClan deputy, but not her own leader? Surely he was 
encouraging her to break the warrior code. 

And yet—she realized, as she turned the conversation 
over in her mind—he hadn’t. He’d told her to put her Clan 
first. fwe have our own thoughts and opinions, wheres the 
harm? That was true, wasn’t it? He was right. She truly 
believed that the Clans needed change. And she would be 
leader one day. What was wrong with admitting that, and 
thinking about it now? 


Was it a crime to have her own dreams for RiverClan? 
What made Crookedstar’s ideas right and her ideas wrong? 

Tigerclaw was right, she realized as she headed back to 
camp. Believing in change wasn’t disloyal. Nothing was 
disloyal so long as she had her Clan’s best interests at heart. 





CHAPTER 12 
Se 


The sky was growing pale. It would be dawn soon. The 
clouds were clearing, and Leopardfur could tell it would be a 
fine day. She lifted her face to the wind. It tugged her pelt 
and swished through the reeds. She should return to camp, 
but she paused at the river’s edge and looked out across the 
water. She*d crept out before dawn and made a circuit ofthe 
island to check that no fox, dog, or Twoleg had come close. 
She wanted to see how the river was running. In the two 
days since the Gathering, it had rained hard, and the river 
was swollen and running fast. Fishing would be dangerous 
in such strong currents, and Leopardfur hoped that the 
day's hunting patrols would be able to find enough prey in 
the forest and along the shore. 

Her thoughts flitted back to the Gathering. Bluestar had 
said that WindClan must be found and brought home, and 
that no Clan should hunt in their territory. Crookedstar’s 
silence—neither agreeing nor disagreeing with the 
ThunderClan leader’s demand—still clawed at her belly. 
Nightpelt had said that ShadowClan would allow WindClan 
to return. How could the two leaders give in to 
ThunderClan’s demands so easily? They outnumbered 
them! 

Crookedstar had let Leopardfur send only one patrol to 


the moor. While he’d agreed that RiverClan should maintain 
their right to hunt there, he’d ordered the patrol to take only 
one or two pieces of prey. It was as though he felt ashamed, 
and his furtiveness rubbed her fur the wrong way. 
ThunderClan could talk about bringing WindClan back, but 
until they did, the moor was open territory as far as 
Leopardfur was concemed. 

A leaf twirled past Leopardfur’s paws, carried on the 
water, and she grabbed for it, unable to resist. She hooked it 
out easily and dropped it on the bank. 

If it were up to her, she’d have sent three patrols to 
WindClan’s abandoned territory every day. The moor hadn’t 
been hunted for moons. It was foolish not to make the most 
of such rich land, especially when it sat right on RiverClan’s 
border. She’d have told them to leave scent markers too; she 
wanted RiverClan to show that the other Clans couldn’t tell 
them what to do. And if their markers happened to 
discourage WindClan from returning, all the better. The 
scrawny rabbit-chasers hadn’t had the courage to fight for 
their land when Brokenstar claimed hunting rights; why 
would they fight for it now? 

She turned, her tail flicking behind her, and headed back 
to camp, deciding on the day’s patrols. She’d send out three: 
one to mark the ThunderClan border, two more to hunt in the 
woods. Timberfur could lead the border patrol and Cedarpelt 
could— 


She ducked into camp, distracted from her thoughts by 
Mudfur, who was pacing beside the entrance. 

His eyes were bright with worry. “Where have you 
been?” 

“Checking the river.” Was something wrong? 

“Crookedstar’s sick,” he mewed. “Graypool found him in 
his den. He has a fever and is barely making any sense.” 

Leopardfur’s paws pricked anxiously. “Have you moved 
him to the medicine den?” 

“Yes,” Mudfur told her. “I’ve given him feverfew and oak 
leaf, but we’ll have to wait to see if it brings his fever down.” 

“Is it whitecough?” 

“Not as far as I can tell.” Mudfur flicked his tail uneasily. 
“But his throat looks a little red. He needs rest and herbs. 
You’re going to have to take charge of the Clan while he 
recovers.” 

Take charge. Excitement sparked in her fur. She’d finally 
get a chance to put her own ideas into practice. 

Mudfur narrowed his eyes. Had she looked too eager? 
“Until he recovers,” he mewed. 

“PI do my best,” she mewed quickly. “Take good care of 
him. It’s important he recover quickly.” 

Mudfur looked reassured. “Ill need fresh herbs,” he 
mewed. “Can you send a patrol to collect some tansy, if they 
can find it, and mallow?” 

“Of course.” Leopardfur began to tum toward the 


warriors’ den but Mudfur hadn’t finished. 

“Isaw you talking with Tigerclaw at the Gathering.” 

Why mention that now? It had been two days since they 
were at Fourtrees, and there were more important things to 
worry about now. She blinked at him. “We’re both deputies,” 
she told him. “Of course we’d talk.” 

“Even after the leaders had argued?” 

“Surely that makes it more important for the deputies to 
talk?” 

Mudfur stared at her for a moment. He looked wary. 
Leopardfur forced her pelt to stay smooth. There was no 
way he could have overheard their conversation. “I had a 
dream last night,” he mewed. “It disturbed me.” 

“What about?” 

“Tigerclaw was holding a fish in his jaws. It was 
struggling, but it couldn’t escape.” Mudfur shifted his paws. 
“He wants power and he”ll do anything to get it. You should 
be careful of him.” 

Leopardfur swished her tail. “Why wouldn’t I be careful? 
He belongs to another Clan.” 

“Yes,” Mudfur agreed. “And it’s the Clan that stole 
Sunningrocks.” 

Leopardfur felt irritated by the reminder. Did he think she 
didn’t know that? Besides, Mudfur had turned his back on 
being a warrior and made it clear he had no interest in Clan 
affairs. “I thought you didn’t believe in petty quarrels 


between Clans?” 

“But you do.” Mudfur’s eyes rounded. “And I worry 
about you.” 

“Pm fine.” She glanced around the clearing. Timberfur 
was pacing outside the warriors’ den while Ottersplash 
peered through the reed tunnel. Beetlenose was picking 
through the stiff prey left on the fresh-kill pile. They were 
restless. “I need to organize the patrols.” She left her father, 
her thoughts darting like fish. Of course she’d be careful of 
Tigerclaw. His ambition was obvious. But it was driven by 
the desire to protect his Clan. Was that wrong? She stopped 
in the clearing and shook out her pelt. Of course it wasn’t. It 
was natural. Mudfur worried too much. 


She’d sent Timberfur with a patrol to check the 
ThunderClan border; Cedarpelt had taken Ottersplash, 
Lakeshine, Stonefur, and Shadepaw to hunt birds along the 
shore. She would lead the third patrol. 

“Blackclaw.” She called to the lean, smoky-black tom. 
“I'm taking a patrol onto the moor,” she told him. “I want 
you to come with me, and bring Heavypaw.” She nodded to 
Frogleap and Beetlenose. “You too, with Whiteclaw and 
Sedgecreek.” She flicked her tail, and they hurried across the 
clearing to join her as she padded toward the entrance. 

Frogleap looked worried. “Will Crookedstar be okay with 
us hunting on WindClan territory?” 

“WindClan has left,’ she told him. “Why shouldn’t we 


hunt there?” 

Frogleap looked wary. “But Bluestar said at the 
Gathering—” 

Leopardfur cut him off. “Is Bluestar your leader?” 

“No, but Crookedstar—” 

“Crookedstar is sick,” Leopardfur told him sharply. “And 
I think we need to show ThunderClan that they don’t decide 
what other Clans can and cannot do.” 

Heavypaw glanced anxiously at his mentor “Is 
Leopardfur our leader now?” he whispered. 

“Until Crookedstar recovers,” Blackclaw told him. 

Whiteclaw padded eagerly around them. “Let’s catch as 
much prey as we can,” he mewed. “Before WindClan 
returns.” 

“Ifthey return,” Leopardfur mewed. 

Sedgecreek glanced toward the moor, which looked 
golden in the leaf-bare sunshine. “ThunderClan said they 
must be found.” 

“ThunderClan can look for them if they want,” 
Leopardfur mewed. “But itll be a long leaf-bare, and after 
losing so much prey to ShadowClan and that Twoleg, we 
need to fill our bellies however we can.” She glanced around 
the patrol. Frogleap still looked unconvinced, and 
Beetlenose’s tail was twitching. They needed reassuring. 
“Of course, I'd rather not eat moor prey,” she mewed. “Moor 
prey is all fur and bone. But I won’t let the Clan starve while 





perfectly good land goes unhunted.” 

She headed through the tunnel, ducking out into bright 
sunlight. Screwing up her eyes, she felt a pelt brush hers. 
Whiteclaw had fallen in beside her. 

“Do you think ShadowClan will be hunting on WindClan 
land too?” he asked. 

“Maybe.” Nightpelt had said they would share the moor, 
before he’d backed down at the Gathering. She sniffed. “But 
ShadowClan doesn’t interest me. I only care about feeding 
my own Clan.” 

Whiteclaw puffed out his chest. “The moor’s probably 
stuffed with prey,” he mewed. “I bet we’ll be able to feed the 
whole Clan froma single hunt.” 

The young tom suddenly reminded her of Sunfish. 
Leopardfur purred at him, grateful for his enthusiasm. 

The stepping-stones had disappeared beneath the 
surging water, so they had to swim across. They headed 
upstream to cross the river where it was smoother and easier 
to navigate. 

At the WindClan border, Leopardfur paused. There was 
barely any scent left. WindClan’s markers had been washed 
away, and the scent of heather was stronger than warrior 
scent now. As she crossed the border, Blackclaw scanned 
the sky. 

“Watch out for hawks,” he told Heavypaw. “With 
WindClan gone, they’ll be used to having the moor to 


themselves.” He glanced at his apprentice and added, “They 
might mistake you for a meal.” 

Heavypaw’s eyes widened. “Really?” 

“Really,” Blackclaw told him solemnly. 

Beetlenose winked at the warrior and added, “Don’t 
worry, Heavypaw. A hawk would spit you out after the first 
bite,” he teased. “You taste like fish.” 

Heavypaw’s ears were twitching nervously. “Don’t 
hawks like fish?” 

“Not furry fish,” Beetlenose mewed. 

Sedgecreek moved closer to the young tom. “Don’t take 
any notice of them,” she mewed. “They’re just teasing.” 

Blackclaw purred. “I promise I won’t let a hawk take 
you,” he mewed, adding mischievously, “Not after I’ve 
spent so long training you.” 

Leopardfur blinked reassuringly at Heavypaw. “You’ll be 
safe as long as you stick with us.” She felt a fresh rush of 
affection for her Clan, and her fierce urge to protect them 
pressed harder in her chest. 

As the rest of the patrol crossed the border, Whiteclaw 
hurried ahead. 

“Stay close.” Leopardfur called him back. Blackclaw 
might only have been teasing Heavypaw about hawks, but 
they were on territory that hadn’t been patrolled for moons. 
Who knew what was hiding in the heather? Whiteclaw 
dropped back and fell in beside Sedgecreek, and Leopardfur 


pulled into the lead. If there were dangers here, she would be 
the first to meet them. 

As the land began to slope upward, the grass beneath 
her paws grew coarser, the terrain rougher A swath of 
heather lay ahead, and she ducked through a passage 
between the bushes, the patrol falling into single file behind 
her. 

As the rough branches closed over her head, she 
opened her mouth to taste the air. Peat scent bathed her 
tongue. It smelled sour after the sharp, fresh scents of the 
river, but if WindClan never returned and they were to hunt 
this territory regularly, RiverClan would have to get used to 
the new flavors. 

She stopped and marked a bush. For now, the other 
Clans should know this land was theirs. 

Frogleap watched her, his pelt prickling uneasily. 
“Perhaps we should wait for ThunderClan to search for 
WindClan before we start marking,” he mewed. 

“ThunderClan needs to know they can’t push us 
around,” Leopardfur told him. 

“But Crookedstar told us to stay low—” 

“Tm leader right now,” she mewed. “If Crookedstar 
wants to let the land fall into the paws of the other Clans 
when he’s recovered, that’s up to him. But I’m thinking of 
Mosspelt. And you should too. I’m not going to let a queen 
go hungry just to appease ThunderClan.” 


Frogleap dropped his gaze, but his pelt was still rippling 
along his spine. Leopardfur pushed on through the heather, 
her nose twitching as fresh scent surprised her. 
ShadowClan? So they were hunting here. She didn’t know 
whether to feel irritated that she had to compete with them, 
or relieved that Nightpelt was sticking to the alliance. She 
ducked along a heather tunnel and slid out into the 
sunshine, where a grassy clearing opened on the hillside. 

A dark pelt shadowed the bushes a few tail-lengths 
away. She bristled, giving the rest of the patrol a waming 
glance as they filed out behind her. 

“Its ShadowClan,” Frogleap mewed, glancing toward 
the cat. 

As he spoke, the warrior called out. “Leopardfur?” 

She recognized the gray pelt of Wetfoot, a ShadowClan 
warrior, as he hurried to meet her. Two other ShadowClan 
warriors and an apprentice were watching from the heather 
behind him. 

“We’ve seen WindClan cats,” Wetfoot told her. 

Leopardfur’s belly tightened. Had WindClan returned 
already? “Where?” 

“Over there.” Wetfoot nodded upslope where bracken 
covered the steep hillside. “We were going to warn you 
before we went back to camp.” 

“Ts WindClan back?” Leopardfur flexed her claws. 

“Their camp is still deserted,” Wetfoot told her “And 


there are no WindClan scent markers on the ShadowClan 
border.” 

“There aren’t any on our border either,” she told him. 

“I think it’s just a few stragglers.” Wetfoot glanced 
upslope again and stiffened, his hackles lifting. 

She followed his gaze. The bracken was rustling a little 
way up. She could see pelts moving between the stalks. No 
more than four, she guessed. “Follow me.” She bounded 
toward them. 

Her patrol raced after her, Wetfoot at her heels. The other 
ShadowClan warriors slid from their hiding place in the 
heather and followed. 

She crashed through the bracken, WindClan scent 
strong in her nose now. Anger pulsed in her paws. 
WindClan had abandoned their land. If they’d run away, 
they should stay away and not sneak back like scavengers 
and steal food from RiverClan’s mouths. 

She could see three WindClan warriors through the 
bracken now, bunched together like fish hiding in weeds. 
They began to run; she smelled their fear-scent and chased 
them. 

They burst from the heather into sunlight, and she raced 
out after them, pushing harder against the earth, swerving to 
overtake themand block their escape. 

They slithered to a halt as she faced them. They were 
skinny, their eyes round with panic. One of them held a 


plump vole between his jaws. Blackclaw and Beetlenose 
exploded from the bracken with Whiteclaw and the 
ShadowClan warriors. They fanned out around the 
WindClan patrol. Only Frogleap hung back, ears twitching 
as he watched the WindClan warriors huddle defensively in 
the middle of the clearing. 

“What are you doing here?” Leopardfur stalked toward 
them. She recognized Stagleap, an old WindClan warrior, and 
two younger cats. 

Stagleap returned her glare. “This is our land,’ he 
growled. “What are you doing here?” He glanced fiercely at 
the ShadowClan and RiverClan patrols, but Leopardfur 
could see fear sparking in his gaze. He knew he was 
outnumbered. 

She padded closer and turned her attention to the young 
she-cat holding the vole. “Your Clan left its territory,” she 
snarled. “It’s our hunting ground now.” She turned toward 
Wetfoot. “And ShadowClan’s.” 

The WindClan she-cat glanced nervously at Stagleap. 

“Don’t worry, Sorrelshine,” Stagleap reassured her. “The 
moors belong to WindClan.” 

Leopardfur looked casually up the slope. “It doesn’t 
look like it,” she mewed. “It looks like you’re alone here. 
Wetfoot says your camp is deserted and there are no 
markers on the borders. Which means this land belongs to 
any cat who wants to hunt here.” 


Stagleap’s tail began to lash. “We want to hunt here,” he 
hissed. 

She blinked at him, then thrust her muzzle close to his. 
“We re not going to let you.” 

The young gray-and-white WindClan tom bristled. “But 
it’s our territory!” 

“It used to be.” Leopardfur didn’t even look at him. She 
kept her attention fixed on Stagleap. “So I suggest you 
leave.” 

Blackclaw growled behind her “Why are you even 
here?” 

Whiteclaw puffed out his chest. “Did your Clan leave 
you behind?” 

Stagleap eyed them angrily. “We chose to stay behind,” 
he mewed. “This is our home.” 

“Your home is with your Clan.” Leopardfur showed her 
teeth. “Go and find them.” With a snarl, she swiped her 
claws across Stagleap’s nose. 

He staggered back, fury burning in his gaze, and started 
to lift his paw, his claws glinting in the sunlight. But the 
gray-and-white tom darted in front of him. 

“Come on, Stagleap,” he mewed. “Let’s go. This isn’t a 
fight we can win.” He glanced around the warriors encircling 
them. 

Stagleap looked at him. Then, finally, his tail drooped. 
“Okay.” He turned and began to head over the grass. The 


gray-and-white tom padded after him. As Sorrelshine began 
to follow, Leopardfur cleared her throat. 

“Leave the vole,” she growled. 

Sorrelshine stared at her, her eyes glittering with 
surprise. 

“Leave it,” Leopardfur ordered. 

Stagleap blinked at his Clanmate. “Leave it,” he told her 
gently. “We can find other prey.” 

“Not on the moor,” Leopardfur dug her claws into the 
ground. She was already sharing prey with ShadowClan. She 
wasn’t going to give up more to these rogues. They weren’t 
even loyal to their own Clan. “I want you to leave and never 
return,” she hissed. “This is our land now.” 


The hunt went well. Prey was plentiful and easy to catch. 
The cover of heather and bracken made it easy to stalk 
unsuspecting mice and voles, and it was even easier to 
chase down rabbits on the open grassland. Leopardfur had 
given the WindClan warrior’s vole to Wetfoot and thanked 
him for his help, secretly hoping she wouldn’t see too many 
more ShadowClan patrols here. ShadowClan must already be 
fat on the prey they’d taken from RiverClan territory during 
the last moon. The more prey RiverClan caught here, the less 
they’d have to take from the already depleted supplies in the 
river and along the shoreline at home. 

Frogleap was sulking. The dark looks he threw her as 
they carried their catch home made her pelt bum with 


irritation. At last, in camp, she dropped her rabbit on the 
fresh-kill pile and turned on him. “What’s your problem?” 

He met her gaze steadily, but she could see anger in it. 
“Was that really the right thing to do?” 

“What?” she demanded, even though she knew. 

“They were WindClan warriors,” he snapped. “The moor 
is their home.” 

“Was their home,” she snapped back. “WindClan gave it 


” 


up. 

“That doesn’t mean we can hunt there and they can’t.” 
His tail lashed behind him. 

She narrowed her eyes. “Why are you so concerned 
about every Clan but your own?” If he didn’t care about his 
own kits going hungry, then she would care for him. 

“Because those WindClan cats are warriors, just like us! 
They don’t deserve to starve any more than we do!” 

“That’s their problem,” she growled. “Not ours.” 

His tail fell still. “Oh, Leopardfur.” The anger suddenly 
left his eyes, and he stared at her sadly. “You’re not the 
warrior I hoped you’d become.” 

His words stung like nettles. But she held his gaze, 
refusing to flinch. “Thank StarClan Pm not.” This was for 
the best. She’d given him up and he’d chosen Mosspelt. 
And now Mosspelt was having his kits. It didn’t matter 
whether he liked her or not. Her duty was to protect the 
Clan. And yet the pain in her heart seemed to snatch her 


breath. She glared at Frogleap as he padded away, trying not 
to tremble. 

“Leopardfur.” Whiteclaw’s quiet mew made her turn. The 
young tom was standing beside her. “He’s being unfair.” He 
nodded after Frogleap. “He doesn’t realize that you only do 
these things for the good of the Clan.” 

His words soothed the sting in her heart a little. She 
blinked at Whiteclaw gratefully. “Thank you,” she mewed. 
“Tm glad some cat understands me.” 

“When it all works out, every cat will see you were 
right.” He straightened as though he’d suddenly 
remembered something. “Mudfur told me to fetch you,” he 
mewed. “He wants you in the medicine den.” 

She tensed. “Is Crookedstar okay?” 

Whiteclaw glanced toward the medicine den. “He didn’t 
say,” he mewed. “He just wanted you to come. Quickly.” 

“Thanks.” Was Crookedstar worse? Leopardfur hurried 
across the clearing, trying to keep her fur smooth. She didn’t 
want to alarm her Clanmates. She ducked into the medicine 
den. “Is something wrong?” 

Mudfur was crouching beside Crookedstar’s nest. “He 
wants to speak to you.” 

Leopardfur crossed the den, her heart sinking as she saw 
Crookedstar’s matted pelt. The RiverClan leader was lying 
stiffly on the reed bed, and for a moment, Leopardfur 
wondered if she was too late. How many lives did 


Crookedstar have left? Panic fizzed beneath her pelt as she 
realized she didn’t know. What kind of deputy am I? she 
wondered, looking from the leader to Mudfur. How can I be 
ready to be leader when I have no idea how close I am? 

“Pve given him every herb I know,” Mudfur mewed 
softly. “But the fever won’t break.” 

“But he’s alive?” 

“Yes.” Mudfur touched his paw against Crookedstar’s 
shoulder. “She’s here,” he whispered. “She came like you 
asked.” 

Leopardfur leaned closer. As RiverClan’s leader lifted his 
head and blinked slowly at Leopardfur, Mudfur straightened. 

“He’s very weak.” He moved out of the way. “Don’t tire 
him.” 

“Okay.” Leopardfur slid into her father’s place. 

As Mudfur left the den, Crookedstar stared at her, his 
eyes bright with fever. 

She could feel the heat pulsing from his pelt. She 
remembered the last time she’d been called to the medicine 
den like this. Sunfish had asked her to take care of 
Whiteclaw. And then she’d died. She ignored the twinge of 
grief that pricked in her chest. “What did you want to speak 
to me about?” 

“Leopardfur.” He seemed to brighten as he recognized 
her. “Thank you for coming.” 

“Of course I’ve come,” she mewed quickly. 


“I was worried you'd be busy.” His mew was husky. He 
shifted in his nest, and the effort of it seemed to pain him. He 
hesitated, catching his breath. “I’m glad you’re such a 
strong deputy,” he mewed at last. “RiverClan will have need 
of you.” 

“Don’t talk like that.” He sounded like he didn’t expect 
to recover. “They have you. And they will for many moons.” 
Leopardfur’s heart ached. However many lives he did have 
left, surely this sickness couldn’t take every one of them? 

“It's okay.” His gaze fixed on her. “I know PII be leaving 
the Clan in safe paws,” he mewed. “I knew Pd made the right 
choice when I chose you as deputy. We may not always 
have agreed, but I know you share the same love for our 
Clan as I do, and that you will sacrifice anything to protect 
it.” His gaze drifted past her, glittering now as though the 
fever was tightening its grip. His eyes widened as though he 
saw something, and she followed his gaze, wondering if she 
should call Mudfur. He was staring at nothing. “I knew Pd 
made the right choice,” he mewed again. “Even though 
Mudfur told me to choose a different cat.” 

Leopardfur froze. Did Crookedstar know what he was 
saying? “Mudfur did what?” 

“I don’t know if he was frightened for you or for the 
Clan, but I told him you were the best choice and the 
strongest warrior and the bravest.” 

Leopardfur was hardly listening. Her thoughts were 


whirling. Her own father had advised Crookedstar to choose 
another cat to be deputy? How could he? Why? Did he have 
so little faith in her? He was the one who had told her she 
would save RiverClan. Had he never really believed it? 

She stumbled to her paws as Crookedstar began to 
mutter, a look in his eyes so faraway that she knew he 
couldn’t see her anymore. She lurched from the den, staring 
into the leaf-fall sunshine that was glittering on the water 
beyond the reeds. She let it dazzle her, feeling numb. 

Mudfur hurried to meet her. “How is he?” 

“T think he needs you,” she mewed blankly. 

He slid past her and disappeared into the den. 

Around the edge of the clearing, her Clanmates were 
sharing the prey she’d brought back from the moor. 

“So much fur,” Tanglewhisker complained to Birdsong as 
he picked apart a rabbit. 

“It tastes quite good,” Lakeshine told Shimmerpelt, 
tearing another strip of flesh from a quail. “Try some. It’s a 
bit like musky sparrow.” 

Leopardfur padded past them. Her heart felt like a huge 
stone in her chest, pressing so hard against her throat that 
she could hardly breathe. She headed for the entrance. She 
needed to clear her head. 

“Is Crookedstar okay?” Whiteclaw trotted after her as 
she followed the winding path between the reeds. “You look 
kind of shocked.” 


“He’s very sick.” 

“Is he going to die?” 

“Mudfur will do everything he can to save him.” 

Whiteclaw pelt ruffled nervously. “What will happen if 
he dies?” 

“Tl become leader.” The words seemed suddenly empty. 
It was what she’d wanted. And yet Mudfur didn’t believe in 
her. The one cat she wanted to impress most thought 
Crookedstar had made the wrong choice when he’d made 
her deputy. 

Whiteclaw was watching her as they reached the river’s 
edge. His eyes glistened with worry. “Don’t be sad,” he 
mewed encouragingly. “Crookedstar will be happy in 
StarClan, and you’ll be a great leader.” 

She looked at him, her heart aching at his kindness. He 
was looking at her with the eyes of a loving kit. Was this 
how Sunfish had felt when he’d looked at her? “I’m not just 
sad about Crookedstar,” she mewed. “There's something 
Mudfur said. Something . . .” She hesitated. How much 
should she share? “Hurtful.” 

Whiteclaw tipped his head. “I thought you two were 
close.” 

“We were, once.” Leopardfur swallowed back sadness. 

Whiteclaw looked at her thoughtfully. “Sometimes our 
parents aren’t the ones who understand us best.” 

She looked at him. There was such honest affection in 


his gaze, she wanted to lick his ears fondly, just as Sunfish 
used to do whenever he’d done or said anything particularly 
cute as a kit. 

She sat down, comforted suddenly by his presence and 
the soothing chatter of the river. She was being selfish, 
unloading all her worries on such a young cat. “Everything 
will be okay,” she mewed. “Crookedstar will recover and PH 
talk to Mudfur. We’ll work it out.” Even if it wasn’t true, it 
would comfort Whiteclaw. She blinked at him. She should 
distract him by talking about something else. “What’s going 
on with you at the moment?” 

He looked away, as though a thought had made him 
suddenly self-conscious. 

“What?” she mewed. Did he have something on his 
mind? 

He stared at his paws for a few moments, his tail fur 
twitching nervously. “I have a crush,” he mewed without 
looking at her. 

“Really?” She purred, her heart lifting. “Who’s the lucky 
cat?” 

Whiteclaw didn’t reply. 

“I promise I won’t tell,” she coaxed. 

He looked at her. “It’s Silverstream.” 

She purred louder. “A good choice,” she mewed. “She’s 
a fine warrior, and pretty too.” 

“But I feel so awkward around her,’ Whiteclaw mewed. 


“Tt’s like she’s suddenly from another Clan and I don’t know 
what to say to her.” 

Leopardfur thought for a moment. “Just tell her how you 
feel,” she mewed. “What’s the worst that could happen?” 

“She could think I’m a mouse-brain.” 

“Why would she think that?” Leopardfur felt suddenly 
defensive of the young tom. “You’re not a mouse-brain. 
Besides, if she’s that mean, why would you like her in the 
first place?” 

“But what if she doesn’t feel the same way?” 

“Isn’t it better to find out instead of wasting time 
hoping?” Leopardfur could see he wasn’t convinced. She 
went on. “She'll have more respect for you if you tell her 
how you feel than if you hide it,” she mewed. “And if you 
truly want your relationship to grow into something 
stronger, you have to be bold.” She nudged his cheek with 
her nose. “You want Silverstream to be happy, right?” 

“Of course.” 

“Then tell her And if she tums you down, you'll 
survive. You’re a true warrior. You can survive anything. 
And it doesn’t really matter what she thinks. What matters is 
that you have the confidence to speak your mind.” 

“Really?” She saw hope sparking in his eyes. 

“Really.” She realized, with a rush of surprise, that she 
hadn’t entirely been speaking to him; her advice had been 
for herself, too. What did it matter if Mudfur thought she 


didn’t have what it took to lead RiverClan? What mattered 
was that she did. She didn’t know how many lives 
Crookedstar had left, or whether he would survive this 
illness, but she knew that if Crookedstar died, she would be 
a great leader. And in the meantime, while he was sick, she 
could show every cat what type of leader she would be. 
She’d prove Mudfur wrong—and Frogleap, and any other 
cat who doubted her. Crookedstar had made the right choice 
when he’d chosen her as his successor, and she’d show 
them. 

Tam on the right path. She gazed across the river as it 
churned and frothed downstream. Every cat will see it soon. 
I am following in the paw steps StarClan has laid out for 
me. 





CHAPTER 13 
¥ 


“Graypool.” Leopardfur nodded to the smoky she-cat. 
“Take Ottersplash and Stonefur to the moor to hunt.” 

“Can I go too?” Shadepaw looked at her hopefully. “I’ve 
never hunted on the moor, but I’ve been practicing stalking 
in the forest. I even chased a rabbit the other day.” 

“Did you catch it?” Leopardfur asked. 

“No, but I was close.” Shadepaw whisked her dark gray 
tail. 

Leopardfur looked at Stonefur. “Is she ready?” 

Shadepaw pushed in front of her mentor. “Of course I’m 
ready!” she mewed indignantly. “Heavypaw went to the 
moor yesterday, and I’ve been training just as long as him.” 

Stonefur’s whiskers twitched with amusement. “She’s 
ready,” he mewed. 

“Okay.” Leopardfur dipped her head. “She can join the 
patrol.” 

Leopardfur had been awake since dawn. Dreams of 
chasing elusive prey across the shores and through the reed 
beds of RiverClan territory had left her feeling frustrated, 
and she was eager to get on with the day. She’d paced 
impatiently as her Clanmates padded sleepily from their 
dens, assigning patrols as soon as enough cats had 
gathered in the clearing. She’d spent the night wondering 


what the future held for Crookedstar and herself. What 
Mudfur had said yesterday—that he’d already given the 
leader every herb he could think of, to no avail—didn’t 
sound promising, given how sick Crookedstar had seemed. 
At the least, Crookedstar would need time to recover. And 
she remembered what Crookedstar had said about leaving 
RiverClan in the right paws. If he was sick for a long time, 
this could be her chance to prove him right. If she 
succeeded, Mudfur would see that she was good for 
RiverClan, strong and competent. And when he recovered, 
Crookedstar would see that she held wisdom, too; perhaps 
he’d listen to her more often. She’d already sent Softwing 
with a patrol to mark the ThunderClan border, and 
Rippleclaw had taken another to fish upstream. Now she was 
determined that a patrol should hunt on the moor. After 
yesterday’s brush with the WindClan warriors, and knowing 
that ShadowClan was hunting the same territory, she felt it 
was important to maintain RiverClan’s presence there. 

“Keep an eye out for those WindClan deserters,” she 
told Graypool as the she-cat led the patrol toward the 
entrance tunnel. “Chase them off if you see them, and don’t 
let them take prey.” 

Frogleap flashed her a look from the edge of the clearing, 
and she met it. “You can spend the day repairing gaps in the 
camp walls,” she told him. “Skyheart and Loudbelly can help 
you.” 


He nodded, his gaze betraying nothing, and she turned 
to Whiteclaw. She had a special assignment for him. “You 
and Silverstream will be hunting with me this morning.” 

His eyes widened. “Me and Silverstream?” He 
swallowed. 

“Remember,” she told him, keeping her voice firm but 
encouraging, “you must be bold and confident.” 

Whiteclaw glanced uncertainly at the warriors’ den. “I 
don’t know if she’s awake yet,” he mewed. “She was on 
guard duty last night.” 

“Only because she was too worried about her father to 
sleep,” Leopardfur told him. “She’ll probably be grateful for 
a chance to go hunting this morning. It’ll distract her.” 

Whiteclaw still looked anxious. “She might want to stay 
in camp to be near him.” 

“Staying near him won’t help,” Leopardfur told him. 
“And he’s got Mudfur.” She wasn’t going to let Whiteclaw 
wriggle out of a chance to spend time with Silverstream. 
Especially now, when Silverstream must be feeling anxious. 
If nothing else, she would need a friend. “Go and wake her. 
Pll see how Crookedstar is.” 

She fluffed out her fur and headed for the medicine den. 
Dark clouds were rolling in over the moor, and she could 
taste rain on the wind. But she wasn’t going to let the 
weather stop her from helping Whiteclaw. Besides, a good 
leader should patrol as much as her warriors. 


Her belly tightened as she neared the medicine den. Was 
Crookedstar worse? He’d seemed close to death yesterday, 
but he must have made it through the night or Mudfur 
would have told her. She tasted dread, imagining another 
feverish conversation like they one they’d had the day 
before. What else might he tell me that I dont want to 
know? But she pushed those thoughts aside, forcing herself 
to put the Clan first. A Clan whose leader was gravely ill. 
Had he lost a life already? Or two? She ducked through the 
trailing moss, steadying her breath as she prepared for the 
worst, and padded into the den. 

Mudfur greeted her with a cheery purr. “I was about to 
come and find you.” 

Surprise sparked through her pelt. Crookedstar was 
sitting up in his nest, his eyes bright, not with fever, but with 
welcome. “Hi, Leopardfur.” There was still a rasp in his mew, 
but he sounded much stronger. “How’s the Clan?” 

“They’re fine.” As sick as Crookedstar had seemed the 
day before, she wasn’t prepared for this speedy recovery. 
She felt a little dazed. “Pve—” She hesitated. She wasn’t 
going to be leader after all. She wouldn’t even be temporarily 
in charge for much longer. “I’ve sent out the patrols.” She 
wouldn’t mention that she’d sent one to the moor. 
Crookedstar wouldn’t approve. Her paws itched with 
frustration. She wouldn’t have enough time to show him that 
her way was right, which meant she’d be back to apologizing 


—for this, and for every decision that didn’t match his own. 

“His fever broke before dawn,” Mudfur told her happily. 
“He's even eaten a little fresh-kill.” 

Crookedstar tucked his tail over his paws. “I feel much 
better” 

“That’s great!” Leopardfur forced a purr. How could she 
prove to Mudfur that she was a great leader now? Instead, 
she’d have to go back to being deputy with the memory of 
Crookedstar’s words gnawing at her. Mudfur told me to 
choose a different cat. 

Mudfur headed for the entrance. “I’m going to go and 
check on Mosspelt,” he mewed. 

“Tm glad you’re feeling better.” She padded to the edge 
of Crookedstar’s nest and sat down. “You seemed pretty out 
of it when I spoke to you yesterday.” 

He looked puzzled. “I spoke to you?” 

“After I’d returned from patrol.” She searched his gaze, 
looking for a spark of recollection. Would he remember? 

“T must have been delirious,” he mewed. “Did I say 
anything strange?” 

“No,” she mewed casually. “You just wanted to make 
sure the Clan was okay.” 

“Good.” He shook out his matted pelt. “Who’s leading 
the patrols today?” 

“Softwing, Graypool, and Rippleclaw.” She hoped he 
wouldn’t ask where she’d sent them. 


“Good choices,” he mewed. “Are they fishing in the 
river?” 

“Rippleclaw’s patrol is,” she told him. “Graypool’s 
hunting land prey and”—she went on quickly—“I sent 
Softwing’s patrol to mark the ThunderClan border.” 

“We'd better start marking the WindClan border too if 
ThunderClan wants to bring them back.” 

“Okay.” She gritted her teeth, fighting back an objection. 
Clearly, he was completely resigned to giving up their newly 
gained hunting rights. No doubt he’d hear about the patrols 
she’d sent to hunt on WindClan land and lecture her for 
risking the anger of ThunderClan. She could survive that, 
but what would he say when he heard that she’d chased 
WindClan warriors off the moor? She’d deal with that when 
it happened. Right now, Whiteclaw and Silverstream were 
waiting for her. “I have to go.” 

“Is something wrong?” Crookedstar frowned. 

“No,” she told him. “I just promised Whiteclaw and 
Silverstream P'd go hunting with them.” 

Crookedstar’s eyes lit up. “Can you ask Silverstream to 
come and see me? She must have been worried.” 

“She was,” Leopardfur told him. “But I’ve been keeping 
her busy.” 

“Thank you,” he mewed gratefully. “But I hope you can 
replace her on your patrol. I want to spend some time with 
her.” His eyes glistened. 


Heart sinking, Leopardfur dipped her head. “Of course.” 
She couldn’t begrudge him. He’d come close to being 
separated from his daughter. But she was disappointed at 
how quickly she’d lost the chance to prove herself and 
defend her ideas. Patrols to WindClan would have to be 
suspended, and now she couldn’t even help out Whiteclaw. 
She padded crossly fromthe den. 

Whiteclaw was standing beside Silverstream at the camp 
entrance, looking like a ’paw at his first Gathering. The rain 
had arrived and the camp was already drenched. 

“Crookedstar wants to see you,” she called to 
Silvers tream. 

Her eyes glittered with alarm. “Is he worse?” 

“He's much better.” As Leopardfur’s mew rang across 
the clearing, Frogleap let go of the reed he was weaving into 
a gap in the camp wall. 

“Thank StarClan,” he mewed. 

“RiverClan is blessed,” Skyheart mewed beside him. 

Silverstream was already hurrying toward the medicine 
den, her eyes narrowed against the rain. As she nosed her 
way inside, Leopardfur joined Whiteclaw. 

“Pm sorry,” she mewed. She’d made him nervous for 
nothing. 

“Never mind.” He shook out his wet pelt, but she could 
see he was disappointed. 

“We’ll go hunting anyway,” she told him. “Let's take 


Piketooth and Sedgecreek.” 

The two warriors were sheltering beneath the sedge with 
Woleclaw and Reedtail. 

She called to themall. “Join us for a hunt.” 

The four warriors hurried across the camp, looking 
relieved to have something to do. Hunting would keep them 
warm. 

She led them out of camp and followed the path to the 
stepping-stones. The smooth rocks showed above the 
surface today, but only just; the river would have swallowed 
them by the time the patrol returned. She leaped them and 
headed toward the gorge. There was a beech copse on the 
way where birds would be sheltering in the trees. 

They hunted until sunhigh and caught a starling and a 
thrush. 

“Let’s bury these and pick them up on the way back,” 
Leopardfur suggested. 

Piketooth blinked at her through the rain. “Aren’t we 
heading home?” 

“There'll be good fishing beyond the gorge,’ she 
mewed. 

Whiteclaw nodded. “When the river’s been rough like 
this, there’s usually a few fish trapped below the white 
water,” he agreed. 

Leopardfur shook rain drops from her whiskers. “Let’s 
head over the top of the gorge,” she mewed. “It’Il be quicker 


than going around.” 

Sedgecreek glanced at the cliff top. “It’s a long drop 
down to the river.” 

“Don’t worry.” Whiteclaw nudged her teasingly. “TI 
catch you if you fall.” 

She nudged him back. “I don’t intend to get close 
enough to the edge to fall.” 

“I won’t let any of you fall.” Leopardfur mewed gently. 
She was relieved that, despite the rain, Whiteclaw seemed to 
have recovered from his disappointment about leaving 
Silverstream in camp. She headed along the path, following 
the track as it wound steeply upward. 

As she neared the top of the gorge, a familiar scent 
touched her nose. She stopped, her paws pricking warily. 

“What is it?” Wleclaw lifted his muzzle. 

“T smell WindClan.” Had the warriors they’d found on 
the moor yesterday come back? Leopardfur stiffened. There 
was another scent mingled with WindClan’s. Her pelt ruffled. 
“ThunderClan is with them.” 

Sedgecreek shifted her paws. “Do you think they found 
out we were hunting on WindClan land?” 

“Perhaps Stagleap asked them for help,” Piketooth 
mewed. 

Leopardfur’s belly tightened. “It doesn’t matter why 
they’re here,” she growled. “None of them should be on 
RiverClan land.” 


Whiteclaw began to head along the cliff top. “We were 
too soft on them yesterday.” His tail was bushed angrily. 

“Wait.” Leopardfur narrowed her eyes against the 
driving rain and hurried after him. He didn’t know what he 
was walking into. It could be an ambush. “Let me go first.” 
She slid into the lead, glancing back to make sure the others 
were keeping away from the edge. Despite the wind, the 
scent of ThunderClan and WindClan was so strong now that 
there was no doubt it was a joint patrol. Anger pulsed in her 
blood. Was there no Clan that respected RiverClan’s 
borders? She flattened her ears, preparing to confront them. 
She would give them a chance to explain themselves but 
their reason for being here would have to be good. Straining 
to see through the rain, she made out shadows on the cliff- 
top path, moving toward them. 

“Tsee them!” Whiteclaw mewed behind her. 

“Let me do the talk—” 

Whiteclaw pushed past her and pelted ahead. 

“Whiteclaw!” Leopardfur stared after him. 

His yowl rose above the wind as he charged at the 
intruders. “Follow me!” 

She raced after him. Rain battered her face, and she was 
half-blind with it as the shapes of the WindClan and 
ThunderClan cats sharpened. She recognized their pelts. 
Fireheart and Graystripe were there with Deadfoot and 
Onewhisker. Her thoughts whirled in confusion. They 


weren’t the WindClan trespassers she’d chased off 
yesterday. Had the rest of WindClan already come home? 
Why was ThunderClan with them? There was no time to 
wonder. Whiteclaw leaped for Fireheart and sent him 
crashing to the ground. 

Sedgecreek streaked past her and lunged at Onewhisker. 
She dragged him from his paws and raked his ears, then, 
grabbing him with her forepaws, she tumbled him over and 
over, dangerously near the edge of the cliff. 

Leopardfur leaped for them, grabbing Sedgecreek’s pelt 
and dragging her back. 

Sedgecreek let go of Onewhisker and tumed on 
Leopardfur, her eyes widening with surprise as she realized 
her deputy had pulled her away from the WindClan warrior. 
“What are you doing?” 

“I promised I wouldn’t let any of you fall.” Leopardfur 
nodded toward the edge, where Onewhisker was scrabbling 
to his paws. Her pelt spiked as the WindClan warrior leaped 
for Sedgecreek, slamming into the tabby she-cat and 
knocking her past Leopardfur with a snarl. But Sedgecreek 
stayed on her paws and, rearing, swiped at the WindClan 
tom’s muzzle, landing a vicious blow that sent him 
staggering. 

Piketooth and Wleclaw were driving Deadfoot back 
along the path, lashing out at him while he stumbled 
unsteadily backward, his lame hind paw unbalancing him 


with every step. 

Graystripe looked startled as Reedtail leaped for him, but 
the ThunderClan warrior reacted faster than a snake, batting 
Reedtail away with a hefty blow. Leopardfur raced at the 
gray warrior and, as Reedtail found his paws, she hurled 
herself at Graystripe and felt him stagger and collapse 
beneath her. 

“This is RiverClan land,” she snarled in his ear as she 
wrestled him the ground and began churning his belly with 
her hind claws. He screeched with fury and struggled to kick 
her off, but Reedtail sank his teeth in the gray tom’s tail and 
bit down so that Graystripe screeched again, this time with 
agony. 

Satisfaction surged in her chest. This band of intruders 
had learned their lesson. She loosened her grip. It was time 
to let them run away. They wouldn’t dare put a paw on 
RiverClan territory again. 

But a yowl erupted through the rain, and Leopardfur’s 
pelt spiked afresh. She jerked her muzzle around, her eyes 
widening in shock as she saw more ThunderClan warriors 
pounding along the path toward them. 

Tigerclaw! She recognized the dark tabby’s broad head 
at once. He was leading a second battle patrol toward the 
cliff top. Willowpelt, Whitestorm, and Sandpaw raced at his 
heels. Suddenly RiverClan was outnumbered. 

Leopardfur leaped to her paws to face them, but 


Tigerclaw had already crashed into Wleclaw, knocking him 
away from Deadfoot. The dark tabby grabbed the RiverClan 
tom with his forepaws and flung himto the ground. Wleclaw 
rolled and tried to find his paws, but Tigerclaw snapped like 
a fox at his hind leg and sank his teeth deep into the 
RiverClan tom’s fur. 

Voleclaw’s pelt bushed. He clawed his way across the 
grass, kicking free of Tigerclaw, and pelted into the bushes 
in panic. 

Leopardfur leaped for Tigerclaw. Before she could reach 
him, Willowpelt clawed her tail, ripping down to the bone. 
Pain searing through her pelt, Leopardfur turned, hissing, on 
the ThunderClan she-cat and slashed her claws across her 
muzzle. Willowpelt glared at her with rage and reared, lifting 
a paw to hit back. Leopardfur felt alarm flare in her belly. 
Whiteclaw was grappling with Graystripe. Fireheart and 
Whitestorm batted Reedtail back down the path. Deadfoot 
lunged at Piketooth, surprisingly deft despite his lame paw 
now that he faced only one warrior. Sedgecreek was 
crouched against the earth, hitting back with desperate jabs 
as Onewhisker and Sandpaw loomed over her. If Leopardfur 
and her Clanmates were going to get out of here with their 
lives, she would have to fight like a fox. 

She leaped for Willowpelt, so fast that the ThunderClan 
she-cat didn’t have time to land the blow she’d aimed at 
Leopardfur’s muzzle. Slamming her head into Willowpelt’s 


chest, she knocked her flying, then turned to help Piketooth. 
She’d drive Deadfoot off first, then deal with the others. 

“Help Sedgecreek,” she yowled at Piketooth as she 
darted past him and hooked her claws into Deadfoot’s 
shoulders. Piketooth whirled away, and she pulled Deadfoot 
onto his weakest paw, feeling a spark of triumph as he 
collapsed beneath her. She let him drop. He was as helpless 
now as a wriggling fish. She lunged for his neck, but before 
she could give him a bite vicious enough to send him 
fleeing, claws sank into her scruff. Strong paws jerked her 
backward, and shock pulsed through her as she turned her 
head and saw Tigerclaw’s eyes glittering beside her cheek. 
How dare he attack her when he’d acted like her ally? “What 
in StarClan—” 

He thrust her viciously to the ground, the full weight of 
him burying her muzzle into the wet earth. “You see?” His 
low hiss sounded in her ear as she choked on mud. “I’m 
prepared to hurt even a cat I admire to protect my Clan.” 

Did he think this was a lesson? Rage roared in her ears. 
Her heart bursting, she dug all four paws into the ground 
and pushed up, every hair on her pelt spiking with the effort. 
She felt him budge and pushed hard as he tilted to one side, 
his paws slithering in the mud as he struggled to keep his 
balance. I’ve got him. She adjusted her weight, pressing her 
advantage, pushing him further over. She felt him slide from 
her back and, with a final shove, felt a rush of elation as he 





thumped onto his side. She was about to twist on her hind 
legs to slash at his ears when a terrified shriek seemed to 
make the raindrops shiver around her. 

She froze. Around her, the battle stopped as every face 
turned toward the sound. She saw eyes widen in horror, and 
her breath stopped as she followed their gazes toward the 
cliff top. 

Graystripe crouched on the grass, staring over the edge, 
his pelt bushed. 

Leopardfur darted to his side. Dread hollowed her belly 
and she stiffened, as though her body knew what her mind 
refused to imagine. She followed his gaze down the sheer 
cliff face to the water raging below. A dark head bobbed for a 
moment in the white water, then disappeared. 

A yowl ripped itself from Leopardfur’s throat. 
“Whiteclaw! No!” 





CHAPTER 14 
Se 


Leopardfur wasn t sure how she got back to camp. She could 
remember grass beneath her paws, the river tugging at her 
pelt, her Clanmates around her; sometimes a shoulder had 
propped her up. 

At the gorge, Fireheart had tried to make excuses. 
Graystripe had claimed he’d tried to save the young tom. But 
she heard them as though she were behind a waterfall, their 
voices lost in the roar of her grief. 

When she found herself back at the camp, she felt so 
numb that it seemed as though she’d died along with 
Whiteclaw and was no more than a ghost. And then 
Beetlenose had asked her where Whiteclaw was, and she 
could only stare at him. Piketooth had to explain, and as he 
told the young warrior’s father that his kit had died, the 
shock that had wrapped Leopardfur so tightly suddenly 
loosened its grip, and she’d crumbled like a rotten branch, 
her thoughts dissolving into darkness. 

She opened her eyes now and saw the medicine den. 
Starlight was filtering through the walls and she blinked, 
puzzled. “Why am I here?” 

“You needed to rest.” Mudfur’s soft mew seemed to 
welcome her back from a long journey. He was gazing into 
the nest where she was curled, and she stared at him, 


thinking she should raise her head, but she couldn’t. Her 
body had become like the river, shaped and guided by the 
earth around it, with no will ofits own. 

“Am I hurt?” she asked him. 

“Not physically,” he murmured. “But not all injuries are 
physical.” 

She wondered what he meant but didn’t ask. She only 
wanted to sleep and sleep until what happened at the gorge 
wasn’t the only thing she could think about. She closed her 
eyes and let herself sink into darkness. 

“Leopardfur.” Sunfish’s mew brought an explosion of 
light. She could feel warmth on her pelt, healing the pain 
she’d been fighting to escape. She opened her eyes and, 
dreaming still, saw her friend. Sunfish’s pelt glowed with 
stars. Her eyes shone as though moonlight blazed behind 
them. She had never looked so beautiful. Leopardfur lifted 
her muzzle, reaching for the light and happiness that seemed 
to enfold Sunfish. Then, suddenly, she was at the gorge and 
Sunfish was beside her and there, lying on the ground, was 
Whiteclaw’s bedraggled body. It was bloody and battered, 
pounded by the river so that he was barely recognizable. 
And his eyes were white and empty. 

“How could you let this happen?” Sunfish blinked at her. 
There was no reproach in her eyes, only grief so raw and 
desperate that Leopardfur’s heart seemed to split in two. 
“You promised to watch over him.” Her eyes reflected the 


deep, sharp pain Leopardfur felt. “You promised—” 

A paw prodded her. Some cat was shaking her shoulder. 
Some cat who was real. Some cat who was alive. Is it 
Whiteclaw? Was he here? Was he going to tell her it had all 
been a nightmare? She jerked up her head and blinked into 
sunshine that was slicing through the den. 

Voleclaw pulled back his paw and looked at her 
anxiously. 

It wasn’t Whiteclaw. Disappointment snatched her 
breath. 

Woleclaw began talking. “You have to recover” he 
mewed. “I know you’re hurting, but you can’t stay in the 
medicine den. The Clan’s hurting too. They need to know 
you're okay. Patrols need organizing. Heavypaw’s ready for 
his assessment and...” 

She watched him talk, but his words seemed 
meaningless. What did it matter? The Clan would manage 
without her. They might do better if she stayed away. “They 
have Crookedstar,” she mewed emptily. 

“But you know where prey’s been running,” Wleclaw 
mewed. “And which borders have been marked. We need 
you.” 

She stared at him. Why couldn’t he leave her alone? 
Whiteclaw was dead. He’d been killed on her watch, just like 
his mother and his mentor. It was more than she could bear. 
“Tve made too many mistakes.” She thrust her muzzle 


beneath her paw, closed her eyes, and fled back into sleep. 

When she woke next, she felt a brittle sense of clarity as 
she lifted her head and looked around the medicine den. 

“Frogleap?” She blinked in surprise as she saw him 
sitting beside her nest. 

He nosed a dripping wad of moss toward her. “You must 
be thirsty,” he mewed. “Drink from this.” 

He was right. Her mouth was parched and she was 
hungry too, as though she hadn’t eaten in moons. “How 
long have I been in here?” 

“Nearly five days,” he told her. He pushed the moss 
closer. “Drink.” 

She lapped the moss, relishing the cold water, then 
sucked it like a kit, squeezing out the last drops with her 
tongue. 

Whiteclaw was dead. Her heart seemed to recoil as 
though clawed by the thought, but the grief didn’t engulf 
her entirely this time. She took a breath and let the pain 
settle like river mud, leaving her thoughts as clear as spring 
water. “Why are you here?” She looked past him. “Did 
Mudfur tell you to come?” 

“Tve been worried about you.” His amber gaze was soft. 

“Why?” She was puzzled. “You must hate me.” 

He blinked at her, surprised. “Why would I hate you?” 

“Its my fault Whiteclaw died,” she mewed. “And I 
nearly got Mosspelt killed. And your kits would have .. .” 


She swallowed. Mosspelt was having his kits. Suddenly, all 
the choices she’d made seemed to have been wrong. She’d 
been following the wrong path. She should have become his 
mate and had his kits, and then Whiteclaw would be alive 
and the Clan would be happy. 

“You didn’t kill Whiteclaw,” Frogleap mewed. “And you 
rescued Mosspelt.” 

“But I took them both—” 

“You took them both on patrol,” Frogleap told her. 
“They were warriors and your Clanmates. You did nothing 
wrong.” He was looking into Leopardfur’s eyes now so 
intently that she wanted to look away. 

Her heart ached with a new pain. “I should have put love 
first,” she mewed. “I should have kept you by my side. I 
miss you.” 

She saw the fur around his neck prickle uncomfortably 
and felt hot with embarrassment. She shouldn’t have said 
anything. 

“I miss you too,” he mewed quietly. “And I wonder what 
it would have been like if we’d stayed together.” He held her 
gaze for a moment, then looked away. “But we chose to 
separate for a reason, and that reason hasn’t gone away. I 
love Mosspelt now, but you’ll always be special to me. You 
must never feel alone.” He lifted his chin. “PI always be 
here. As your friend.” 

She felt a twinge of sadness, as though he’d pulled her 


closer and pushed her away at the same time. But, after 
everything that had happened, she should be grateful. She 
was grateful. She hadn’t lost himas a friend after all. 

He fetched her a trout from the fresh-kill pile and stayed 
long enough to make sure she ate it. When he’d left, she 
dozed a little, waking after sunhigh to eat herbs Mudfur had 
prepared for her. 

“Silverstream wants to see you,” Mudfur told her as she 
swallowed the bitter mixture. He nosed a fish tail toward her 
to take away the taste. 

Leopardfur lapped it gratefully. “Is she okay?” 

“She seems a little distracted,” Mudfur told her. “I told 
her you’d see her.” He looked at her hopefully. “Will you?” 

“Yes.” Leopardfur felt ready to face her Clanmates, if 
only one at a time and while cocooned in a nest. 

Mudfur touched his nose to her ear. “I’m glad you’re 
feeling better,’ he mewed softly. “I’ve been worried about 
you.” 

“Pll be okay.” She blinked at him reassuringly. “I’m your 
kit, don’t forget. Pm a survivor.” 

He purred and padded from the den. A moment later, 
Silverstream nosed her way through the moss at the 
entrance. 

“Hi.” Her blue eyes glittered in the shadow of the den. 
She sat down beside Leopardfur's nest. “Are you feeling 
better?” 


“Yes.” She sat up. “Is Crookedstar organizing the 
patrols?” 

She nodded. “Timberfur and Piketooth are helping him, 
but we’ve been hunting the same places over and over again 
and prey has been scarce.” 

Leopardfur guessed that Crookedstar was still avoiding 
the river around Sunningrocks and probably fretting about 
sending patrols near the WindClan border. He needed to be 
reminded that it was unwise to fish the same stretch of river 
too much, and she knew a few places in the woods that were 
good for hunting when shore prey was in short supply. She 
would have to tell him about them. 

She looked at Silverstream. Her tail was twitching 
anxiously. Was something else worrying the gray tabby she- 
cat? “You wanted to see me?” 

“T wish Pd come to the gorge with you, 
guiltily. “Instead of staying with Crookedstar.” 

Leopardfur felt a rush of sympathy. She knew what it 
was like to wonder what would have happened if she’d made 
different choices. “Crookedstar needed you,” she mewed. 
“And you needed to be with him. He nearly died.” She 
shifted in her nest. Strength seemed to be flowing back to 
her paws. They itched to be outside. “Not even StarClan can 
change what happened at the gorge. The patrol was 
outnumbered. Your being there wouldn’t have made any 
difference. It would have just meant another of my 


> 


she mewed 


Clanmates was in danger.” She held Silverstream’s gaze. “I’m 
glad you were safe in camp.” 

Silverstream stared at her. There still seemed to be a 
question in her eyes, something that she hadn’t said yet. 

“What's wrong?” Leopardfur asked gently. “Is 
something else troubling you?” 

“I heard that it was Graystripe who . . .” Her mew trailed 
away as though she couldn’t bring herself to mention 
Whiteclaw’s death. 

“You can say it,” Leopardfur growled. “Graystripe killed 
Whiteclaw. He probably organized the whole ambush. I’m 
going to make him sorry he ever—” 

Silverstream interrupted. “But J heard that Graystripe 
tried to save Whiteclaw.” 

Leopardfur’s pelt bristled. How had ThunderClan’s lies 
gotten into RiverClan’s camp? “Who told you that?” 

“I just heard that’s what he said,” Silverstream mewed 
quickly. 

“Tt’s a lie!” 

“Did you see him push Whiteclaw over the cliff?” 
Silvers tream was staring at her. 

“I didn’t have to!” Leopardfur forced her paws to stop 
trembling. “Graystripe was leaning over the edge. It was 
obvious he pushed him.” 

Silverstream looked away. “I guess.” When she lifted her 
gaze again, the question seemed to have cleared from it. “It’s 


not fair Whiteclaw died. Pm going to miss him. He was a 
great warrior.” 

There was an emptiness in her mew. Like a dutiful kit 
reciting nursery rules. /t must be grief. It must be more than 
she can bear. Why else would the she-cat sound so cold? 

Leopardfur wondered suddenly if she should tell 
Silverstream how Whiteclaw had felt about her. They could 
have been so happy together. She felt her eyes glisten as a 
wave of fresh grief swamped her. But she swallowed it back. 
What good would it do to tell Silverstream that Whiteclaw 
had had feelings for her? If Silverstream didn’t feel the same 
way, Whiteclaw wouldn’t want her to know. And, if she did, 
it would only cause the young she-cat even more pain to 
think of the future she might have had with him. 

Mudfur slid into the den. “Let Leopardfur rest,” he told 
Silvers tream. 

Silverstream looked at her “She’s going to be okay, 
though, isn’t she?” 

“Of course.” Mudfur waved her toward the entrance 
with his tail. “She just needs to get her strength back.” 

Leopardfur watched Silverstream disappear through the 
trailing moss. Her paws pricked. Even if it was grief, there 
had been something in Silverstream’s tone and in her 
questions that left her with a lingering sense of unease. She 
couldn’t help thinking that there was something the she-cat 
wasn’t telling her. 


Mudfur padded to Leopardfur’s nest. “Do you want 
something fromthe fresh-kill pile?” 

“Maybe later,” she told him. She wanted her Clanmates 
to have the first pick of prey before he brought her some. 
She blinked at him, her heart pricking with affection. 
“Thanks for taking care of me,” she mewed, remembering the 
last time they’d spoken about her being deputy. He still had 
doubts that she was right for the job. She’d been so 
frustrated. But now, for the first time in a long time, 
Leopardstar felt he might be right. Shame burned beneath 
her pelt. “I don’t deserve so much kindness.” 

His eyes widened. “Why not?” 

“We all know it’s my fault Whiteclaw died,” she told him, 
another wave of sadness washing over her. Sunfish’ kit. 1 
loved him as my own, and I couldnt protect him. Despair 
overwhelmed her, but she might as well be honest about it. 
Frogleap had let her off easy because he was kind. Mudfur 
would be more honest. Leopardfur knew she must face up to 
what she’d done, and she was ready. 

“You are not responsible for everything that happens to 
every cat,” he told her firmly. 

“But he rushed into battle because of me.” The memory 
of him racing ahead to confront the ThunderClan patrol had 
stuck with her like a fish bone in her throat. “If I hadn’t 
always been so determined that no Clan should trespass on 
our land, he wouldn’t have been so quick to fight.” Guilt 


wormed beneath Leopardfur’s pelt. “You warned me that I’m 
always too quick to fight. Oakheart and Crookedstar warned 
me too.” Her chest tightened. “I must have taught 
Whiteclaw to feel the same way. And that’s why he died at 
the gorge.” 

Mudfur moved closer, fixing her gaze with his. “You 
taught him how to be a skilled warrior,’ he mewed. “You 
taught him how to be brave. And Whiteclaw isn’t the only 
warrior who would have rushed to fight them. Don’t forget, 
ThunderClan was on our land.” 

“But if he hadn’t?” 

“If he hadn’t, would you have let them pass?” Mudfur 
asked. 

“Is that what I should have done?” 

“I can’t imagine any deputy letting trespassers go 
unchallenged.” 

She blinked at him, suddenly longing for forgiveness. 
“Perhaps one who isn’t as hotheaded as me.” 

He looked puzzled. “Are you doubting yourself?” 

“Why not? You doubt me.” She searched his gaze, 
longing to see that it wasn’t true. 

He blinked. “No, I don’t.” 

“But you told Crookedstar not to choose me as deputy.” 

His pelt ruffled uncomfortably along his spine. 

She went on. “Pm sorry. Pm not supposed to know that. 
But he told me when he was delirious with fever.” 


Mudfur glanced at his paws, his whiskers drooping. “It’s 
not what you think.” 

“But you did tell him not to choose me.” Leopardstar 
watched him carefully, waiting for him to respond. It was 
true, this fact that had hurt so deeply when she’d first 
learned about it. And now, finally, he would tell her what 
she’d wondered about since the moment Crookedstar had 
first said it: Why? 

“T did,” he conceded, looking up at her “But not 
because I thought you weren’t capable. Pve seen how you 
care for the Clan. ’ve seen your passion and commitment. I 
still think you’ll be a great leader. I haven’t forgotten that my 
vision told me you’d save the Clan one day, and I still 
believe it. But I worry you'll choose to save them through 
war instead of peace, and I’m scared you’ll live to regret it.” 

His words pricked at her. There was truth in them. She’d 
always been ready to fight for her Clan. Perhaps too ready. 
And so many cats she loved had died. 

Maybe now it was time to take a breath. She could try 
making different choices. She blinked at Mudfur. “There is 
truth in what you say. But Whiteclaw’s death has shown me 
what happens when a warrior reacts with instinct and not 
reason.” 

He pricked his ears. “Really?” 

“Really,” she promised. “I may never be as tolerant as 
Crookedstar, but I never want to feel this way again. I never 


want to have to ask myself again if I’m the reason one of my 
Clanmates died.” 

“Pm glad.” A purr rumbled in his throat. “I meant what I 
said when you were a kit, Leopardfur. If you can find the 
right balance between keeping the peace and protecting the 
Clan, I think you’ll be one of the greatest leaders RiverClan 
has ever had.” 

Leopardfur felt her heart lighten, and a little of her guilt 
melted away. She’d made a mistake, and the ache of it would 
always be with her But her father believed she could 
change. She’d recover and become stronger. Tomorrow, 
she’d leave the medicine den. She’d let go of the cat she’d 
been. She’d put reason ahead of instinct, and she’d push 
away any lingering dreams of a different life with Frogleap. 
Instead, she’d give her whole heart to being the best deputy 
she could be—a deputy RiverClan deserved. 





CHAPTER 15 
¥ 


Leopardfur paused outside the medicine den. She didn’t 
want to hear more bad news. Cold weather was biting harder 
into the camp. In the moon since Whiteclaw had died, the 
fresh-kill pile had dwindled as leaf-bare tightened its grip. 
The Clan had gone to their nests hungry more than once as 
land prey grew scarce and heavy rain, then ice, made the 
river almost impossible to fish. 

And now there was sickness. Sedgecreek, Shadepelt, 
and Mallowtail were already in the medicine den, and now 
Mudfur asked to see her. Was he going to report that 
another Clanmate had been stricken with the illness that 
seemed to be spreading like fleas through the camp? 

Her father ducked out into the camp, his eyes dark. 

Had she guessed right? Was another Clanmate sick? 
“Who is it?” 

“Tanglewhisker” Mudfur’s tail twitched uneasily. “I’ve 
moved him to the medicine den, but Birdsong might have 
already caught it. m keeping an eye on her.” 

“Do you know yet if it’s whitecough?” Leopardfur 
hoped it wasn’t more serious. An outbreak of greencough 
could devastate the Clan. 

“Tm still not sure,” Mudfur confessed. “I only know that 
none of my herbs can cure it.” 


“Will they die?” 

“T don’t know,” he mewed. “Sedgecreek has stopped 
taking even water. Shadepelt’s fever is getting worse. 
Nothing I give them seems to help.” 

Leopardfur felt a fresh wave of anxiety. Mudfur spent 
every moment with his patients. “What if you catch it?” 

“We'd better pray to StarClan that I don’t,” he mewed. 
“There’s no other medicine cat to look after the Clan.” 

She met his gaze. She wasn’t worried about looking after 
the Clan. She’d find a way to do that if she had to. What 
scared her most was that Mudfur might die. 

He seemed to read her thoughts. “I’m a survivor, don’t 
forget,” he mewed. 

“Would it help if there were more food to eat?” Had she 
let her Clan down by allowing the fresh-kill pile to shrink? 
Guilt tugged at her belly. Could she have sent out more 
patrols? 

Inside the medicine den, Sedgecreek started coughing. 
Mudfur turned to head back inside. 

“Do you need more herbs?” Leopardfur suddenly felt 
scared of letting him out of her sight. 

“Not yet,” he answered grimly and disappeared inside. 

“Leopardfur!” Blackclaw’s mew made her tum. The 
smoky warrior was heading across the frosty clearing, 
Heavystep at his heels. The fur along his spine was rippling 
anxiously. 


What now? Leopardfur hurried to meet him. “Has 
something happened?” 

“We’ve found ThunderClan scent on our territory,” 
Blackclaw told her. 

“Near Sunningrocks,” Heavystep added urgently. “They 
must want even more of our hunting grounds.” 

“They must be planning an attack,” Blackclaw mewed. 

Leopardfur’s tail twitched. Could there be another 
ambush, like the one that killed Whiteclaw? A moon ago, 
she’d have been bristling with rage, but now only fear 
pulsed beneath her pelt. “Go back and find evidence,” she 
told Blackclaw. “A twig or some grass with ThunderClan 
scent on it.” 

Blackclaw’s eyes widened. “Don’t you believe us?” 

“We’ll need proof to take to the Gathering,” she told him. 

“We can’t wait for the Gathering,” Blackclaw argued. 
“We have to deal with this now. ThunderClan cats have 
been snooping around on our land.” 

Her ears twitched irritably. “And what would you have 
me do?” she asked. “Launch an attack on their camp? 
Ambush one of their patrols?” 

“We need to let them know that if they cross our border, 
they’ ll face a fight,” Blackclaw growled. 

Heavystep’s tail was lashing. “We should send a patrol 
to confront them.” 

“There’s sickness in the Clan,” Leopardfur reminded him. 


“It’s nearly leaf-bare, and we're hungry. We’re in no shape 
to confront ThunderClan. The last thing Mudfur needs is 
more cats to care for.” 

Blackclaw flexed his claws. “I thought you’d want to 
stand up to them.” 

He’d watched her chase WindClan warriors from their 
territory not long ago. She’d been so sure of herself then. 
How long ago that seemed—before Whiteclaw died on her 
watch, before leaf-bare, and before the sickness. “The last 
time we confronted ThunderClan, Whiteclaw died. This time, 
I want proof before we act,” she told him. “Go back and look 
for it. But keep your heads down. Act like you’re looking for 
prey. Don’t make it obvious.” 

Blackclaw scowled. “Do you want us to act like 
trespassers on our own land?” 

“Of course not,” she snapped. “But I don’t want you to 
provoke ThunderClan. If they are planning an attack, ’mnot 
giving theman excuse.” 

Blackclaw swished his tail angrily. “I never imagined 
you’d be intimidated by ThunderClan.” 

“I just want RiverClan to be safe.” Frustration jabbed 
Leopardfur’s belly. Surely Blackclaw understood! 

He turned away, growling to himself. Heavystep glanced 
back at her, then followed his former mentor out of camp. 

She watched them leave, pressing back the feeling that 
she’d let them down. /ts for the best, she told herself, 


hoping it was true. 


Bright moonlight bathed Fourtrees. Frost sparkled on the 
grass, and the earth was frozen beneath Leopardfur’s paws 
as she followed Crookedstar across the clearing. Their 
Clanmates headed away to share tongues with the other 
Clans, and Mudfur joined Yellowfang and Runningnose 
beneath the trees. She’d had to persuade Mudfur to join the 
Gathering patrol, and he’d only agreed after Shimmerpelt and 
Beetlenose had promised not to leave his patients and to 
send for him immediately if they got worse. 

Leopardfur kept close to Crookedstar as he wove 
between the warriors crowding in the clearing. The scent of 
WindClan make her hackles itch. It was their first Gathering 
since ThunderClan had brought them home, and the prey- 
rich moor was beyond RiverClan’s reach now. Her Clan was 
hungry, and the border was freshly marked every moming, 
as though WindClan was making sure every RiverClan cat 
knew they would never again be allowed to cross it. 

Crookedstar glanced at her as they reached the Great 
Rock. “Remember, let me do the talking. This is a delicate 
matter.” 

She’d told him about the ThunderClan scent found near 
Sunningrocks, although Blackclaw’s second patrol hadn’t 
produced any more evidence than the first. And Crookedstar 
had agreed with her that there was already enough tension 
between the Clans now that WindClan was back, and he 


didn’t want to risk a war. But he’d taken Blackclaw and 
Heavystep’s report seriously and wouldn’t let the Gathering 
pass without saying something about ThunderClan’s 
trespassing. 

He blinked at her. “Okay?” 

“Okay.” She had no intention of speaking up. There’d 
been a time when his caution would have insulted her, but 
now she understood it. She wanted Crookedstar to see that 
she was the best deputy she could be. And a good deputy 
knew it was better to keep quiet than risk starting a war they 
couldn’t win. 

As he leaped into the Great Rock, something moved in 
the shadows beside her She stiffened as she smelled 
Tigerclaw’s scent. 

The ThunderClan deputy stalked into the moonlight and 
sat beside her. “You'll let Crookedstar do the talking?” He 
glanced at her. “What happened to the fierce young deputy 
who was willing to say what she thought at Gatherings?” 

She bristled, remembering their strange conversation 
after the Gathering where she’d spoken out of turn. At the 
time, she’d found him convincing; now, she was still angry 
that he’d attacked her at the gorge. She wasn’t sure whether 
he sincerely wanted her to speak her mind, but she did know 
that this was a warrior that would say one thing and do 
another. And still, she couldn’t help admiring how sure he 
seemed of himself. She wished she were so confident. Right 


now she seemed only able to react to events, while he 
seemed to anticipate them. Remembering how he’d 
encouraged her to confide in him before, she wondered 
whether Tigerclaw had actually had a paw in making those 
events happen. Perhaps he was playing with every cat, like 
they were mice in his thrall. 

He blinked at her coolly. “What delicate matter was 
Crookedstar talking about?” 

“You'll find out at the same time as every other cat,” she 
snapped. 

“Do you agree with him this time?” 

“Of course I agree with him. He’s my leader.” She fluffed 
out her fur self-consciously. Did he think she’d become a 
pushover? “I can’t disagree with him all the time.” 

His whiskers twitched. “I suppose it’s a tricky balance.” 

“PI do whatever I think is best for my Clan.” 

“Tm sure you will.” He tucked his tail over his paws. “I 
should warn you. I’m going to say some things tonight that 
might ruffle a few pelts. But if I mention RiverClan, don’t 
take it personally.” He gazed across the crowd. “I just want 
to shake things up a little.” 

Shake things up? She tensed. What did he mean? 

Bluestar’s angry yowl sounded above. The ThunderClan 
leader was glaring at Crookedstar while Tallstar and 
Nightstar watched uneasily. 

“RiverClan has been hunting at Sunningrocks!” Bluestar 


snarled. 

Leopardfur’s eyes widened. That wasn’t true! Was the 
ThunderClan leader trying to cover her Clan’s tracks by 
making the first accusation? 

Crookedstar returned her gaze. “Have you forgotten how 
recently one of our warriors was killed defending our 
territory from ThunderClan?” 

One of our warriors. Leopardfur’s heart lurched. 
Whiteclaw. Would ThunderClan apologize? But Bluestar 
seemed determined to argue. 

“There was no need to defend your territory,’ she 
snapped. “Our warriors weren’t hunting there.” 

Tigerclaw hadn’t moved. His gaze betrayed nothing as 
the Clan leaders accused each other of trespassing until 
Leopardfur wondered if RiverClan was the only Clan that 
hadnt crossed a border in the past moon. She scanned the 
crowd. If the other Clans had been trespassing, would they 
give themselves away? Her gaze settled on Graystripe and 
Fireheart. They were sitting close together, like always, 
resembling a pair of smug owls. As Crookedstar accused a 
ThunderClan cat of crossing the RiverClan border, Fireheart 
seemed to stiffen. He glanced at Graystripe, and Leopardfur 
narrowed her eyes. Why did he look so alarmed? Were they 
the trespassers? 

Suddenly, Tigerclaw growled beside her. “We have 
scented ShadowClan in our territory as well as RiverClan 


this past moon. And not just one cat but a whole patrol, 
always the same cats.” 

She stared at him. What in StarClan was he talking 
about? A RiverClan patrol on ThunderClan territory? She 
hadn’t ordered it. Neither had Crookedstar. Her tail quivered. 
Was this what Tigerclaw had meant by shaking things up? 

Nightstar glared indignantly at Tigerclaw. “ShadowClan 
has not been on your territory!” When Tigerclaw snorted in 
disbelief, the ShadowClan leader glared down even more 
angrily. “Do you doubt the word of ShadowClan, 
Tigerclaw?” 

The crowd murmured uncomfortably as Tigerclaw stared 
back at Nightstar with unconcealed distrust, and for the first 
time, Tallstar spoke. 

“My warriors have also found strange scents in 
WindClan territory. They seem to be ShadowClan.” 

Tigerclaw’s eyes lit up, as though this was the reaction 
he’d been looking for. “I knew it!” he snarled. “RiverClan 
and ShadowClan have united against us.” 

As Crookedstar spat with indignation and Tallstar 
bristled, Leopardfur blinked at Tigerclaw. 

“Ts this what you wanted?” she demanded. 

He blinked back at her without answering, his gaze 
betraying nothing. 

Suddenly, the Fourtrees clearing seemed to be 
swallowed by shadow. Leopardfur looked up. Clouds had 


covered the moon. 

A ThunderClan elder yowled in alarm. “StarClan has sent 
the darkness!” 

Runningnose yowled from beside Mudfur. “StarClan is 
angry. These meetings are meant to be held in peace.” 

Within moments, the leaders had leaped down from the 
Great Rock, and the Clans began to break apart, heading for 
the slopes. Leopardfur felt suddenly cold. Have we really 
offended StarClan? 

Tigerclaw got to his paws and headed away without 
speaking. 

Leopardfur watched him go, unease spreading beneath 
her pelt. He’d looked so pleased. This must be what he’d 
intended by shaking things up. But what exactly was the 
ThunderClan deputy playing at? He must be lying. As far as 
she knew, no RiverClan cat had been near ThunderClan 
territory. Was Tigerclaw trying to cause a war between the 
Clans? 


“Wake up.” 

Leopardfur jerked up her muzzle as paws poked her 
shoulder. “What is it?” She struggled from sleep, blinking 
open her eyes. Dawn light was filtering through the den 
roof, and Skyheart was staring into her nest. 

“Nightstar is here,” the pale brown tabby mewed. “He's 
talking to Crookedstar.” 

Leopardfur scrambled from her nest. She’d slept in late 


after last night’s Gathering, but the ShadowClan leader 
clearly had not. “When did he arrive?” she asked Skyheart. 

“Just now,” Skyheart told her. “He just appeared at the 
entrance.” 

“He crossed our territory without an escort?” 
Leopardfur’s pelt pricked nervously. It must be important to 
risk giving such an insult. Unless Nightstar was becoming 
as arrogant as Brokenstar. 

“He apologized,’ Skyheart mewed. “But he said it 
couldn't wait. He had to speak with Crookedstar.” 

Leopardfur picked her way between her Clanmates’ 
nests. They were beginning to stir, stretching and yawning, 
though not quite awake. She ducked out of the den and 
hurried across the icy clearing, following Nightstar’s scent 
to Crookedstar’s den. 

“Crookedstar?” She paused outside. “Is Nightstar with 
you?” 

“Come in.” Crookedstar blinked a welcome as she slid 
through the trailing moss. He was sitting beside Nightstar in 
the gloomy half-light, his tail tucked over his paws. 

She dipped her head to the ShadowClan leader. “What 
brings you here so soon after the Gathering?” Couldn’t he 
have said what he wanted to say to Crookedstar last night? 

“I want to make sure our alliance still stands,” Nightstar 
told her. 

“Why?” Leopardfur stared at him. “WindClan is back. 


There’s no way we can share their land now.” 

“This isn’t about their land,” Nightstar mewed. “It’s 
about survival.” 

Crookedstar’s expression was grave. “I’m beginning to 
believe that ThunderClan brought WindClan back to start a 
war,” he mewed. 

“They’ve been planning to move against us all along,” 
Nightstar chimed. “They just needed WindClan’s support.” 

Crookedstar nodded. “You heard them last night,” he 
mewed to Leopardfur. “Allthose accusations. They’re just 
trying to find an excuse to attack us.” 

“Wait.” Leopardfur took a breath, trying to resist the 
urgency and fear in the two leaders’ eyes. If Tigerclaw had 
intended to shake things up last night, he had certainly 
succeeded. But he’d lied to do it. RiverClan hadn’t been on 
ThunderClan land. Should she share her suspicions about 
the ThunderClan deputy? She hesitated. It might make 
Crookedstar and Nightstar more determined to form an 
alliance. They’d assume Tigerclaw and Bluestar spoke with 
the same voice and that his lies were part of ThunderClan’s 
plot. Besides, part of her was still curious about Tigerclaw’s 
motivations; if he had come up with a scheme, she could 
learn something by watching it play out. “Won’t declaring 
an alliance provoke ThunderClan more?” she mewed. “It 
might just prove their suspicions about us are right.” 

Crookedstar narrowed his eyes. “It’s not like you to hold 


back in the face of aggression.” 

“They haven’t attacked us yet,” she told him. “I think we 
should wait.” 

He frowned. “I should be pleased you’ve learned to 
manage your temper. But I wish you hadn’t decided to do it 
now.” 

Nightstar was staring eamestly at the RiverClan leader. 
“We need to declare our alliance sooner rather than later,” he 
urged. “Runningnose had a dream a few days ago that 
darkness was coming. He thinks war is coming to the Clans. 
If it is, I want a strong Clan to fight beside. A Clan like 
RiverClan.” 

Crookedstar fluffed out his fur proudly, but Leopardfur 
cut in before he could speak. 

“Won’t war come sooner if we declare an alliance against 
ThunderClan and WindClan?” she argued. 

“We don’t have to declare it,” Crookedstar told her. “It'll 
simply ensure our mutual safety.” 

Leopardfur shifted her paws. He might be right. 
Blackclaw had found ThunderClan scent on RiverClan land. 
Bluestar could be scouting in preparation for an attack. Leaf- 
bare hunger—and the sickness spreading through RiverClan 
—had made them weak. An alliance could be the best way to 
protect the Clan. 

Crookedstar was looking at her expectantly. She dipped 
her head. “RiverClan needs an ally,” she conceded. “And 


ShadowClan has proved trustworthy in the past.” 

“Good.” Crookedstar pulled his tail tighter over his 
forepaws. “Then the alliance stands.” He blinked at 
Nightstar. “But it shouldn’t simply be a defensive treaty. I’m 
certain that ThunderClan and WindClan are looking for an 
excuse to attack us. And I think we should make the first 
move.” 





CHAPTER 16 
+ 


Dawn light glittered on the snow capping the thick heather 
wall of the WindClan camp. Leopardfur shifted her paws as 
she sat between her Clanmates. The battle had gone well. 
Blackclaw, Skyheart, Stonefur, and Heavystep looked 
pleased. Their pelts hardly showed a scratch. Crookedstar 
and Nightstar had made the right decision when they’d 
decided to target WindClan first and take the fight right into 
their camp. Most of WindClan’s warriors were still scrawny 
from their exile, and though they’d fought bravely, the patrol 
of RiverClan and ShadowClan warriors had easily 
overwhelmed them. 

Now WindClan was pinned down between the gorse 
dens of their own camp. RiverClan and ShadowClan warriors 
ringed them while Crookedstar and Nightstar addressed 
Tallstar. 

“You should never have returned home,” Crookedstar 
growled. 

“ThunderClan is using you,” Nightstar’s tail swished 
ominously. “Once they’ve used your warriors to take our 
land, they”ll turn on you too.” 

Tallstar glared at them, rage glittering in his eyes. “Don’t 
judge ThunderClan by ShadowClan standards.” 

His warriors crouched behind him, their tails lashing, 


their eyes slitted. Queens and elders huddled among them, 
along with Barkface, their medicine cat. Every WindClan cat 
had fought to defend their camp, and Leopardfur had been 
impressed how well the skinny warriors worked together, but 
it hadn’t been enough to chase the RiverClan and 
ShadowClan patrol away. 

“Just leave.” Crookedstar glared at Tallstar. “Before 
either we or ThunderClan drive you out again.” 

Tallstar turned away and began talking to his warriors in 
low whispers. 

Blackclaw shifted beside Leopardfur. “They have no 
choice but to leave,” he muttered. 

“ThunderClan will think twice about sending spies onto 
our land once their allies are gone,” Skyheart growled. 

Heavystep curled his claws into the earth. “We might 
even be able to take Sunningrocks back.” 

“Especially if ShadowClan helps.” Stonefur pressed his 
belly lower against the earth. 

Leopardfur’s pelt tingled nervously. For once, she 
wasn’t sure that RiverClan should press their advantage. It 
would be enough to drive WindClan away. ThunderClan 
would have to back off, and, until leaf-bare was over and the 
sickness gone from the camp, that was all she wanted. 
RiverClan wouldn't even need Sunningrocks. With 
WindClan gone, there’d be more land to hunt. Ending the 
war here, with a single battle, would be the safest choice. 


She stiffened as an unexpected scent touched her nose. 
It was fresh, drifting through the camp wall. Onewhisker? 
Why had the WindClan tom returned? He’d fled the battle. 
She’d watched him pelt out of camp, his tail bushed with 
terror, just as they’d forced WindClan to concede defeat. 
Had he crept back to see what was left of his Clan? 

Pelt prickling along her spine, Leopardfur crept toward 
the entrance. Her whiskers twitched uneasily. There were 
other scents, faintly discernible through the freezing air. 
Something was wrong. As she peered warily through the 
gorse tunnel, a yowl from the clearing made her jerk around. 

She bristled. Tallstar had leaped on top of Crookedstar. 
The WindClan leader was spitting, tumbling Crookedstar 
across the grass, clawing at him viciously. His warriors 
streaked from behind him and, despite their wounds, flung 
themselves at the ring of ShadowClan and RiverClan 
warriors. 

Shock pulsed through her. Was WindClan really willing 
to fight to the death? Even the queens threw themselves 
into battle once more. Morningflower leaped at Littlecloud, 
raking claws across his muzzle and screeching as he dragged 
her down and began to tear at her ragged pelt. 

Leopardfur hesitated. WindClan was hopelessly 
outnumbered. Her Clanmates were already clawing and 
slashing at them so fiercely that the battle would be over in 
moments. 


A shriek sounded beyond the heather camp wall. She 
glanced over her shoulder, her eyes widening as Onewhisker 
streaked through. Did the WindClan warrior think he could 
save his Clan single-pawed? She stiffened as another warrior 
raced after him, then another and another, and she 
recognized the strong stench of ThunderClan. Onewhisker 
had fetched help. Alarm shrilled through her fur as a 
ThunderClan patrol surged into the WindClan camp and 
spread out. 

She recognized Fireheart’s flaming pelt as he streaked 
across the clearing and ripped Littlecloud away from 
Mormingflower. The WindClan queen staggered, bleeding 
and exhausted, toward the edge of the camp as Fireheart 
pinned Littlecloud to the ground. 

Pain made Leopardfur spin around. Claws sliced her ear. 
Slitting her eyes and dropping into a battle crouch, she saw 
Stagleap rear in front of her. The WindClan straggler had 
rejoined his Clan. He brought his forepaws down on her 
shoulders with such force it knocked the wind from her, but 
she rolled, grabbed his pelt with her claws, and dragged him 
down, churning her hind paws against his belly. 

“This time leave with your Clan,” she hissed as she 
flung him away. 

As he landed, his paws splaying beneath him, a 
ThunderClan tom lunged at Leopardfur. She struggled to 
find her paws and he knocked her easily to the ground and 


held her there, raking her ears with his claws. She struggled 
free, ignoring the sting of her wounds, but Stagleap had 
found her again and snarled at her, aiming a blow at her 
muzzle. She ducked just in time and shot beneath him, 
heaving him up and twisting on her back paws to swipe at 
the ThunderClan tom, who was coming at her from the other 
direction. 

She backed away, the two toms glaring at her. The 
clearing was a mass of writhing pelts. Yowls and hisses filled 
the air. Her breath nearly stopped as she saw Graystripe lead 
a second ThunderClan patrol, howling, into the camp. 

WindClan seemed to have revived. Two WindClan toms 
rose together on their back paws and began to swat 
Skyheart toward the camp wall. 

Leopardfur dodged as Stagleap tried to claw her muzzle, 
but the ThunderClan tom hooked her scruff from behind and 
hauled her backward. She smelled his meaty breath and 
braced herself for his bite, but he staggered suddenly and let 
her go. 

Stonefur had slammed into his side and knocked him off 
balance. The RiverClan tom aimed blow after blow at his 
muzzle as the ThunderClan warrior tried to recover his 
balance. 

Leopardfur turned to deal with Stagleap, but Heavystep 
had already leaped on top of him and was rolling him away, 
his pelt spiked with rage. 


“Fireheart!” 

Leopardfur pricked her ears as she heard Tigerclaw’s cry. 
The ThunderClan deputy was hardly visible behind a wall of 
ShadowClan warriors. He sounded as though he was 
fighting for his life. 

She saw Fireheart charge toward him. Anger flared 
through her pelt. Tigerclaw would have to fight alone. 
Leopardfur had unfinished business with the flame-colored 
tom. As he streaked past, she lunged for him and grabbed 
his hind legs between her paws. 

“You!” she hissed as he thumped to the ground. He was 
going to pay for being part of the patrol that killed 
Whiteclaw. 

He kicked out at her. Surprise sparked in her belly as she 
tumbled away. He was strong. But stupid. As she jumped 
up, she saw he’d flipped onto his back, exposing his soft 
belly. Seeing her chance, Leopardfur reared and came down 
on top of him with all her might. She heard him grunt as she 
knocked the wind from him and dug her claws into his belly. 
He screeched in pain, his gaze rolling toward the end of the 
clearing where Tigerclaw had been battling. 

The ThunderClan deputy had ripped free of his attackers 
and was standing in an empty space in the battlefield. 
“Tigerclaw,” he yowled, “help me!” Leopardfur hesitated, 
but didn’t loosen her grip on Fireheart as he writhed 
desperately between her paws. Tigerclaw was watching 


them, his eyes cold with hatred. He didn’t move a paw to 
help. 

What is he doing? Leopardfur’s thoughts whirled. 
Doesnt he realize his Clanmate is in trouble? She clawed at 
Fireheart’s belly again and again. This tom was going to pay 
for what his friend had done to Whiteclaw. The smell of his 
blood filled her nose, and she aimed another blow, rage 
pounding in her ears. Suddenly, Fireheart kicked out. The 
speed and fierceness of the blow took her by surprise. It 
lifted her high and flung her across the clearing. 

She landed with a thump, disbelief sparking through her 
fur, and scrambled quickly to her paws, hoping no cat had 
noticed. You wont get rid of me that easily. Hissing, she 
shouldered her way through the crowd. She was going to 
finish this. But Fireheart was gone, swallowed by the battle. 

Lakeshine screeched with pain a tail-length away. A 
WindClan tom had clamped his jaws around her tail while a 
ThunderClan she-cat slashed at her muzzle. Leopardfur 
dived toward them, throwing a hefty blow that sent the 
ThunderClan she-cat reeling away. She clawed the WindClan 
tom’s ears until he let go, and as Lakeshine reared beside 
her, she lashed out at his nose. Together they batted him 
backward through the melee. 

Whitestorm pushed in front of her and knocked her 
down with a fierce swipe. The white warrior leaped at her, 
but she rolled clear just in time and leaped up, digging her 


claws into his flank. With a snarl, she pulled him close and 
pummeled him with her hind paws. 

Then she heard Nightstar screech. The ShadowClan 
leader was being driven backward by Fireheart. The 
ThunderClan tom dived forward and sank his teeth deep into 
Nightstar’s shoulder. 

Leopardfur knocked Whitestorm away. Panic was welling 
in her chest. The ShadowClan leader looked like he was 
fighting for his life. With a yowl, he struggled free of 
Fireheart’s grip and fled for the camp entrance. 

Eyes flashed toward him, and his warriors broke away 
from the battle and chased after him, racing like rats from the 
camp. 

Mouse-hearts! Dread gripped Leopardfur as she realized 
that RiverClan was suddenly alone and heavily 
outnumbered. 

Mousefur charged at her in a blaze of brown fur. The 
ThunderClan she-cat grabbed her pelt and dragged her 
down. Whitestorm was pushing his way back toward her. 
Leopardfur ripped free of Mousefur’s claws and reared as 
Whitestorm and Mousefur came at her, side by side. 
Leopardfur backed away, flailing with her forepaws as she 
tried desperately to fight them off. 

Where was Crookedstar? She glanced around the 
clearing. Her heart dropped as she saw the RiverClan leader 
face-to-face with Tigerclaw. The two warriors crouched low 


against the grass, their tails lashing menacingly. 

Crookedstar leaped first, but Tigerclaw was quicker. He 
jumped out of the way and, as the RiverClan leader hit bare 
grass, turned, and lunged at Crookedstar’s back. The 
ThunderClan deputy grasped the RiverClan leader with his 
long claws, and Leopardfur froze as Crookedstar went limp 
beneath him. As Tigerclaw bared his teeth and lunged for 
Crookedstar’s neck, a hefty blow from Whitestorm sent 
Leopardfur staggering backward. 

“Retreat!” Crookedstar’s desperate cry rang over the 
camp. The RiverClan leader had escaped Tigerclaw’s grip 
and was pelting for the entrance. 

Around her, RiverClan warriors were ripping free of the 
fight and racing after him. 

Leopardfur glanced at Whitestorm and Mousefur. 
They’d dropped down onto all fours and were glaring at her, 
clearly waiting for her to run. She snarled at them, 
humiliation searing her fur, then raced after Crookedstar. 

She glanced over her shoulder. Tigerclaw still stood 
where he’d defeated the RiverClan leader, watching her with 
amusement glittering in his eyes. Every hair on her pelt 
sparked with rage as she raced through the gorse tunnel and 
out onto the moor. 


The days following the battle were cold and the snow 
thick, but Leopardfur still sent out patrol after patrol to 
check for ThunderClan scent inside their borders. Her 


Clanmates were recovering from their wounds, and the 
sickness had stopped spreading. But the river had frozen, 
and prey was so scarce that she’d sent patrols to wait at the 
WindClan border for any land prey that crossed the scent 
line. 

She’d also taken the time to praise her Clanmates for 
their courage in battle. Stonefur in particular had shown a 
skill she hadn’t noticed before, and she looked at the young 
warrior with new respect. There was fierceness and 
solemnity in him that she admired. She even wondered if he 
would make a good mate for Silverstream. 

The silver-and-black she-cat seemed lonely. She had 
been keeping herself apart from her Clanmates. Was it 
possible she was still mourning Whiteclaw? 

Leopardfur kept an eye on her, watching her day after 
day until at last she decided she should speak. Four days 
after the battle, the snow at last began to melt, and 
Leopardfur carried a water vole to where Silverstream was 
sitting alone beneath the sedge. The sun was just beginning 
to set behind the trees. 

She dropped it at Silverstream’s paws. “You must be 
hungry.” The young she-cat had been hunting all day, 
though she’d brought back little prey. 

Silverstream dipped her head. “Thanks,” she mewed. 
“But give it to some other cat.” 

Leopardfur heard Silverstream’s belly growl but she 


didn’t argue. Mosspelt had kitted, and nursing three healthy 
kits was sapping the queen’s strength. She’d welcome the 
extra prey. 

Leopardfur blinked at her and decided to come straight 
to the point. “You seem lonely.” 

“Do I?” Silverstream looked surprised. 

“You keep to yourself too much,” Leopardfur mewed. 

“Then I can’t be feeling lonely, or Pd look for company,” 
Silvers tream mewed. 

Leopardfur’s pelt twitched. Silverstream didn’t seem to 
appreciate her concern. “Are you missing Whiteclaw?” 

“Whiteclaw?” Silverstream looked puzzled for a moment, 
then dipped her head. “Yes,” she mewed, as though 
remembering. “Of course.” 

“You’ve been patrolling with Stonefur a lot lately.” 
Leopardfur had made sure they’d shared the same patrols, 
hoping that they might make a connection. “He’s a good 
warrior.” 

“T guess.” Silverstream eyed her as though wondering 
what Leopardfur was getting at. 

Leopardfur pressed on. “He’d make a good mate, don’t 
you think?” 

Silverstream blinked at her. “Are you thinking of taking 
himas a mate?” 

“Me?” Surprise sparked through Leopardfur’s pelt. That 
was not what she’d imagined at all. “No! I thought he’d 


make a good mate for you.” 

Silverstream looked away quickly. “I don’t want a mate.” 

Perhaps Whiteclaw had meant more to her than 
Leopardfur had imagined. “You can’t mourn forever.” 

“I don t want a mate.” Silverstream sounded irritated this 
time. 

“Why?” Leopardfur knew she was annoying the she-cat, 
but she couldn’t help but ask. 

Silverstream flicked her ear, annoyed. “I don’t need a 
reason, do I?” she asked. “You don’t have a mate. Do you 
have a reason?” 

Leopardfur felt a tiny pang in the tender part of her that 
still questioned what life might have been like as Frogleap’s 
mate. She didn’t have a reason that she wanted to share. 
Perhaps Silverstream felt the same, and Leopardfur would 
respect that. But she still wondered why. 

The sliver of curiosity nagged her through the night, and 
in the morning, as the sun reached high into a blue sky, it 
grew as Leopardfur noticed Silverstream heading out of 
camp. She hadn’t assigned the young she-cat to any patrol; 
she’d wanted to see who Silverstream did choose to be with, 
even if only as friends. But Silverstream hadn’t chosen any 
of the patrols. Instead she was slipping away without saying 
good-bye to anyone. 

Leopardfur waited for a few moments and followed her 
out of camp. Hanging well back, she trailed Silverstream 


along the shore, across the newly thawed river and into the 
line of trees that grew in the direction of the ThunderClan 
border. She kept downwind, and stayed out of sight as 
Silverstream finally came to a halt a few tail-lengths away 
from the scent line. 

Leopardfur’s hackles lifted as she saw a gray pelt on the 
other side of the border. Graystripe. Her paws seemed to 
freeze to the earth as the ThunderClan tom crossed into 
RiverClan territory and touched noses with Silverstream. 
The young tabby she-cat’s eyes shimmered with pleasure 
and affection, and Leopardfur fought the urge to rush 
forward and swipe her claws across Graystripe’s muzzle. 

How could Silverstream do this? She was Crookedstar’s 
kit. How could she betray her Clan? And with the warrior 
who’d killed Whiteclaw! Leopardfur’s claws itched with 
rage, but she kept them sheathed. This was not a problem 
that could be solved with a single confrontation. If 
Silverstream was as fond of Graystripe as she appeared, this 
was something that needed to be dealt with carefully and 
quietly. Leopardfur was not going to sacrifice the harmony 
of RiverClan by making a scene. 

Before she could decide what RiverClan should do about 
Silverstream’s betrayal, she had to decide how she felt about 
it herself. 





CHAPTER 17 
+ 


Leopardfur had sent out the patrols for the morning but kept 
Silverstream back in camp. For two days she’d fretted about 
what to say, or whether to say anything at all. Perhaps the 
meetings with Graystripe would come to a natural end. But 
Leopardfur knew she was grasping at thistledown. 
Silverstream was young and in love. Leaving her alone to 
sort out the problem was too risky, and Leopardfur wanted 
to protect her from making a mistake she and RiverClan 
might live to regret. She’d have to talk to her. 

She beckoned Silverstream with her tail, trying to sound 
casual. “Come hunt with me.” 

“Me?” Silverstream blinked at her in surprise. 

Leopardfur glanced around the clearing. Who else would 
she mean? Sedgecreek, Shadepelt, and Mallowtail were 
resting outside the medicine den. They were still weak from 
the sickness that had taken Tanglewhisker but were clearly 
willing to endure the drizzle for a little fresh air. Mudfur 
sorted through herbs bedside them while Reedtail cleared 
Tanglewhisker’s nest fromthe elders’ den. 

Birdsong was helping Graypool gather reeds. The old 
gray she-cat had finally decided to make a nest in the elders’ 
den. Leopardfur was pleased. Graypool had seemed 
confused on her last few patrols. She needed rest, and 


Birdsong would be glad of the company. 

As Leopardfur headed for the entrance, Silverstream 
seemed to drag her paws. Had she guessed that Leopardfur 
planned to use the patrol as a chance to talk? 

“Where do you want to hunt?” Silverstream asked as 
they reached the stepping-stones. 

“Tn the water meadow.” Leopardfur bounded across and 
waited on the far side. She hadn’t worked out what to say to 
Silverstream yet. “Let’s catch a frog for Birdsong,” she 
mewed. 

Silverstream followed. “She must miss Tanglewhisker. 
The camp doesn’t seem the same without him.” 

“PI never get used to losing Clanmates.” Leopardfur 
thought of Whiteclaw with a pang. Had he been watching 
Silverstream’s secret meetings with Graystripe from 
StarClan? 

She stopped at the edge of the water meadow. The pools 
shimmering in dips among the long grass reflected the 
overcast sky. Water rippled on one. Something was moving 
there. She headed toward it, opening her mouth to taste for 
frog-scent, and stopped a few tail-lengths from the edge. A 
frog was scrabbling clumsily over the mud. She dropped, 
ready to pounce, but it dived into the water and 
disappeared. 

Shaking out her pelt, Leopardfur crouched in a patch of 
marsh grass. 


Silverstream nosed her way in and settled beside her. 

“I taught Whiteclaw to hunt here.” Leopardfur felt a 
twinge of sadness. “Frogleap helped me. This is probably 
where I fell in love with him.” 

“You loved Frogleap?” Silverstream jerked her muzzle 
around. 

“Is that so strange?” Did she think Frogleap had only 
ever been interested in Mosspelt? 

“T guess not.” Silverstream turned back to the pool. “I 
just can’t imagine you being in love with any cat.” 

Leopard fur hesitated. “Really?” 

“You’re kind of old.” 

“Tmnot that old.” 

“You’re older than me.” Silverstream was watching the 
pool. 

“I was probably your age when I fell in love.” Leopardfur 
shifted her paws. This was as good a way as any to start the 
conversation. “I thought I’d love him forever, and he’d love 
me forever. But life isn’t like that. We have other 
responsibilities.” 

“I guess you did,” Silverstream mewed. “You wanted to 
focus on being deputy.” 

“That doesn’t mean I don’t regret giving up Frogleap,” 
Leopardfur mewed. “But I knew I had to do what was best 
for my Clan.” 

“Maybe it was the best thing for you too.” Silverstream 


didn’t look at her. 

“What do you mean?” 

“I guess you wanted to be deputy more than you 
wanted to be with Frogleap.” 

Leopardfur was surprised by a jab of irritation. Was 
Silverstream judging her? “The Clan needed me more than 
Frogleap did.” 

Silverstream tucked her tail along her side. “It must be 
nice to be so sure of yourself.” 

Leopardfur sat up. She didn’t like Silverstream’s tone. 
“I'm sure of RiverClan,” she mewed sharply. “That's what I 
care about and I’ll do anything to protect them.” 

Silverstream looked at her. “Is that why you dragged me 
out here?” She sat up too. “Are you scared I’ma danger to 
my Clan?” 

Leopardfur blinked. Silverstream had clearly guessed 
why she’d brought her here. Am I that transparent? She 
tried to read Silverstream’s gaze. “Aren’t you scared you 
might be a danger to them?” 

“Why would I be?” Silverstream tipped her head to one 
side. 

“You know why,” she snapped. After such 
perceptiveness, Silverstream’s obtuseness was irritating. 
“Graystripe’s a ThunderClan tom.” 

“Graystripe?” Her eyes rounded. 

Was she really going to pretend to be innocent? “Don’t 


be cute.” 

“How did you know I was meeting him?” 

“Tve seen you together.” 

“You spied on me?” 

“I watched you.” Leopardfur wasn’t going to apologize 
for keeping an eye on her Clanmates. 

Silverstream looked away. “I love him.” 

“He’s our enemy.” 

“He’s not my enemy.” 

Leopardfur’s breath caught in her throat. She suddenly 
realized why Silverstream had come to the medicine den after 
Whiteclaw had died. I heard that Graystripe tried to save 
Whiteclaw. Silverstream hadn’t wanted to find out what had 
happened to her Clanmate. She’d wanted to defend the cat 
she loved! “How long has this been going on?” she 
demanded. 

“That’s my business.” Silverstream pushed her way from 
the grass. Ripples arced across the pools as a frog fled into 
the water. Leopardfur didn’t care. She could catch a frog for 
Birdsong later. Right now, she had to try to reason with 
Silvers tream. 

“Its the Clan’s business.” Leopardfur followed her. 
“Don’t you realize you’re breaking the warrior code by 
seeing him?” 

“It's not harming anyone,” Silverstream snapped. 

“Tt will if it goes on.” 


“How?” Silverstream glowered at her. “How can loving a 
cat harm anyone?” 

Leopardfur pressed on. “What will Crookedstar say 
when he finds out?” 

Silverstream glanced at her paws. “Who cares?” 

“I care,” Leopardfur mewed. “I don’t want him or you to 
get hurt.” 

“No cat’s going to get hurt!” 

“Do you really believe that?” she snapped. 

Silverstream didn’t answer. “Can’t you just leave me 
alone? Pm not going to do anything to threaten your 
precious Clanmates.” 

Leopardfur couldn't believe what she was hearing. 
“They’re your precious Clanmates too!” 

“Yes! They are! And unlike you, / trust them. I don’t 
need to sneak around spying on them like a nosy old mother 
duck!” 

Rage burned beneath Leopardfur’s pelt, but she forced 
herself to take a breath. She let her fur smooth. Anger wasn’t 
going to help. “I’m the Clan deputy. I need to be a nosy old 
mother duck. I need to know everything that’s going on so 
that Ican help my Clanmates make the right choices and be 
the best warriors they can be. That’s the only way RiverClan 
can thrive.” 

“Do you think RiverClan won’t thrive because J love a 
cat from another Clan?” 


“If every cat broke the warrior code, the Clan wouldn’t 
be a Clan.” Leopardfur stared at her. This was basic warrior 
training. How could she not understand? “It would be a 
gang of rogues, doing exactly what they pleased with no 
regard for anyone else.” 

“But I love him!” For the first time, Silverstream’s eyes 
glittered with pain. “I can’t stop loving him just because the 
warrior code tells me to. You said you loved Frogleap. Did 
you stop when you decided your Clan needed you more? 
Did you just decide not to love him one day?” The words 
were tumbling out now as though she couldn’t hold them in 
anymore. Pity welled in Leopardfur’s chest as Silverstream 
went on. “I wish I could do that. I wish J could decide how 
to feel.” 

Leopardfur padded closer. “Ill probably always love 
Frogleap,” she mewed. “Every time I see him with Mosspelt, 
I feel jealous and I wish I didn’t. It hurts. But I know I made 
the right choice. I know it could never have worked.” 

Fresh anger flashed in Silverstream’s eyes. “And you 
want me to do the same.” 

“Don’t you see?” Leopardfur mewed desperately. “You 
have no choice. You can’t take Graystripe as a mate. He’s a 
ThunderClan cat.” And he killed Whiteclaw. She swallowed 
the words back. They wouldn’t help. “The only way to be 
with himis to leave RiverClan.” 

Silverstream puffed out her chest. “I might do that.” 


Shock pulsed in Leopardfur’s throat. “And be a rogue?” 

“Pd join ThunderClan.” 

“You'd join an enemy Clan?” Leopardfur stared at her in 
disbelief. “Think of what that would do to Crookedstar!” 

“He’d get over it.” 

“He's Clan leader!” Leopardfur snapped. “How would he 
hold his head up after his own kit betrayed her Clan?” 

“Its not a betrayal.” Silverstream’s fur ruffled. “It’s a 
choice. Like you wanting to be deputy.” 

Leopardfur snorted. “It’s nothing like me wanting to 
become deputy. I did that for the good of our Clan. You’re 
only thinking of yourself!” 

“What’s wrong with that!” 

“You’re a warrior.” Leopardfur suddenly felt weary. 
Silverstream couldn’t mean these things. She was a good 
cat. She was loyal and smart. If she weren’t caught up in a 
storm of emotions, she’d never say this. 

They stood in silence for a moment, as though both of 
them realized that they’d gone as far as they could. Then 
Silverstream spoke. 

“Will you tell any cat?” Her mew was trembling now. 
“About me and Graystripe?” 

Leopardfur didn’t move. Giving away Silverstream’s 
secret would do nothing but cause upset in the Clan. Cats 
would take sides. Some would turn on the young she-cat, 
which could drive her away from RiverClan for good. Wasn’t 


that what Leopardfur was trying to avoid? And Crookedstar 
would be put in an impossible position. He couldn’t defend 
her, and it would break his heart to confront her. What if he 
was forced to exile his own daughter? “I won’t tell,” she 
mewed. 

Relief showed in Silverstream’s wide blue eyes. “Thank 
you.” 

“But you have to promise to stop seeing him.” 

Silverstream stiffened. “I can’t do that! I love him. And 
he loves me.” 

Though she knew this romance was wrong, Leopardfur’s 
heart ached with sympathy for the young warrior. 
“Whatever you choose will break your heart,” she mewed 
softly. “But you need to decide whether you want to break 
your father’s heart as well.” She felt bad using guilt to 
persuade Silverstream, but it was true. And how else could 
she convince her that if she continued her relationship with 
Graystripe, she would only damage herself and her Clan? 

“Please don’t tell him,” Silverstream mewed helplessly. 
“Not yet. Give me a chance to sort this out for myself.” 

Leopardfur shifted her paws uneasily. Dishonesty could 
harm the Clan, but in this case honesty might do just as 
much damage. And Silverstream was young. Leopardfur 
didn’t want her remembered as a traitor just because her 
feelings had gotten the better of her Leopardfur’s 
responsibility was to protect her. If that meant keeping her 


secret for a while longer, then she’d do it. But she would still 
try, in every other way, to stop Silverstream from making a 
terrible mistake. 


In the days that followed, Leopardfur tried not to notice 
when Silverstream disappeared from camp. With every day 
that passed, she hoped that the tabby she-cat was closer to 
ending her relationship with Graystripe. But she feared she 
was only a day closer to being found out. 

The rain battered the camp relentlessly. Crookedstar had 
been anxiously watching the river rise. Now, as Leopardfur 
settled into her nest, tired from a day’s patrolling, she could 
hear it thundering past the camp. She was happy the patrols 
had brought back enough food to ensure no one went to 
their nest hungry, though fishing hadn’t been easy. Most of 
the catch had been land prey, with only a few fish hooked 
from the shallows where a bend in the river slowed the 
current a little. Leopardfur still had tufts of feather between 
her teeth from the sparrow she’d eaten. She eased them out 
with her tongue as she huddled deeper into her nest and 
closed her eyes. Silverstream still worried her, but she was 
tired and pushed her thoughts away. J can think about it 
tomorrow, she told herself, and let herself to drift into sleep. 

An agonized wail cut into her dreams and she jerked up 
her head. The den was still dark, but some of the nests were 
empty. In others, her Clanmates were sitting up, their pelts 
bristling as groans sounded from the clearing. 


She blinked at Reedtail, whose eyes were wide with 
alarm. “What’s happening?” she mewed. 

“I don’t know.” He scrambled from his nest and headed 
for the den entrance. 

She ducked out after him. 

Mallowtail was crouched beside the medicine den. 
Birdsong retched nearby. Mudfur was darting from one cat 
to another as they huddled in the clearing, their fur ruffled, 
clearly in pain. 

Leopardfur raced to Mudfur’s side. “What’s wrong with 
them?” 

As she spoke, Heavystep vomited violently beneath the 
sedge wall. 

Mudfur’s eyes glittered with fear. “It looks like they’ve 
been poisoned.” 

Leopardfur glanced in panic toward the nursery. 
Mistyfoot had only recently kitted. And Mosspelt’s kits 
were close to trying their first taste of prey. “Are Mosspelt 
and Mistyfoot okay?” 

“There's no sickness in the nursery,” he mewed. 
Leopardfur felt a rush of relief. He nodded to Sedgecreek, 
who had emerged, blinking, from the warriors’ den. “Take 
any cat who’s still well and collect mallow,” he told her. “I 
need as much as you can carry.” 

Sedgecreek nodded. 

“Be as quick as you can,” Leopardfur added. Then she 


paused, a thought sparking in her mind, and added, “What 
did you eat tonight?” 

Sedgecreek glanced at her. “A vole.” 

Ottersplash, Cedarpelt, and Piketooth slid from the 
warriors’ den and looked anxiously at their sick Clanmates. 

“What’s happened?” Ottersplash mewed. 

“They’ve been poisoned.” Leopardfur hurried toward 
her. “What did you eat tonight?” 

“T shared a mouse with Graypool,” she answered. 

“And you?” Leopardfur asked Cedarpelt. 

“A starling.” 

“Thad starling too,” Piketooth volunteered. 

Leopardfur hurried to Heavystep’s side as he huddled 
beneath the sedge, shivering. “What did you eat tonight?” 
she asked him gently. 

“Trout,” he grunted, his eyes bright with pain. 

She darted to Mallowtail’s side. “Did you eat fish?” she 
asked. 

“T shared a chub with Birdsong,” Mallowtail told her, 
swallowing back sickness. 

They ate river food. Prey from the shore hadn’t harmed 
anyone, but the cats who’d eaten fish were sick. Leopardfur 
felt suddenly cold. The river, on which they had always 
depended, had somehow poisoned her Clanmates. 





CHAPTER 18 
¥ 


They buried Birdsong at dawn. Leopardfur was thankful 
that the elder was the only cat who’d died from the poisoned 
fish. Mallowtail, Heavystep, and the others had recovered, 
but they were weak from the sickness, and the whole Clan 
was grief-stricken at the loss of their Clanmate. Leopardfur 
had insisted on being part of the burial patrol, and there was 
still earth between her claws as she led the search party 
down to the water’s edge and slid into the river. 

The tug of the current took her by surprise, and she had 
to fight to stop herself being swept downstream. Chuming 
her paws to hold herself in place, she glanced back at the 
rest of the patrol. They were struggling too, but managed to 
keep close to her as she pushed further out into the stream 
and made for the far shore. 

Her heart was pounding by the time she felt stones 
beneath her paws and hauled herself out. The water was 
high even here, where the river was wide and reached as far 
as the trees. Leopardfur found herself in the middle of a 
thicket of brambles that used to be several tail-lengths from 
the shore but now trailed their branches in the water. 

Stonefur followed her out. Piketooth and Skyheart 
scrambled after them. They halted beside Leopardfur, 
breathless. 


Skyheart shook out her pelt. “At least the rain’s stopped 
for now.” 

Leopardfur looked at the sky. The clouds were still thick; 
the rain might start again at any moment. They had to find 
whatever had poisoned the river and get back to camp 
before it did. If the river rose any higher, it wouldn’t be safe 
to cross, and they might be stranded here until the water 
receded. 

Stonefur’s whiskers were dripping. “Do you really think 
it could be ThunderClan who planted the poison?” he asked 
Leopard fur. 

Her pelt ruffled. “Of course it was. WindClan would 
never have had the nerve after we defeated them in their 
own camp.” 

Piketooth’s tail swished irritably. “If Onewhisker hadn’t 
managed to get help, we’d have won the battle and 
WindClan would be gone by now.” 

Leopardfur remembered again how pleased Tigerclaw 
had looked as RiverClan had fled the WindClan camp. His 
look had stuck with her. It wasn’t just a look of victory, but 
of satisfaction, as though a plan was coming together. But 
she also remembered how he’d let Fireheart fight for his life 
without lifting a paw. The ThunderClan deputy was even 
more ruthless than she’d thought. A cat like him was 
certainly capable of poisoning the river. 

And what about Graystripe? The more she thought 


about the ThunderClan tom, the more she became convinced 
that he must have had something to do with the poisoning. 
Surely he was the warrior who’d been leaving ThunderClan 
scent on RiverClan land. Was he following Tigerclaw’s 
orders? She wondered if seeing Silverstream was just a 
pretense. Perhaps he’d been using the RiverClan she-cat to 
get access to the river Silverstream might even have 
inadvertently shown him the secret pools and streams where 
a piece of rotten prey could be hidden and allowed to fester 
and infect the whole river. 

“We should search the streams that feed the river on this 
side,” she told the patrol. 

Stonefur glanced at the roaring water. It was breaking 
over the banks, washing the shore and lapping between the 
trees. “It won’t be easy,” he mewed. “A lot of them will have 
been swallowed by the flooding.” 

Leopardfur glared at him. “I don’t care how hard it is. We 
have to find what's caused this. Pm not letting another 
Clanmate die.” 

“Okay.” He dipped his head. “Do you think it’s definitely 
rotten prey?” 

“I don’t know. It might be a bundle of poisonous herbs 
or berries. Just look for anything unusual.” 

Stonefur began to pick his way between the brambles, 
his nose close to the ground. Piketooth headed between the 
trees. 


Skyheart blinked at Leopardfur “Pl search farther 
upstream,” she mewed. 

“Okay.” Leopardfur scanned the forest. “Don’t get too 
far away from the patrol. ThunderClan may have crossed the 
border again.” She flexed her claws. She hated to feel her 
warriors weren’t safe on their own territory. 

As Skyheart padded away, Leopardfur walked over to 
where a ditch cut into the earth. Water flowed along it 
toward the river, and she sniffed it warily and began to 
follow it back, deeper into the woods. The water smelled 
fresh, tainted by nothing but earth. She hopped over it and 
began to look for another ditch. 

Frustration hardened into anger as she searched ditch 
after ditch and found no sign of anything that could have 
contaminated the river. If Graystripe had poisoned the river, 
he had timed it well. If he had planted the rotten prey or 
herbs before the waters rose, they would now be hidden 
beneath the surface. She hurried further along the shore. She 
had to find the evidence before he had a chance to retrieve it 
and hide ThunderClan’s crime. 

She spotted Skyheart’s pelt between the trees. “Have 
you found anything?” 

Skyheart looked at her apologetically. “No,” she called. 

Piketooth and Stonefur were padding toward her. 

She looked at them hopefully. “Any sign of poison?” 

“Nothing.” Stonefur told her. “You?” 


“Nothing.” 

Stonefur frowned. “I don’t think we’ll find anything 
while the river’s running so high,” he mewed. 

“T agree.” Leopardfur’s pelt twitched with irritation. 
There was more at stake than finding proof of a 
ThunderClan plot. If they couldn’t find the source of the 
poison, the river would remain unfishable. With prey already 
scarce, RiverClan would go hungry, and hunger meant 
weakness. Another thought was nagging her, too. If she 
could prove that ThunderClan had caused this, Silverstream 
would see that Graystripe had just been using her. It would 
put an end to their relationship without Crookedstar and the 
rest of the Clan finding out. 

But it looked like she wouldn’t find the evidence today. 
Disappointed, she turned back toward the trees. “Let’s head 
back to camp.” 


“Are you sure it’s ThunderClan?” Crookedstar blinked at 
her through the gloomof his den. 

“It has to be,” Leopardfur insisted. “First they made an 
alliance with WindClan; then they made WindClan’s battle 
their own. It’s obvious. They want to drive us off our land.” 

Crookedstar’s tail was twitching angrily. “Isn’t 
Sunningrocks enough for them?” 

“They want our woods and the river too.” 

“What good is the river to them?” 

“None.” Her tail swished over the den floor. “That’s why 


they’re willing to poison it.” 

A low growl rumbled in Crookedstar’s throat. 

Leopardfur was relieved to see he was angry. “There’s 
no way to prove it while the river’s so high. But we can’t let 
this pass. We have to find the source of the poisoning 
before they get a chance to cover it up.” 

Crookedstar nodded. “The other Clans should know that 
ThunderClan is full of treacherous cats. No true warrior 
could poison another Clan’s prey.” 

“WindClan wouldn’t be able to support them,” 
Leopardfur chimed. 

“We'd break up their alliance.” Crookedstar flicked his 
tail. “When the river starts to recede,” he told her, “take 
another patrol to look for the poison.” 

“Okay.” Satis fied, she headed for the entrance. 

Silverstream was waiting outside. She hurried to meet 
Leopardfur. “Why didn’t you take me on your patrol?” Her 
pelt was rippling angrily along her spine. 

“T thought you preferred to go out alone,” Leopardfur 
mewed pointedly. 

Silverstream followed her as she headed across the 
clearing. “You think it was ThunderClan, don’t you?” she 
hissed. 

Leopardfur glanced around the clearing. Stonefur was 
watching with interest from the fresh-kill pile, and, outside 
the nursery, Mosspelt looked up from her kits as they 


splashed in a puddle. Leopardfur steered Silverstream the 
shelter of the sedge wall. “Every cat thinks it’s 
ThunderClan,” she hissed back. “Including Crookedstar.” 

“Only because you’ve convinced them it was.” 
Silverstream glared at her. “Why do you have to blame 
everything on ThunderClan?” 

“You were at the battle, weren’t you?” Leopardfur 
wondered how Silverstream could defend the Clan that had 
attacked them only a few days earlier. “You watched them 
hurt your Clanmates!” Didn’t she have any sense of loyalty? 

“Warriors fight!” Silverstream growled. “They don’t 
poison rivers.” 

“ThunderClan does.” 

Silverstream narrowed her eyes. “But this isn’t about 
ThunderClan, is it?” she snapped. “It’s about Graystripe. 
You think he did it. You think that just because he crossed 
the border, he must be the poisoner. That’s why you left me 
behind. You think I'd cover up for him.” 

Cover up for him? Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. She 
never imagined Silverstream would go as far as to hide 
another Clan’s treachery. “Would you?” she asked. 

“There’s nothing to cover up!” 

Leopardfur held her gaze. “I just wanted to leave you out 
of it,” she mewed. “If we do find that Graystripe poisoned 
the river, I don’t want any cat to think you’re mixed up with 
it.” 


Silverstream stared at her in disbelief. “Do you think Pm 
mixed up with it?” 

“Of course not.” Leopardfur lowered her mew to whisper. 
“But you are involved with Graystripe, and if hes mixed up 
with the poisoning, you need to stay as far away from the 
whole thing as possible.” 

Silverstream was trembling. “How could you think 
Graystripe would do such a foxhearted thing?” she 
demanded. 

“He’s a ThunderClan warrior,’ Leopardfur snapped 
back. 

“You’re just obsessed,” Silverstream growled. “Why 
can’t you just keep your muzzle out of my affairs?” 

“Because they are endangering the Clan!” 

“That’s not true!” 

“Birdsong is dead,” Leopardfur reminded her. “And if 
ThunderClan is responsible—” She paused. “If Graystripe 
is responsible, then you need to decide whose side you’re 
really on.” 

Silverstream stared at her without speaking. There was 
uncertainty in her eyes. A shiver of fear ran along 
Leopardfur’s spine. She was really beginning to wonder 
exactly where Silverstream’s loyalty lay. If she had to 
choose, was it possible that the RiverClan she-cat would 
take the side of another Clan? 


“Silverstream.” Leopardfur looked coolly at the she-cat. 


“I want you to join the patrol.” The rain had held off since 
yesterday, and the river had receded a little, hopefully 
enough to find the source of the poison. After a long night 
of thought, Leopardfur thought she had an idea for how to 
pull Silverstream’s loyalty back to their own Clan. If 
Silverstream helped them uncover proof that Graystripe was 
mixed up in the river poisoning, she’d have to realize that her 
ThunderClan friend wasn’t as innocent as she believed. And 
Leopardfur would no longer have to worry which Clan 
Silverstream would support if they ever came into conflict. 

Silverstream eyed Leopardfur, her gaze sharp with 
suspicion as she got to her paws and padded toward the 
patrol. Stonefur, Skyheart, and Piketooth were already 
waiting beside the camp entrance. 

Leopardfur led them out of camp and across the river 
where it flowed closest to the ThunderClan border. 

“I don’t know why we’re looking here,” Silverstream 
muttered. “The river might have been poisoned farther 
down.” 

Stonefur looked at her curiously. “The fish that killed 
Birdsong was caught here,” he mewed. 

“Fish swim.” Silverstream’s pelt ruffled. “They don’t just 
stay in one place like bramble bushes. It could have been 
poisoned anywhere.” 

Leopardfur whisked her tail. “Let’s not waste any time.” 
Her Clanmates might wonder why Silverstream was being 


difficult. “The shoreline is exposed again today, so well 
concentrate our search along the riverbank. Look out for 
unusual smells or sights and report to me as soon as you 
find anything.” 

As Stonefur, Piketooth, and Skyheart headed away, 
Silverstream glared at her. “You’re determined to prove it 
was Graystripe, aren’t you?” 

“This isn’t about that,” Leopardfur told her. 

“Really?” Silverstream sounded unconvinced. 

“Tm just looking out for my Clan.” And I wish you were 
too. 

Silverstream swished her tail. “I’m going to find proof it 
wasnt Graystripe,” she snapped, and headed closer to the 
trees. 

Leopardfur padded along the shore, keeping an eye on 
the she-cat. If Silverstream did find “proof” that vilified 
Graystripe, she didn’t want her to have the opportunity to 
hide it. The river was less wild today. The channels and 
ditches flowing into it were easy to see, and she picked her 
way along them, the chilly water swilling around her legs as 
she sniffed at the water cautiously. 

Her pads grew numb with cold as the morning dragged 
on. She could see her Clanmates moving along the river, 
ahead and behind her, checking every inlet and pool along 
the edge. Worry was beginning to prick at Leopardfur’s 
belly. What if they couldn’t find the source of the poison? 


With every tail-length of shoreline, she cared less about who 
had caused the poisoning and more about making sure the 
river was safe for her Clanmates. 

As she crossed a pebbly stretch of shore, a sour tang 
touched her nose. She lifted her muzzle and opened her 
mouth, letting the air bathe her tongue. It was a scent she’d 
never smelled here before; it definitely wasn’t a river scent. 
Her nose wrinkled, and she scanned the bank, stiffening as 
she saw something bobbing beside a clump of rushes at the 
water’s edge. Strange, colored shapes were glinting among 
the reeds. She hurried toward them, guessing as she got 
near that they could only be Twoleg trash. There was 
nothing natural about the smell or look of these shapes. 
They were bundled together and caught among the stems. 
She kept her paws dry until she was upstream and then 
waded in, feeling queasy as the stench of decay grew 
stronger. 

“Tve found it!” she called to her Clanmates, signaling 
with a flick of her tail for them to stay out of the filth that 
oozed fromthe trash and clouded the water around it. 

Skyheart waded in, her tail bushing as she picked up the 
scent. “It smells like carrion,” she mewed with disgust. 

Algae clung to the trash and spread, slimy and putrid, 
around it. As the water flowed by, the current tore off small 
patches of algae and swirled them away downstream. There 
was no doubt that this was the source of the poison that 


had killed Birdsong. Leopardfur bristled. Had some careless 
Twoleg left it? Anger churned in her belly. She could 
challenge a threat from another a Clan, but there was no way 
to get revenge on a Twoleg. 

Silverstream caught her eye. Her look of triumph made 
Leopardfur even angrier. Graystripe hadn’t done this. She 
felt a flash of frustration. It would have been better for the 
young she-cat if she’d had been able to prove that 
Graystripe couldn’t be trusted. Instead, she’d have to find 
another way to end Silverstream’s relationship before the 
rest of RiverClan found out. 





CHAPTER 19 
+ 


Leopardfur woke at dawn. Rain was pounding the roof, and 
the walls ofthe den shuddered in the wind. The weather had 
begun to worsen yesterday as she’d led the patrol back to 
camp to report the Twoleg trash to Crookedstar. She hadn’t 
been able to hook it free of the reeds even with the help of 
Piketooth, Stonefur, and Skyheart. If only they’d been able 
to send it swirlng away downriver, past the gorge. She’d 
planned to take a larger patrol out today in the hope they 
might dislodge it. But from the sound of the rain, she 
guessed that the trash would have been submerged again. 

She slid from the den, narrowing her eyes against the 
weather, and, in the gray early-morning light, inspected the 
fresh-kill pile. A stale thrush, sodden and stiff, was all that 
was left. But at least there was something. 

“Leopardfur.” Mudfur’s mew made her turn. Her father 
was padding toward her through the rain. The wind buffeted 
him, tugging at his thick fur. They were the only cats in the 
clearing, but Leopardfur could hear her Clanmates stirring in 
the warriors’ den. She’d be able to send out patrols soon. 
Mudfur glanced at the thrush. “Are you hungry?” 

“T was just checking.” She poked it with her paw. 
“Should I take this to the nursery?” 

Mudfur shook his head. “Let Mosspelt and Mistyfoot 


sleep,” he mewed. “They must be tired. I heard Dawnkit 
mewling in the night. She must have kept the whole nursery 
awake.” 

Leopardfur tensed. “Is Dawnkit okay?” 

“She’s fine.” Mudfur shook the rain from his fur. “I 
checked. Just a nightmare.” 

Leopardfur looked up at the dark gray sky, the rain 
streaming around her eyes. “We won’t be able to reach the 
Twoleg trash today.” 

“At least we know where it is,” Mudfur mewed. “The 
fish farther upstream won’t be poisoned. You can hunt there 
today.” 

“But the river beyond the reed beds is narrow.” It had 
been so long since he’d been a warrior, he must have 
forgotten. “And it’ll be raging after all this rain. It may be too 
dangerous to fish.” 

Frogleap ducked out of the warriors’ den, hunching 
against the rain. “Too dangerous to fish?” He sniffed and 
padded toward them, his fur fluffed out. “Nowhere’s too 
dangerous for a RiverClan warrior.” 

Leopardfur frowned. “Stil,” she mewed. “It might be 
better to hunt in the water meadow today.” 

“We’ve had too much land prey,” Frogleap snorted. “My 
kits will grow up thinking they’re ThunderClan cats.” 

“I guess we have spat out a lot of fur lately,” Leopardfur 
conceded. 


Frogleap swished his tail. “Besides, I like fast-water 
fishing. It’ll be fun.” He blinked at Leopardfur and she 
dipped her head. 

“Okay,” she mewed. “Pll lead a hunting patrol there once 
I’ve organized the others. You can join it.” She hooked up 
the thrush. “But first I’m taking this to Graypool.” 

Dawn gave way to daylight, which was hardly brighter, 
but at least the rain was easing by the time Leopardfur led 
the patrol out of camp. She’d asked Skyheart and Loudbelly 
to join them, and it almost felt as though they were 
apprentices again as they trekked upstream. The rain had 
stopped by the time they’d passed the reed beds. 
Leopardfur had been right. The river was flowing fast here, 
chuming and frothing as it raced between the steep banks. 
Farther upstream, she could see trees rocking in the wind. 
Even from here, she could hear their branches creaking and 
groaning like grouchy elders. 

Leopardfur scanned the water. Twigs and leaves swirled 
past, the river swallowing them, only to spit them out again a 
few tail-lengths away as though it didn’t like the taste. 
“Perhaps we should hunt on the shore until the current’s 
less fierce,” she suggested. 

“Don’t be a mouse-heart.” Frogleap stood at the edge, 
his ears pricked eagerly. “I want to give Robinkit, Dawnkit, 
and Woodkit their first bite of carp.” He blinked at 
Leopardfur affectionately. “They might love it as much as 


you do.” 

Leopardfur glanced at him, purring. “Why wouldn’t 
they? Carp is the tastiest fish.” She plunged in. The river 
caught her and pulled her under, but it buoyed her up again 
and she burst, splashing, through the surface. It was 
exhilarating. She swam against the current, relishing the 
challenge and enjoying the rush of water through her pelt. 

Skyheart dived after her while Loudbelly slid into the 
shallows and swam close to the bank. “It’s hard to believe 
you used to be a drypaw,” she teased as she surfaced 
beside Leopard fur. 

“I was barely a kit!” Leopardfur splashed her with her 
paw, and Skyheart darted away through the frothing water, 
her eyes shining. 

“Look!” Skyheart pointed with her nose to a shape 
racing beneath the surface toward them. She ducked under 
and surfaced a moment later with a small chub between her 
jaws. She made for the shore and flung it onto the bank. 

Frogleap sniffed it and whisked his tail. “I’m going to 
catch a carp.” 

He dived in and Leopardfur watched the water close 
over him. She waited eagerly for him to surface. It had been a 
while since they’d fished together. Perhaps they could catch 
something big, like a salmon. She twisted in the water, 
looking for him. Where was he? Fighting to hold herself in 
place, she turned again. Alarm began to spark in her belly. 


“Frogleap?” 

Skyheart was swimming a few tail lengths away, her 
muzzle in the water as she searched for fish. Loudbelly was 
nosing beneath the sedge overhanging the bank. 

“Frogleap!” Frightened now, Leopardfur ducked 
underwater, her eyes stinging as she strained to see through 
the frothing water. The river buffeted her, and she struggled 
against the current. In a few moments she was out of breath 
and had to surface for air. 

As she bobbed up, she saw Frogleap, swimming toward 
her. 

“There you are!” She splashed toward him, swinging a 
playful blow at his ear. “You scared me!” she mewed. 

He swam away from her, his whiskers twitching. “I was 
just checking the bottom for lurking fish,” he mewed. “But 
the current’s strong down there too. It looks like we’ll have 
to wait for the fish to come to us.” He turned and looked 
expectantly upstream. 

His ears pricked as he seemed to spot something moving 
below the surface. “Get ready!” he mewed. “If I don’t catch 
it, you can.” He disappeared under the water again and 
Leopardfur’s heart quickened. She dropped beneath the 
surface and saw a trout swimming toward her. Frogleap was 
right behind it, his paws outstretched. As she unsheathed 
her claws, ready to catch it, it jerked suddenly backward. 
Frogleap had grabbed it. 


Leopardfur bobbed up to the surface, delight surging in 
her chest as he appeared next to her, the trout between his 
jaws. He carried it to the shore and flung it out beside 
Skyheart’s chub. 

Near the bank, Loudbelly had hooked a perch that must 
have been hiding among the trailing sedge. He leaped from 
the water, holding it with his teeth, and placed it beside the 
others. It was raining again, the water pounding the shore, 
and before he slid back in again, he moved their catch farther 
from the edge, as though afraid it might get washed back 
into the water. 

Before long, the pile had doubled. 

“We should take these back to camp,” Leopardfur called 
over the roar of the water. Her paws were growing tired from 
fighting the current, and there were nearly more fish in the 
pile than they could carry. 

“Thaven’t caught a carp yet,” Frogleap called back. He’d 
swum a little way farther upstream, where the river was even 
narrower and chumed so fiercely it was hard to make out his 
mew above the noise. 

Leopardfur swam toward him, pushing hard against the 
current. “There won’t be carp this far upstream!” she called. 
He must know that carp preferred to bask in calmer water. 
“Your kits will have to wait until we’ve cleared away the 
trash so we can fish for it.” 

“There must be carp here,” Frogleap yowled back. “The 


only way to get downstream is from upstream.” He plunged 
beneath the water. 

Here, the river cut a deep trench in the middle of the 
channel, and she dived with him, pushing after him through 
the swirling water. 

He was darting back and forth along the trench like an 
otter, his fur billowing around him. Her heart quickened as 
she recognized the sleek outline of a carp racing toward him. 
It was traveling fast, swept along by the current. Would he 
be quick enough to grab it? She pushed down toward the 
bottom of the trench, fighting the river as it tried to push her 
backward. If Frogleap missed the carp, she’d get it. 

Frogleap kicked out with his hind legs, shooting through 
the water as though it were no more than air. Claws 
outstretched, he hooked the carp and dragged it toward his 
jaws to give the killing bite. 

Frogleap’s kits would get their first taste of carp after all. 
Leopardfur swam happily to the surface and broke from the 
water, gulping fresh air. 

Then she stiffened. Upstream, something dropped from 
one of the trees. It splashed into the river, long, dark, and 
heavy enough to send slices of water arcing over the 
riverbank. A branch! Broken off by the wind. Her heart 
lurched as the river grabbed it and sped it downstream. It 
was heading straight for them. If Frogleap surfaced now, it 
would hit him. 


She ducked down to warn him and saw him rising 
through the water, his eyes bright with triumph as he 
clasped the carp between his jaws. 

No! Her scream wouldn’t carry through the chuming 
water. She choked as her mouth filled and panic gripped her 
as the branch, a dark shadow above them, raced toward 
Frogleap. 

She swam for him, the weight of the water so fierce that 
frustration clawed in her belly as she fought to get near. She 
reached for him as he surfaced, saw him jerk as the branch 
hit him, and watched, frozen, as the current snatched him 
away. He spun. His paws flailed for a moment. Then he fell 
limp and the river dragged him toward her. 

Heart bursting, she grabbed for him again and felt his fur 
sweep her claws, just a whisker out of reach, as he tumbled 
past. She blinked the water from her eyes and stared, horror- 
stricken, as the river carried him away. 

“Frogleap!” 

Skyheart was watching from the bank, her eyes wide. 
Loudbelly stared helplessly from the shallows as Frogleap 
was washed downriver. 

Leopardfur launched herself into the current, letting it lift 
her, swimming with it so fast that the shore blurred beside 
her. She didn’t take her eyes from Frogleap. The river carried 
him like a leaf on the stream, faster and faster, and then, 
suddenly, sucked him under and he disappeared. 


Skyheart was bounding along the bank. “Leopardfur!” 
she screeched. 

Leopardfur glanced at her. 

“Get out of there.” Skyheart cry was frenzied with panic. 

Leopardfur turned in the water and followed her 
Clanmate’s gaze back upstream. Pieces of broken branch 
were swirling toward her. The wind must have torn the whole 
tree apart. The surface of the river was strewn with lumps of 
wood. 

Alarm flashed beneath Leopardfur’s pelt. She lunged for 
the shore, pulling herself out a moment before the branches 
and bark hurtled past. She stared after them as the river 
sucked them under, carrying them down to the same dark 
place it had dragged Frogleap. 

She couldn’t speak. Skyheart stood stiffly beside her as 
Loudbelly caught up to them and stared downriver. 

“I should have saved him,” Leopardfur whispered. 

“You tried,” Skyheart croaked. “I saw you. He was out of 
reach.” 

“I should have swum harder.” Grief twisted her heart 
until the pain was unbearable. “I should have been quicker.” 

Skyheart leaned against her. “It was all too fast,” she 
breathed. “There was nothing you could have done.” 

Leopardfur couldn’t speak anymore. She wanted to 
crumple on the shore. All these moons, a tiny piece of her 
had wondered what her life might have been if she had done 


as Frogleap asked and chosen him over being deputy. A not- 
so-tiny part of her still loved him in a way that defied reason. 
Now he was gone, and she hadn’t been able to save him. 

She couldn’t pry her eyes from the raging river, wishing 
it would give back the cat who’d known her best. 





CHAPTER 20 
¥ 


Leopardfur padded numbly toward the camp. Loudbelly 
was trembling beside her, as Skyheart walked ahead, 
directing them. The weight of Frogleap, slung between her 
and Loudbelly’s shoulders, seemed more than she could 
bear, but she kept putting one paw in front of the other, 
staring blindly ahead as her heart ached with more pain than 
she thought possible. She could feel the last of his warmth 
ebbing away as they limped through the reed tunnel into the 
clearing and let him slide from their backs onto the muddy 
earth. 

The rain had started again as they’d searched the 
riverbank for Frogleap’s body. It had beaten down 
relentlessly as they’d dragged it from the reeds where it had 
been caught. Leopardfur had hoped for a moment that he 
might still be alive, but one glimpse of his wide, glazed eyes 
had told her that he was dead. 

Now, back at camp, the rain fell even harder, as though 
StarClan had no pity for the living. Her Clanmates were 
sheltering in their dens. Only Sedgecreek and Stonefur were 
outside, huddled beneath the sedge wall as they shared a 
bedraggled starling. 

Sedgecreek looked up as Frogleap’s body thumped to 
the ground. 


Stonefur hurried across the clearing. “What happened?” 
he asked. 

Leopardfur throat tightened. “The river—” The words 
died on her tongue. She didn’t want to relive the accident, or 
make it more real by speaking of it. 

Shimmerpelt slid from the warriors’ den. Grasswhisker 
and Blackclaw followed. One by one, the Clan crept out into 
the rain and gathered around Frogleap’s body. No one 
spoke, as though they too feared making a nightmare real. 

Mistyfoot poked her head from the nursery, her ears 
twitching nervously as she saw them. “What is it?” 

Stonefur turned his head toward her. “Frogleap’s dead.” 

“Does that mean he won’t come to the nursery 
anymore?” Perchkit squeezed past his mother and blinked at 
her as Pikekit and Reedkit peered from between her paws. 

Mistyfoot touched her nose to his head. “Yes,” she 
mewed softly. “Let’s go back inside. I want you to play with 
Robinkit, Woodkit, and Dawnkit for a while. Mosspelt has to 


” 


“Has something happened?” Mosspelt mewed from 
inside the nursery. 

Mistyfoot disappeared inside. A moment later Mosspelt 
burst out and ran across the clearing. She stopped beside 
Frogleap’s body and stared at it as though she expected him 
to move. As though he might not be dead after all. Then she 
crouched and began to tremble, a low moan rising in her 


throat as she touched her nose to Frogleap’s sodden pelt. 
The rain battered her, and Leopardfur’s chest tightened as 
she watched. She felt so helpless. She could not bring 
Frogleap back, or stop the rain. She could only watch the 
heartbreaking scene as her Clanmates began to whisper 
softly around her. 

“How did he die?” Heavystep mewed. 

“Were you attacked by ThunderClan?” Reedtail asked. 

“Tt was an accident.” Leopardfur saw the branch racing 
toward Frogleap, her breath stopping as she pictured his 
body jerk and grow limp and the river sweep him away. 

Cedarpelt stood beside his body, staring wide-eyed as 
though he couldn’t believe his kit was dead. “RiverClan 
warriors don’t drown,” he murmured. 

Lakeshine pressed against him, shivering as rain dripped 
from her whiskers. “He was a strong swimmer.” 

Leopardfur felt the gazes of her Clanmates settle on her 
as though they were kits and she were their mother. They 
wanted her to explain, but the words were too painful. 
Frogleap cant be dead. He has kits. He was happy. She 
stared at them blankly, her thoughts stuck. And I loved him. 

“A branch hit him,” Skyheart mewed. 

Gratitude flickered in Leopardfur’s chest as her friend 
padded forward and began to tell their Clanmates how this 
had happened. 

Mudfur nosed his way through the crowd and stopped 


beside Leopardfur. He didn’t speak but let his fur rest softly 
against hers. 

She glanced at him. “Where’s Crookedstar?” The 
RiverClan leader should be with them. 

Mudfur glanced toward his den. “He’s in his nest,” he 
mewed. “It’s probably best he stay there.” 

Leopardfur stiffened. “Is he ill?” 

“Just tired,” Mudfur mewed quietly. 

Leopardfur broke away and headed toward the RiverClan 
leader’s den. He had to be told. His Clan needed him. She 
pushed through the trailing moss and blinked at him. 

Crookedstar was sleeping, unaware of the rain dripping 
through the roof and soaking his nest. He rolled over and 
began to snore. 

“Crookedstar.” Leopardfur leaned close. She poked him 
gently with a paw. “Wake up. Something’s happened.” 

He blinked open his eyes, looking blearily at her for a 
moment before sitting up. 

Leopardfur suddenly realized how old he’d grown. His 
thick pelt was matted, and there was confusion in his eyes 
as he struggled awake. 

“What is it?” he mewed thickly. 

“Frogleap’s dead,” she told him as gently as she could. 
“Tt was an accident. He drowned.” The simple words pierced 
her heart like thorns. 

Crookedstar’s eyes rounded with grief. “Dead?” 


She nodded. 

He looked away as though he was having trouble taking 
it in. Leopardfur felt a flash of panic. She wanted him to talk 
to the Clan and soften the sharpest edge of their grief. But, 
looking at him now, she realized he wasn’t strong enough. 
She would have to comfort them. She felt suddenly 
unsteady, remembering how she’d once been ready to 
snatch leadership from Crookedstar the moment he’d fallen 
ill How had she ever thought she could manage such a 
responsibility? But she must. Crookedstar looked like an 
elder. He couldn’t lead the Clan through something like this. 

She closed her eyes, feeling the shelter and warmth of 
the den, wishing she could stay here and hide in its 
shadows, alone with the grief that was clawing at her heart. 
But her Clan needed her. She opened her eyes and looked at 
Crookedstar. 

He was staring at the floor, murmuring to himself. 
“Frogleap's dead.” His mew was choked with sadness. 

“Stay here and rest,” she told him. She lifted her muzzle. 
“Pll speak to the Clan.” 

It seemed to take every spark of energy she had to force 
herself back through the trailing moss and across the rain- 
soaked camp. It was growing dark. Her Clanmates were no 
more than shadows in the clearing. 

She wove among them and stopped beside Frogleap's 
body. Lakeshine had joined Mosspelt, crouching beside it. 


Bright mewls sounded fromthe nursery. 

“Primrosekit! You’re the hunter this time!” 

“Pm going to catch you!” 

“Hey! That’s not fair. I was in the nest!” 

“Quiet.” Mistyfoot’s mew was hushed but firm. “Keep 
your voices down.” 

“Why?” 

As the squeals quietened, Leopardfur looked around her 
Clanmates. “We lost a beloved Clanmate today,” she began 
slowly. Their gazes were searching hers, looking for comfort. 
Her belly tightened. “He was a true warrior, loyal and brave. 
The Clan won’t be the same without him. But he wouldn’t 
want you to grieve for him. We will see him again in 
StarClan, and when we do, we want him to be proud of us. 
We want him to see that we never for a moment stopped 
taking care of our Clanmates. That we never let grief get in 
the way of keeping them safe.” 

“True.” Timberfur nodded gently. 

Piketooth dipped his head. “It’s what he would want.” 

“How could StarClan take him?” Mosspelt turned her 
agonized gaze toward Leopardfur. 

Leopardfur met it. She needed to have an answer, not 
just for Mosspelt but for the whole Clan. She paused, taking 
a breath. “I know it feels like StarClan is testing us,” she told 
Mosspelt. Then she lifted her gaze and looked around the 
others. “We are threatened by ThunderClan and WindClan. 


Snow and rain have made fishing hard and left us hungry. 
And the river has been poisoned.” She let the words sink in 
for a moment before she spoke again. “But Frogleap was the 
first to meet any challenge. He risked fishing in fast water to 
find prey for his kits. He relished the challenge, and if he 
were here, he’d tell you to relish it too. He’d tell us a 
challenge is a chance to prove that a warrior is more than 
just claws and teeth. A warrior is heart and mind. It is not 
how we hunt and fight that defines our success, but how we 
face tragedy, how we rise above it. This is how we prove we 
are true warriors. That is what Frogleap would have done. 
That is what he would expect us to do, because he knew, 
just as I do, that RiverClan warriors are the truest of all, and 
if we face more challenges than other Clans, it is because we 
are stronger and braver than any of them.” 

Her words surprised her. She wondered for a moment 
where they’d come from. Had StarClan been guiding her 
thoughts? For a moment her heart lifted as she looked 
around the Clan and saw their eyes spark with 
determination. She had reached them, and they were 
repaying her with loyalty and courage. 

And yet Mosspelt was still watching her, eyes 
shimmering with grief. “How will I tell the kits?” she asked. 

Leopardfur had to force her paws not to tremble. She met 
Mosspelt’s gaze steadily. “I'll help.” 

Mosspelt got to her paws. Her Clanmates parted to let 


her through as she headed slowly for the nursery. 
Leopardfur followed, aware of Frogleap’s body, lying stiff 
and cold behind them. 

“Begin the vigil,” she whispered to Timberfur as she 
passed him. 

He nodded, and she padded after Mosspelt and ducked 
into the nursery. 

The kits were leaping from nest to nest, Mosspelt’s kits 
almost indistinguishable from Mistyfoot’s as they chased 
each other around the willow den. 

Mistyfoot looked up as she entered. 

Leopardfur nodded to her. “Will you take your kits to the 
elders’ den for a little while?” 

Primrosekit stopped and stared at her. “Why?” 

“Graypool gets lonely,” Leopardfur told her. “It’ll do her 
good to have some lively, energetic kits around her for a 
while.” 

“Can we go too?” Robinkit mewed. 

Mosspelt’s eyes glinted with pain. “You stay here with 
me.” She blinked at Woodkit and Dawnkit. “You too. There’s 
something I have to tell you.” 

Perchkit blinked at her eagerly. “Will you tellus too?” 

“Mistyfoot will tell you later.” Leopardfur shooed him 
away gently with her tail. 

It seemed to take a long time for Mistyfoot to gather her 
kits and bustle them out of the den. All the while, Leopardfur 


was aware of Mosspelt trying to stop herself trembling as 
she watched her kits. 

“Is something wrong?” Woodkit seemed to sense his 
mother’s distress. He padded toward her and blinked at her 
anxiously. 

Robinkit and Dawnkit clustered around him. 

“What is it?” Dawnkit mewed. 

“Why did Primrosekit have to go?” Robinkit asked. 

“We were having fun.” Dawnkit sounded indignant. 

“T have something to tell you.” Mosspelt’s mew was 
tight, as though the words were stuck in her throat. 

Woodkit moved closer. He was quivering, and Mosspelt 
sat down and drew him to her with her tail and tucked him 
close. 

“Frogleap has gone to join StarClan,” she mewed. 

“Why?” Dawnkit blinked at her. “Doesn't he like us 
anymore?” 

“He had no choice,” Mosspelt mewed. “There was an 
accident. In the river. He was hurt, and now he has to live 
with StarClan.” 

Woodkit’s eyes were round. “But he’ll come back when 
he’s better, won’t he?” 

Mosspelt shook her head. “He can’t come back,” she 
mewed. “He died. He can never come back.” Her eyes 
glistened. 

Leopardfur padded forward. “He can watch over you, 


though,” she told the kits. “He’ll watch you from StarClan.” 

Woodkit began to wail. “But I want to see him.” 

“Can we visit him?” Robinkit asked. 

“No.” Mosspelt leaned forward and grabbed his scruff, 
pulling himclose. 

Leopardfur could hardly bear to watch as he huddled 
against his mother, confused and sad and so small that she 
wondered how she could ever protect him from all the 
dangers he would have to face. 

Dawnkit sat down and stared at her mother. There was 
no grief in her gaze. “Can we eat soon?” she asked 
Mosspelt. 

Leopardfur flinched. The kit was too young to 
understand. She glanced at Mosspelt. What would the 
queen do? 

Dawnkit was still staring at her mother. “Frogleap said 
we could have our first bite of fish today. He said he’d bring 
us some.” She turned to Leopardfur. “Did he catch 
anything? He promised.” 

“Yes.” Leopardfur’s mew cracked as she pictured him 
proudly holding the carp. The carp was gone, washed away 
when the branch had struck him. But the rest of their catch 
was still on the bank. “We left it behind.” How could they 
have carried home prey along with their Clanmate’s body? 
But she must keep Frogleap’s promise. “T’Il go and fetch it.” 
She caught Mosspelt’s eye. “Will you be okay?” 


“Yes,” she whispered. “And thank you. They should 
taste Frogleap’s last gift to them.” The queen drew Dawnkit 
close and touched her nose to her head. “It’s going to be 
okay,” she promised. 


Leopardfur dreamed. The forest was falling. Birds 
fluttered into the sky as their nests dropped away beneath 
them. Mice and voles swarmed from beneath crumbling 
roots. Bark and wood tumbled into the river until it was 
choked, and the fish were caught in the tangle of branches, 
and the water, with nowhere left to flow, spread across the 
land, swallowing the reed beds and water meadows. 

Deep in the dream, Leopardfur squirmed in the nest. 
Panic dragged her deeper into darkness until she could 
hardly breathe. She struggled to wake, but the long trek to 
collect the abandoned catch and the vigil for Frogleap 
afterward—the rain falling harder as the night wore on—had 
exhausted her. And yet she hadn’t even buried Frogleap’s 
body, but had left it in the clearing because the burial patch 
was flooded. And the entire time, the river was rising around 
the reed beds and lapping over the edges of the camp. 

The wails of her Clanmates filled her dream. They grew 
shriller and more high-pitched until they became the shrieks 
of kits. Kits! Leopardfur woke at last. The squealing was 
real! She lifted her head sharply and looked around. Water 
had pooled at the bottom of her nest. It was swilling through 
the den. Flood! 


Pelt spiking, she leaped fromher nest. “Wake up!” 

Reedtail and Stonefur were already scrambling out of 
their waterlogged nests. 

The kits squealed again as Leopardfur shot from the den 
and splashed through the water that was swirling across the 
clearing. The river had burst its banks. It streamed through 
the camp, so high now that it almost reached the elders’ den. 

The other dens were awash, and her Clanmates were 
dashing here and there, grabbing hold of willow stems and 
bundles of reeds that were floating toward the river. The 
apprentices’ den had been torn apart. The reed wall had 
been breached, and nests were spinning toward the gap, 
where the current sucked one out, then another, and swept 
them into open water. 

Stonefur and Silverstream tried to snatch them as they 
washed past. 

“Leave them!” Leopardfur yowled. “Save the nursery!” 

The willow den was splitting open because the wind tore 
at it and water dragged at the base. As Stonefur and 
Silverstream raced toward it, Mosspelt shot out. Robinkit 
was swinging from her jaws. Dawnkit and Woodkit clung to 
her back. The kits shrieked in terror while Mosspelt stared 
around, her eyes wide with horror. 

“Head for the elders’ den!” Leopardfur told her. With any 
luck, the water wouldn’t reach it. 

As Mosspelt raced away, Mistyfoot burst from the 


nursery holding Reedkit’s scruff. She passed him to Stonefur 
and turned back inside. A moment later she appeared again, 
Primrosekit dangling from her jaws. 

Silverstream nodded toward the elders’ den. “Take her 
there! Pll get Perchkit and Pikekit.” She pushed her way 
inside the nursey. 

As Leopardfur raced to help, the river swelled and lifted. 
A wave swept through the camp. It hit the nursery, ripping 
away the woven walls. Exposed to the storm now, Perchkit 
and Pikekit squealed in their nest. Silverstream hooked her 
claws into it, but the water snatched it away. 

Leopardfur charged after it, but another wave knocked 
her sideways. As she floundered and tried to regain her 
balance, the nest swirled away through the gap in the camp 
wall and out onto the river. Perchkit and Pikekit stared over 
the edge, their faces twisted in terror, and she froze, and 
watched them spin away into the darkness, their squeals 
drowned by the roaring water. 

“No!” The earth seemed to tremble beneath her paws. 
She was helpless. 

Silverstream thrust her muzzle in Leopardfur’s face. 
“Save the others!” 

Another swell was howling toward the camp. 

Leopardfur snatched her thoughts from the lost kits. She 
scanned the clearing. “Where’s Mudfur?” 

Sedgecreek turned from where she was trying to hold the 


walls of the warriors’ den in place as the flood dragged at 
them. “He’s with Graypool.” 

Leopardfur felt a wash of relief. “What about 
Crookedstar?” she shrieked. 

“Thaven’t seen him.” Sedgecreek grabbed at a bundle of 
reeds. 

Stonefur was helping Loudbelly and Lakeshine gather 
pieces of broken den wall from the reeds. 

Leopardfur called to him. “Have you seen Crookedstar?” 

The gray tomshook his head. 

Surely the RiverClan leader wasn’t still in his den! 
Leopardfur rushed toward it as the water swelled and surged 
around her. It had reached the elders’ den. “Get Graypool 
out!” she called to Blackclaw. “And the kits!” She turned to 
Vixenleap and Emberdawn, who were watching the water rise 
with horror. “Evacuate the camp! Get everyone inland and 
onto high ground.” 

As the two she-cats began to round up their Clanmates, 
Leopardfur slewed to a halt outside Crookedstar’s den, 
sending arcs of water over the root walls. They were already 
half-submerged with water. A fresh wave swallowed them, 
and Crookedstar struggled out, coughing. She reached him 
and put her shoulder beneath his, helping him limp across 
the flooded clearing. 

“Is everyone safe?” he spluttered. 

Perchkit and Pikekit were washed away. She didn’t dare 


tell him. What could he do? She was fighting back panic, her 
thoughts reeling. Could she have saved them? Would they 
be safe if they managed to cling to their nest? Should she 
risk sending warriors after them? 

Vixenleap and Emberdawn were hurrying their Clanmates 
through a gap they’d torn in the sedge. The river beyond 
was no more than a channel. It was raging but narrow. With 
help, every cat could swim it, even Graypool, who stood at 
the edge now, her pelt on end. 

Crookedstar limped to a halt. “Go and help them.” He 
nudged her toward them. “PI follow.” 

She blinked at him. “I have to get you to safety.” 

“T want to check the elders’ den,” he told her. It was the 
last den left standing. 

“Every cat’s here,” she told him, nodding to where 
Mudfur was helping Graypool to cross the channel. 
Mosspelt and Mistyfoot were waiting to follow with their 
kits. 

He looked at her. “I need to make sure no cat is left 
behind.” 

Leopardfur let him go and hurried toward her Clanmates. 
Mistyfoot had crossed the channel with Primrosekit and 
watched Blackclaw follow with Reedkit. As he scrambled 
out, she led him into the darkness, where higher ground and 
safety were waiting. 

Mosspelt hesitated on the edge. Dawnkit was dangling 


from her jaws. Woodkit and Robinkit clung to her back. 

“Pll help you.” Leopardfur eased herself into the racing 
water, churning her paws as she struggled not to be swept 
away. “Come on,” she called to Mosspelt. 

Tentatively, Mosspelt waded toward her. Dawnkit 
squealed and struggled. Robinkit and Woodkit buried their 
muzzles deep into their mother’s fur. As Mosspelt pushed 
out into the channel, a roar sounded from upstream. 
Leopardfur’s pelt sparked with terror when a wall of water 
thundered toward them. Soon it reached them, curling into a 
wave that broke over her and pushed her underwater. 

She struggled to the surface. Thrashing her paws in 
panic, she felt Mosspelt’s pelt and hooked in her claws. The 
queen shrieked and floundered in her grip. As the wave 
receded, Leopardfur stared at her, growing stiff as dread 
hollowed her belly. Where were the kits? 

They’d disappeared. Only Mosspelt remained beside 
her. 

“I couldn’t hold on!” Wild with panic, Mosspelt tried to 
drag herself free of Leopardfur’s grip. “I have to save them.” 

“You can’t!” Leopardfur hauled her to the far side. 
Frogleap would never forgive her for letting Mosspelt go. 
As she dragged the queen, wailing, onto the bank, a flash of 
gray fur dived past them into the channel. 

“Tll save them!” 

“Crookedstar!” She recognized the RiverClan leader’s 


yowl as he disappeared beneath the water and resurfaced a 
few tail-lengths downstream. He rolled, flailing for a moment; 
then, finding his balance, he struck out and swam with the 
current. 

Mosspelt stared as he disappeared into the night, the 
water frothing around him. Desperation glittered in her eyes. 

Leopardfur nosed her inland, following her Clanmates, 
her thoughts reeling as they trekked to higher ground. 
Crookedstar would never survive the flood. He wasn’t the 
strong warrior he’d once been, and the water was too fierce 
even for a young cat. 

As the Clan halted, gathering higher up the hill, she 
gazed down the slope. It was hidden in darkness but she 
could hear the river roaring as though howling its victory 
over the fragile camp. Her fur clinging to her body, 
Leopardfur pressed back a shiver. 

Stonefur stood beside her. 

“Is everyone here?” she asked him softly. 

“All except the kits and Crookedstar,” he breathed back. 

“They’ll never survive,” she whispered. 

He glanced at her, his eyes dark. “Crookedstar has nine 
lives.” 

She nodded. But how many of them were left? Enough to 
save Mosspelt's kits? Enough to find his way back to 
shore? Leopardfur’s paws felt like stone. The rain was 
easing, but she barely noticed. How had she allowed so 


many kits to be lost? 

The cold began to reach into her bones, but she didn’t 
move. As the night slowly gave way to dawn, she gazed 
across the river. The gray light revealed a devastated camp, 
and her heart seemed to stop as she made out a gray shape 
on the bank downstream. It lay motionless on a stretch of 
mud. Reeds, crushed by the flood, were strewn around it. 

Behind her, Leopardfur could hear Primrosekit crying. 
She must be hungry. 

She padded to where Stonefur had curled in a bracken 
patch beside his Clanmates and woke him with the touch of 
her nose. “Organize a hunting patrol,” she whispered softly. 
“The Clan is hungry and I have to go and check on 
something.” 

He looked at her, blinking away sleep. “Where are you 
going?” 

“I can see Crookedstar,” she breathed. “I think he’d 
dead. I'm going to fetch him.” 

The bracken stirred as Mudfur nosed his way through. 
“I'm coming with you.” 

“Me too.” Stonefur padded to where Skyheart was 
curled beside Blackclaw. He poked her gently with a paw. 
“Can you organize a hunting patrol?” he asked her as she 
lifted her head. 

She scrambled to her paws, nodding. 

Leopardfur headed downslope, Mudfur at her heels. 


Stonefur hurried to catch up and fell in beside her. They 
didn’t speak as they followed the shore through the gray 
dawn. She could see Crookedstar’s body on the riverbank. It 
wasn’t far now. She slowed as she saw he was curled around 
three more bodies, as small as ducklings, bedraggled and 
unmoving. 

Mudfur broke into a run. She raced after him. By the time 
she pulled up beside the bodies, the medicine cat was 
already kneading Robinkit’s chest. 

“Rub their chests!” Mudfur nodded toward Dawnkit and 
Woodkit. 

“What about Crookedstar?” Leopardfur asked, dropping 
down beside Dawnkit and resting her paws on her tiny body. 

“He has more lives than these kits,” Mudfur mewed. 
“StarClan will take care of him.” 

As Stonefur began to work on Woodkit, glancing at 
Mudfur to learn what to do, Leopardfur’s pelt tingled with 
panic. Dawnkit felt so small beneath her pads, and so cold. 
Could she really be saved? 

“Do it!” Mudfur ordered sharply. 

Leopardfur copied him, pumping the she-kit’s chest with 
small rhythmic strokes as though squeezing water from wet 
moss. Crookedstar hadn’t moved. Her thoughts spiraled. Did 
he have any lives left? After the sickness had nearly killed 
him, perhaps he’d used his last one to save the kits. 

I'll be leader. The idea filled her with fear. I’m not ready. 


The flood had been more powerful that she could ever have 
imagined. How had she believed she could ever lead the 
Clan? There were so many dangers. And she was just one 
cat. How can I protect them? 

Suddenly, Dawnkit twitched beneath her paws and 
coughed. The kit rolled over and vomited water onto the 
shore. 

Leopardfur’s heart burst with gratitude. “Thank 
StarClan!” She grabbed Dawnkit and pulled her close, 
wrapping her tail around her to warm her. “It’s okay,” she 
soothed. “You’re safe now.” 

Mudfur sat back on his haunches and stared at Robinkit, 
his eyes shimmering. Stonefur was still working on Woodkit. 
He signaled with a nod for the gray tom to stop too. “It’s no 
good,” he mewed. “They’re gone.” 

Leopardfur breathed in Dawnkit’s scent. Frogleap had 
died and now two of his kits. As grief threatened to 
overwhelm her, Crookedstar coughed. A spasmran along his 
flank and he twitched suddenly into life. 

Mudfur darted to his side and sniffed him anxiously. 
“Crookedstar?” 

Crookedstar sat up slowly, his eyes glittering with shock. 
He glanced toward the kits and then met Leopardfur’s gaze. 
There was such darkness in his eyes, she shivered. She 
suddenly understood the responsibility he’d bome all these 
years—a burden heavier than she’d ever imagined. Holding 


Dawnkit closer, she dipped her head. 
When her time came to lead RiverClan, would she be 
ready? 





CHAPTER 21 
Se 


“Theres no sign of the kits.” Timberfur dipped his head to 
Crookedstar. Though it was nearly sunhigh, his pelt was still 
damp from the flood. The weak sunshine breaking through 
the clouds had done little to dry it, or warm the makeshift 
camp RiverClan had made on the slope above the island. 
Timberfur lowered his voice. “Or Frogleap’s body.” 

Leopardfur flinched. She should have insisted that 
Frogleap be laid out somewhere safe while the burial patch 
drained. Instead he had been washed from the camp along 
with the nests, the dens, and, worst of all, the kits. 

She hadn’t moved from where she’d lain down after 
she’d brought Robinkit’s and Woodkit’s bodies back from 
the riverbank, her grief too heavy to bear. Mudfur and 
Stonefur had placed them gently in a small hollow above the 
camp and covered them with grass until they could be 
buried properly. 

Mistyfoot had watched them do it, her eyes dark with 
grief, as though anticipating the moment when Perchkit and 
Pikekit’s drowned bodies would be carried home. She’d 
begged Crookedstar to let her search for them, but he’d told 
her to take care of her surviving kits and sent Blackclaw, 
Loudbelly, and Timberfur to look for the others. Mistyfoot 
had led Primrosekit and Reedkit to a stretch of grass beneath 


the bracken and wrapped herself around them, her eyes on 
the river, scanning the banks in desperate silence. 

How had so many kits been lost? Leopardfur swallowed 
back guilt. She did not dare go near the bush beyond the 
bracken where Mosspelt had made a nest for Dawnkit and 
curled up in it, her back to the rest of the Clan. Why couldn t 
I protect them? She had failed to protect so many of the cats 
she loved. Suddenly, Mudfur’s prophecy that Leopardfur 
would save RiverClan seemed no more than the foolish 
dream ofa fond father. Why had she ever believed it? 

Blackclaw was pacing now in the small clearing of the 
makeshift camp, his pelt prickling along his spine, while the 
Clan worked around him, weaving the bushes into dens and 
bundling reeds together for nests. “I want to go back out,” 
he growled, looking at Crookedstar. Perchkit and Pikekit were 
his kits, too, and Leopardfur understood his frustration. “I 
know we didn’t find them this moming, but we can’t give 
up,” he pressed. “I should have swum after them as soon as 
they were washed away.” He glared at Leopardfur. “Why 
didn’t you tell me they were lost?” 

She sat up, hollow with guilt. “What could you have 
done?” she murmured. “The water was too fierce.” She 
glanced toward the bush where Mosspelt was mourning 
Frogleap along with her kits. “Did you want Mistyfoot to 
lose you too?” 

Crookedstar swished his tail. “It’ll do no good to blame 


each other for our losses. We must concentrate on 
rebuilding.” He looked toward the camp. It was screened by 
the bracken, but every cat had seen the devastation. Water 
swilled over the clearing where RiverClan’s camp had been. 
The apprentices’ and warriors’ dens had been washed away 
along with the nursery, and the elders’ den stood, ruptured 
and bedraggled, its nest floating between the broken walls. 
“Reedtail, Skyheart, and Heavystep,” he mewed. “Hunt for 
land prey upslope.” He nodded to Cedarpelt. “Take a patrol 
along the shore and look for fish stranded by the flood.” 

Leopardfur felt a surge of respect for Crookedstar. Since 
he’d woken on the riverbank, he’d had a new sense of 
energy and assurance, as though the new life he’d been 
given had restored the youth and confidence that seemed to 
have faded over the past moons. While she’d been frozen 
by grief, he’d been giving orders and reassuring the Clan. 
Why hadn’t she appreciated him earlier? She’d been so 
hungry to take his place that she hadn’t realized how much 
she could learn just by watching him. 

He tumed now to Blackclaw. “You must search for your 
kits until you find them,” he mewed. She guessed he was 
thinking that Blackclaw would be little use to the Clan until 
he had found out what had happened to them. “Leopardfur.” 
For the first time that morning he addressed her. “Go with 
him, and take Stonefur,” he ordered. “Search the banks and 
inlets and pools. I want Perchkit and Pikekit brought home.” 


She got to her paws. Even weighed down by grief, she 
could follow orders. 

Crookedstar padded close to her. “Don’t make the Clan’s 
loss your loss,” he murmured. “Let them do the grieving 
while you keep them safe.” 

She blinked at him, then dipped her head. She could do 
that. At least, she could try. 

She led Blackclaw and Stonefur through the bracken 
toward the river. They picked their way around the outside 
of the flooded camp and took the path that led to the 
stepping-stones. Although they would still be underwater, it 
would be the safest place to cross. As they neared the 
shore, she pricked her ears. She could hear cats mewing 
beyond the bushes ahead. ThunderClan! She could smell 
their scent. She nodded a warning to Stonefur and Blackclaw 
and they stiffened. 

Stonefur tasted the air, his eyes widening. “What’s 
ThunderClan doing here?” 

Blackclaw growled. “An attack?” 

Leopardfur unsheathed her claws. ThunderClan must 
have seen a chance to take advantage of RiverClan’s 
misfortune. Anger pumped energy through her muscles. She 
plunged through the bushes and burst out, snarling as she 
saw Fireheart and Graystripe on the shore. They recoiled as 
she landed in front of them. 

“What are you doing here?” she hissed. 


Stonefur and Blackclaw skidded to a halt beside her. 

Blackclaw drew back his lips. “Why are you trespassing 
on our territory?” 

He stopped, and Leopardfur followed his gaze. It had 
flicked toward two tiny, bedraggled kits huddled at 
Fireheart’s paws. 

She stared at them, her heart pounding. Perchkit? 
Pikekit? They were barely moving, their eyes closed. She 
flattened her ears. What had the ThunderClan warrior done 
to them? 

Fireheart spoke. “We're not trespassing,” he mewed. 
“We pulled two of your kits out of the river and wanted to 
bring them home.” 

Blackclaw’s pelt was twitching. He was staring at the kits 
in disbelief. 

Stonefur padded forward and sniffed them. He glanced 
back at Blackclaw. “It’s true!” His blue eyes widened. 
“They’re your kits!” 

Relief and happiness flooded Leopardfur’s pelt. This 
was the first blessing StarClan had sent them in a moon. But 
she pressed it back and lifted her muzzle. She wasn’t going 
to show weakness to ThunderClan intruders. Blackclaw 
clearly felt the same. He hadn’t moved and his tail was 
lashing ominously. 

“What are you doing with them?” Leopardfur glared at 
Graystripe. Was this another of ThunderClan’s plots? “Were 


you trying to steal them?” 

Fireheart stared at her as though she was talking 
nonsense. “Don’t be such a mouse-brain,” he snapped. 
“Why would we nearly drown ourselves to steal RiverClan 
kits?” 

Blackclaw thrust his muzzle toward Fireheart and snarled. 
“IfI find out you've hurt them, P’IL—” 

“Blackclaw!” Leopardfur sensed the situation was 
spiraling out of control. They couldn’t fight here; there were 
kits. “Back off,” she told him. “We'll let these cats explain 
themselves to Crookedstar and see if he believes them.” She 
wasn’t going to let them get away without a proper 
explanation. With a sharp flick of her tail, she beckoned 
Fireheart and Graystripe to follow her back to RiverClan’s 
makeshift camp. 

Fireheart padded stiffly past her. “All right,” he mewed. 
“I just hope your Clan leader can see the truth when it’s in 
front of his nose.” 

Stonefur and Blackclaw carried the kits past the flooded 
camp and up the slope beyond, keeping a watchful eye on 
Graystripe and Fireheart. Even if they had found the kits, 
why had the two ThunderClan warriors been near the river in 
the first place? She suspected Graystripe had come to check 
on Silverstream. But why bring Fireheart? Had Bluestar sent 
them to spy? 

Crookedstar must have spotted them approaching. He 


met them on the slope, the half-built dens screened by the 
bracken. 

Silverstream slid out behind him with Graypool and 
Emberdawn. Leopardfur watched her closely as Graystripe 
stopped in front of the RiverClan leader. The silver tabby’s 
eyes gave nothing away as she watched the ThunderClan 
tom and his Clanmate with the same coolness as 
Emberdawn. 

Crookedstar narrowed his eyes at Graystripe and 
Fireheart. “ThunderClan spies?” His pelt rippled along his 
spine. “As if we didn’t have enough trouble!” 

Blackclaw and Stonefur placed Perchkit and Pikekit 
gently on the grass. 

“They found Mistyfoot’s kits,’ Leopardfur mewed. 
Silverstream ducked back into the bracken as she went on. 
“They claim they pulled them out of the river.” 

“T don’t believe a word of it,” Blackclaw spat. “You can’t 
trust a ThunderClan cat.” 

Crookedstar sniffed Perchkit, then nudged Pikekit with 
his nose. They looked practically newbom, staring, their 
eyes open now, and frightened. They must be very cold and 
hungry. 

Graypool hurried toward them and wrapped her tail 
around them. “Mistyfoot is coming,” she whispered. As 
they began to wail, she pulled themclose. 

Crookedstar’s gaze flitted suspiciously over Fireheart 


and Graystripe. “How did you come to have them?” 

Fireheart glanced at Graystripe. Was that exasperation in 
his eyes? “We flew across the river and broke into your 
camp without anyone noticing,” he mewed sarcastically. 

Leopardfur flexed her claws. She should rake his muzzle 
for talking to Crookedstar like that, but before she could 
move, the bracken shivered and Mistyfoot burst through. 
She rushed to her kits, snatching them from Graypool as 
though the old queen had stolen them, and pressed them to 
her belly. As she began to lick them furiously, they pressed 
against her, mewling, clearly relieved to feel her warmth and 
familiar scent. 

Silverstream slid out behind them, her gaze still cool as it 
flitted over Graystripe and Fireheart. Mudfur hurried out and 
began examining the kits, sniffing them anxiously as 
Mistyfoot washed them. Beetlenose, Lakeshine, and 
Ottersplash padded out behind him and watched the 
ThunderClan cats through narrowed eyes, not hiding their 
distrust. 

Crookedstar frowned at Fireheart. “Tell us what 
happened,” he ordered. 

Fireheart dipped his head and began to explain. 
Leopardfur let her hackles fall. At least the ThunderClan tom 
was showing some respect as he told the RiverClan leader 
how he and Graystripe had found the kits stranded on a mat 
of debris floating at the river’s edge. 


Blackclaw’s tail was still twitching, but Leopardfur found 
herself convinced by Fireheart’s story. If they’d wanted to 
steal the kits, why carry them to the flooded camp? There 
were quicker ways back to the ThunderClan border. Besides, 
why would ThunderClan want RiverClan kits? Especially in 
leaf-bare when a Clan had enough trouble feeding its own? 

But Silverstream was the first cat to comment. “It makes 
sense,” she mewed. “We saw them being washed away. It’s 
believable that they were swept along the river to where you 
found them.” 

Leopardfur shifted her paws. She guessed that 
Silverstream was more interested in convincing her 
Clanmates that Graystripe was innocent than in discovering 
the truth. But Graypool looked convinced too. And 
Beetlenose, Lakeshine, and Ottersplash were looking 
gratefully at the ThunderClan toms. Only Blackclaw watched 
the ThunderClan toms with any kind of hostility. He was 
probably angry that another Clan had rescued his kits for 
him. Leopardfur felt a twinge of sympathy for her Clanmate. 
She knew that even though he must be thankful his kits were 
alive, his pride must be hurt. The sooner Fireheart and 
Graystripe left, the better. She was relieved when 
Crookedstar bowed his head. 

“We're grateful to you.” His mew was polite but 
grudging, as though he too was uncomfortable being 
indebted to another Clan. 


Mistyfoot looked up, her gaze soft with gratitude. 
“Without you, my kits would have died.” 

Blackclaw’s ear twitched irritably. 

Fireheart dipped his head. “Is there anything we can do 
for you? If you can’t go back to camp and prey’s scarce 
because of the flood...” 

How dare he pity us. Leopardfur watched Crookedstar 
without moving. Would he accept help from this arrogant 
kittypet? 

“We need no help from ThunderClan,” Crookedstar 
growled. She was relieved as he went on. “RiverClan cats 
can look after themselves.” 

“Don’t be such a fool.” 

Graypool’s mew took Leopardfur by surprise. She jerked 
her head toward the elder. 

“You’re too proud for your own good,” the old she-cat 
rasped. “How can we feed ourselves? The river’s too fierce 
to fish and it’s practically poisoned; you know it is.” 

“What?” Graystripe exclaimed. 

Graypool explained. “It’s all the fault of Twolegs,” she 
mewed. “It’s filthy with trash froma Twoleg camp.” 

“The fish are poisoned,” Mudfur added. “Cats who eat 
them fall ill.” 

“Then let us help.” Fireheart was gushing with good 
intentions. Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. Were all kittypets 
this ignorant about warrior pride? “We’ll catch prey for you 


in our territory,” he went on, “and bring it to you, until the 
floods have gone and the river’s clean.” 

Didn’t he care about the warrior code at all? Perhaps he 
didn’t even realize he was breaking it. Leopardfur watched 
Graystripe, wondering if he’d object. Bluestar would never 
approve of her warriors giving ThunderClan prey to 
RiverClan. But Graystripe said nothing. 

Crookedstar’s eyes glittered with suspicion. “Would you 
really do this for us?” 

“Yes.” Fireheart puffed out his chest, clearly pleased 
with himself. 

“TI help too,” promised Graystripe. He looked at 
Silvers tream. Leopardfur was relieved that she looked away. 

“Then the Clan thanks you,” Crookedstar grunted. 
“None of my cats will challenge you until the floods go 
down and we can return to our camp. But after that, we will 
fend for ourselves again.” 

Leopardfur watched him turn away and hurried after him 
through the bracken. “Are you really going to let them hunt 
for us?” Her pelt prickled with unease. 

“If they’re foolish enough to break the warrior code for 
anther Clan, let them.” He stopped as the bracken opened 
onto the makeshift camp. Vixenleap and Shadepelt were still 
working on the dens. Skyheart was carrying a soggy mouse 
to Mosspelt’s den. Crookedstar met her gaze. “You can’t 
deny that we need help.” 


She held his gaze for a moment. “No,” she mewed. He 
was right. It would be foolish to let their Clanmates go 
hungry because of pride. And Fireheart was taking the risk, 
not them. But anger pricked in her paws. How had RiverClan 
become too desperate to be proud? 

Crookedstar padded away and began to help Vixenleap 
thread a willow stem through the branches ofa bush. 

Leopardfur watched him, her thoughts churning. Would 
ThunderClan hold this over RiverClan in the future? And 
how would it look to the other Clans if they found out? She 
shook out her pelt. What would she have done in Fireheart’s 
place? She frowned. She wasn’t sure. She wasn’t sure any 
other warrior would do what he had. 

Suspicion gnawed at her belly and she glanced back at 
the bracken. Fireheart and Graystripe would be heading 
home. Were they really just trying to help? 





CHAPTER 22 
Se 


In the quarter moon that followed, Perchkit and Pikekit 
recovered and Crookedstar seemed stronger than ever. He 
took the lead in rebuilding the camp, organizing the 
gathering of willow and reeds to weave into dens and patch 
the camp wall, and left Leopardfur to make sure the patrols 
brought back enough prey to feed the Clan. While the work 
was being done, the Clan slept in the temporary camp 
upslope. Leopardfur wondered if Crookedstar was delaying 
the move back to the island, fearing the river a little more 
than before. 

She pushed the thought away. RiverClan cats must 
never fear the river. It fed them and protected them from 
attack. It was their ally, not their enemy. But would Mosspelt 
ever believe that again? It had stolen her mate and two of 
their kits, and she barely left her nest now, except to fetch 
food for Dawnkit when she cried. 

Catching enough prey had been hard. There’d been a 
glut of fish at first, left stranded when the water had receded, 
but most had rotted before they could be eaten, and the 
flood had left the river empty of prey. The water meadow 
was still completely underwater and couldn’t be hunted yet. 
Leopardfur had found herself increasingly thankful for the 
prey Graystripe and Fireheart brought from the ThunderClan 


forest. But the more thankful she felt, the more resentful she 
became. It was humiliating to be so dependent on another 
Clan. 

She slid from her nest, hidden among ferns, and glanced 
around the hillside camp. She was still sleepy after her nap 
and stretched to wake herself up. The moming patrol had 
taken her far upriver. She’d wanted to see if the fish were 
returning. There were one or two darting in the water, but 
she hadn’t let the patrol catch them. Like the Clan, the river 
needed the chance to recover from the flood; then there 
would be more fish to hunt as leaf-bare dragged on through 
another moon. 

Vixenleap and Emberdawn were sharing a vole beside 
their den in a laurel bush. Vixenleap hooked a sliver of bone 
from between her teeth. “I still can’t believe ThunderClan 
has been sheltering Brokenstar all this time.” She was still 
clearly unsettled by last night’s Gathering. 

Emberdawn finished chewing. “I thought Nightstar was 
going to have a fit.” 

Leopardfur padded toward them. “He’s Brokentail now 
that Nightstar is ShadowClan’s leader,” she reminded them. 

Emberdawn frowned at her, puzzled. “Does that mean he 
doesn’t have nine lives anymore?” 

Leopardfur sat down. “I guess not.” 

“At least the alliance between WindClan and 
ThunderClan has been broken,” Vixenleap mewed. “Did you 


see how mad Tallstar was at Bluestar?” 

“Crookedstars the only one who stayed calm,” 
Emberdawn added. 

“Brokentail never threatened RiverClan kits—” Vixenleap 
paused, catching Leopardfur’s eye guiltily. She must be 
worried that it was too soon to talk of kits while Mosspelt 
was still mourning. 

Leopardfur blinked at her reassuringly. “I guess that’s 
one thing we didn’t have to deal with.” 

“Tt looked like there was going to be a fight,” Emberdawn 
mewed. “The way the warriors were hissing at each other. 
And the leaders didn’t even try to calm the situation.” 

“I thought StarClan would cover the moon, but they 
didn’t.” Vixenleap pushed the remains of the vole away as 
though she were suddenly no longer hungry. “Perhaps they 
wanted to see if the Clans would fight.” 

“There would have been a fight if Crookedstar hadn’t 
made sure ThunderClan had safe passage out of Fourtrees.” 
Leopardfur still felt the anxiety that had prickled through her 
fur as Crookedstar ordered RiverClan to guard the 
ThunderClan slope so that Bluestar could lead her warriors 
home. She’d been relieved that WindClan and ShadowClan 
hadn’t challenged them. 

“T hope ShadowClan and WindClan don’t hold it against 
us,” Vixenleap fretted. 

“T guess we had to support ThunderClan.” Emberdawn’s 


pelt twitched. “After Fireheart and Graystripe have shared 
so much prey with us.” 

Vixenleap gave her a waming look. The ThunderClan 
cats’ gift of prey was a touchy subject with the whole Clan. 
No warrior liked to depend on another Clan. 

“It's okay,” Leopardfur told her. “We might as well admit 
it to ourselves, even if we can’t let ThunderClan find out.” 

“Why are Fireheart and Graystripe taking such a risk for 
us?” Emberdawn’s eyes rounded with curiosity. “Bluestar 
will have their pelts if she finds out they’ve been feeding 
another Clan.” 

“Let’s hope they’re just being softhearted.” Leopardfur 
guessed that Graystripe was doing it out of concem for 
Silverstream, but that didn’t explain why Fireheart was being 
so generous. Was he really just being a loyal friend, or was 
he more like Tigerclaw, with a plan of his own playing out in 
the background? She pressed back a shudder. Her instinct 
told her that ThunderClan was not to be trusted. And yet, 
without the daily deliveries of ThunderClan prey, RiverClan 
would have gone hungry. 


Leopardfur paced along the shore and glanced through 
the forest toward the ThunderClan border. “Where are 
they?” 

The sun was near the horizon, and Fireheart and 
Graystripe still hadn’t appeared with the day’s offering of 
prey. 


Stonefur and Beetlenose followed her gaze, their pelts 
twitching uneasily. 

Silverstream padded toward the trees, her eyes rounding 
with worry. “I hope they’re okay.” 

“Why wouldn’t they be okay?” Leopardfur grunted. 
“They’re only carrying a bit of prey through the forest.” 

Silverstream blinked at her. “They’re carrying it across 
the border,” she mewed. “What if they’ve been caught?” 

Leopardfur didn’t care. The ThunderClan toms had made 
a promise and now they’d broken it. It was typical of 
ThunderClan. Perhaps they’d just wanted to make RiverClan 
depend on themso they could let them down. “I don’t know 
why l ever trusted them.” 

Beetlenose flexed his claws. “They’re probably watching 
us right now, purring their whiskers off because they made 
us wait.” 

Stonefur was frowning. “Silverstream might be right.” 

Leopardfur glared at him. Did he expect her to feel 
sympathy for Fireheart and Graystripe? Guilt pricked her 
belly. Perhaps she should. They had fed her Clan, after all. 
Dont be pathetic, she told herself. She lashed her tail. “Let’s 
not wait any longer,” she mewed. “This might be a trap.” 

Stonefur looked disappointed. “Shall we hunt along the 
shore and see if we can catch something to take back to the 
Clan?” 

“Good idea.” Leopardfur began to follow the two toms 


as Stonefur and Beetlenose headed upriver. 

Silverstream called her back. “Leopard fur, wait.” 

She turned, surprised to see how worried Silverstream 
looked. 

The silver tabby’s ears were twitching nervously. “Did 
you tell them not to come?” she asked Leopardfur as 
Stonefur and Beetlenose disappeared behind reeds. 

“Why would I?” Leopardfur tipped her head. 

“I know you don’t like taking prey from them,” 
Silverstream mewed. “And you hate Graystripe crossing the 
border.” 

“If I had stopped them from coming, I’d have been 
honest about it.” Leopardfur was annoyed. “I wouldn’t have 
made Stonefur and Beetlenose wait for nothing.” 

Silverstream looked again into the forest. Had she been 
hoping Leopardfur was the reason they’d not come? 
Anything else could mean Graystripe was in trouble. Or that 
he’d broken his promise to her Clanmates. 

Leopardfur felt a glimmer of sympathy for the silver she- 
cat. “I’m sure he’s fine,” she mewed. “They probably had 
other duties today that kept them busy.” She padded closer. 
“Tt might be for the best.” Part of her felt relieved. “We can’t 
keep taking ThunderClan prey forever. We need to fill our 
own bellies.” 

Silverstream’s eyes still glistened with worry. 

“It'll be easier for you if he doesn’t come anymore,” 


Leopardfur urged gently. “It’s time you started to get over 
him.” 

Silverstream stiffened. “I don’t want to get over him!” 
Her anger took Leopardfur by surprise. “I’m having his 
kits!” 

Leopardfur felt the cold breeze reach through her pelt. 
“What?” She stared at Silverstream. This couldn’t be true! 
“You can’t be!” 

“Yes, I can,” Silverstream told her. She stared at 
Leopardfur. No shame showed in her eyes. “Pm having them 
and I’m glad.” 

“How could you!” Leopardfur bristled with alarm. “Don’t 
you know the trouble this will cause! You might drag your 
Clan into a fight.” 

“Don’t be silly,” Silverstream told her. “When I have 
these kits, the truth will be between me and Graystripe.” 

“How can you be so dumb?” Leopardfur snapped. 
“These kits will be half-ThunderClan. Where are you going 
to raise them? What if Graystripe claims them?” 

“He’d never do that!” 

“Are you sure?” 

“Of course Pm sure.” 

Was Silverstream really that naive? “How will you 
explain the kits to your Clanmates?” Leopardfur thoughts 
were spinning. “You have no mate.” 

“Thave Graystripe.” 


“You have no RiverClan mate!” How did Silverstream 
think this was going to play out? “Do you think your 
Clanmates will be happy to raise ThunderClan kits? Do you 
think ThunderClan will Jet you? We could end up at war 
over them!” 

“Who would go to war over kits?” Silverstream snapped. 
“They’re mine and Graystripe’s. Our Clans have nothing to 
do with them.” 

Leopardfur stared at her. How had Crookedstar raised 
such a mouse-brain? “Don’t tell anyone you’re expecting,” 
she growled. 

“They’re going to notice,” Silverstream retorted. 

“Then don’t say who the father is.” 

“Pm not denying my relationship with Graystripe!” 
Silverstream’s hackles lifted. “I love him. What don’t you 
understand about that?” Her lip curled. “Oh, I forgot. You 
think being deputy is more important than love.” 

“Isn’t it?” Leopardfur wanted to claw the silly young 
warrior’s muzzle. Her words brought back a memory of 
Frogleap’s death, and a fresh tear in her heart. But she 
pushed the feeling down, measuring her next words. “Fine.” 
She steadied her breath. “I want you to end your 
relationship with Graystripe. Tell him you will never see him 
again.” 

“No!” Silverstream glared at her. “I can’t do that.” 

“Then take yourself to ThunderClan,” Leopardfur 


snapped. “Throw yourself on the mercy of those fox-hearts. 
See how welcome they make you.” She couldn’t imagine 
ThunderClan taking the silver tabby in. Why would they? 
Silverstream clearly couldn’t be trusted, even by the Clan 
she’d been raised in. “Perhaps ThunderClan likes half-Clan 
kits.” 

“Okay.” Silverstream narrowed her eyes. “I will.” 
Leopardfur froze as Silverstream went on. “And PI tell 
Crookedstar whose kits they are. PI tell him I love Gray—” 

“No!” Leopardfur cut in. Didn’t Silverstream realize 
she’d be exiled forever? RiverClan would have to throw her 
out. ThunderClan would never take her in. She’d become a 
rogue. / cant let that happen! She stopped her tail from 
trembling. “Okay,” she mewed. “I won’t tellanyone. You can 
sort it out in your own way. Just don’t say anything to 
Crookedstar.” She stared pleadingly at Silverstream. “Keep 
quiet for as long as you can.” Perhaps she could find a way 
around it. Perhaps, if she broke the news gently enough to 
Crookedstar, and carefully prepared their Clanmates, 
Silverstream would be allowed to stay. But what about the 
kits? Would Graystripe let RiverClan raise them? Would 
Bluestar? Her heart was pounding. She’d been right allalong 
to choose being deputy over love. Look at the trouble cats 
caused when they let their hearts make decisions. 





CHAPTER 23 
¥ 


Leopardfur surveyed the camp. There were no puddles left in 
the clearing, and the reed wall had been patched. She sat 
down and swept her tail over her paws, feeling pleased for 
the first time in days. The dens were freshly woven, and new 
nests, clean and dry, were ready for the Clan’s first night 
back on the island. It felt strange to see the nursery beside 
the elders’ den, but it made more sense to build it on higher 
ground. 

Perchkit and Pikekit were playing moss-ball outside. 
Primrosekit and Reedkit were wrestling nearby. It was almost 
as ifthe flood had never happened. Only Dawnkit was still in 
the nursery, watching from the entrance. Her eyes were 
round, her fur fluffed out. She glanced back inside, as 
though wondering whether Mosspelt would allow her to join 
in the other kits’ games. 

Leopardfur wondered if she should talk to the 
tortoiseshell queen and remind her that Dawnkit needed to 
play. Warrior skills begin in the nursery. Every Clan cat 
knew that the games kits played were more than games; they 
were first steps every cat took on the path to their warrior 
naming ceremony. When kits played hide-and-seek, or 
fought in play battles, they were practicing skills they would 
use every day as a warrior. It was important for kits to hone 


these skills in a nonthreatening environment, before they 
began their apprentice training. 

Dawnkit put a tentative paw outside and, when her 
mother didn’t call her back, took another step. 

“Here!” Primrosekit saw her and batted the moss ball 
toward her. 

Dawnkit’s eyes lit up and she pounced on it, her small 
tail sticking up excitedly. 

Leopardfur purred. I might be leader by the time they get 
their warrior names, she thought as she watched the kits 
chase the ball, pushing each other and tumbling over. Her 
heart ached suddenly as she thought of the dangers these 
kits would face in the future. But the fish were returning to 
the river, the Twoleg trash had been cleared away, and 
newleaf would come eventually. 111 protect them, Leopardfur 
told herself. Whatever comes, I'll protect them. 

The reed tunnel shivered and she jerked her head 
around. Which of the moming patrols had retumed first? 
WindClan scent touched her nose. She stiffened. What was 
WindClan doing here? 

Sedgecreek padded into camp, and Leopardfur flattened 
her ears as she saw Tallstar and Stagleap behind her, flanked 
by Beetlenose and Reedtail. 

The kits stopped playing and stared at the WindClan 
cats. 

“Who are they?” Perchkit whispered. 


Pikekit padded forward a few steps. “Are you 
ThunderClan?” he asked boldly. 

Tallstar swung his muzzle toward the dark gray kit and 
looked at him sternly. “I’m Tallstar,” he mewed. 

“He’s the WindClan leader,” Perchkit called out. 

“The leader!” Primrosekit blinked, clearly impressed. 
“Why’s he here?” 

Leopardfur padded forward and narrowed her eyes. 
“Why are you here?” she asked Tallstar. 

“You don’t know?” He met her gaze, his mew sour, as 
though he’d come with a grievance. 

“Fetch Crookedstar,” Leopardfur told Sedgecreek. 

The pale tabby dipped her head and hurried toward 
Crookedstar’s den. 

“He was waiting for us at the border,” Reedtail explained. 

“Unlike RiverClan,” Tallstar mewed, “I ask permission to 
cross borders.” 

Leopardfur shifted her paws uneasily. Clearly, the 
WindClan leader had come with a grievance. 

“Dawnkit!” Mosspelt appeared in the nursery entrance, 
her nose twitching anxiously. Her eyes widened as she saw 
Tallstar and she darted out. “I told you not to leave the 
nursery,” she chided as she shooed Dawnkit inside. 

“But I was bored,’ Dawnkit complained as she 
disappeared. 

Crookedstar was crossing the clearing, Sedgecreek at his 


heels. “Tallstar.” He stopped in front of the WindClan leader 
and nodded politely. His eyes glittered warily. “What brings 
you here?” 

Tallstar narrowed his eyes. “There are RiverClan scents 
inside our border,” he told Crookedstar. 

Stagleap shot Leopardfur an accusing look. She felt a 
tush of indignation but forced her fur to stay flat. 

Crookedstar turned his head. “Have you sent patrols 
across the border, Leopardfur?” He spoke lightly, as though 
he was sure she hadn’t. 

“Of course not,” she told him. Why would she? 

Satis fied, he turned back to Tallstar. “Neither have I,” he 
mewed, his gaze unapologetic. 

Tallstar bristled. “Are you accusing me of lying?” 

“No,” Crookedstar mewed. “But if RiverClan warriors 
have crossed the border, it wasn’t on my orders, or 
Leopardfur’s.” 

“And yet our prey has been taken.” Tallstar’s mewed 
deepened. “We’ve found blood near the scent line and the 
stench of your warriors near it.” 

Leopardfur’s thoughts were racing. She didn’t think 
Tallstar was lying, which meant one of her Clanmates had 
been taking prey from WindClan land. She didn’t blame 
them. RiverClan had been hungry. But she didn’t like her 
Clanmates deciding for themselves where to hunt, especially 
if it brought WindClan warriors to their camp. 


Tallstar looked at her directly now. “There was a time 
when RiverClan considered our land to be their land,” he 
mewed pointedly. “Perhaps they still do.” 

She met his gaze. Arguing would only make RiverClan 
seem cowardly. “RiverClan knows that the moor belongs to 
WindClan,” she mewed. “But after the hardships we’ve been 
through this past moon, I won’t condemn my warriors for 
crossing the border in search of prey. Letting kits go hungry 
seems to me to be a worse crime than trespassing.” 

Stagleap growled. “Or perhaps you’re still hoping to 
give thema taste for moor prey.” 

She glared at him. Was he determined to turn this into a 
fight? She’d admitted that RiverClan might be at fault. What 
more did he want? “It won’t happen again,” she mewed 
stiffly. She’d make sure of that. There was no way she was 
going to be forced into apologizing to WindClan. They 
couldn’t even keep hold of their own territory without 
ThunderClan’s help. 

Tallstar grunted. “I’m worried that RiverClan thinks that 
you established some sort of right to hunt on our land while 
we were gone.” 

Crookedstar fluffed out his fur. “Of course not,” he 
mewed. “There has clearly been a mistake. But we know the 
moor belongs to WindClan now, and we will respect your 
borders in the future.” 

“It's just a shame you didn’t respect them in the past,” 


Stagleap grunted. 

Leopardfur swallowed back anger. “Now that the river’s 
back to normal, and the floodwater is gone, we have no need 
to hunt on your land.” 

“Need has nothing to do with it!” Tallstar’s gaze flicked 
toward her. “No Clan should be hunting on our land, 
whatever their need.” 

Crookedstar lifted his muzzle. “I’m sorry my warriors 
have trespassed. It won’t happen again.” 

“And will the trespassers be punished?” Tallstar 
growled. “They broke the warrior code.” 

“If I find out who crossed the border, I will speak to them 


” 


“Speak to them?” Tallstar interrupted the RiverClan 
leader. “They should be put on den-clearing duty for a 
moon!” 

“I will deal with my warriors as I see fit.” Crookedstar’s 
eyes narrowed. “Are you sure you came here because of 
trespassing?” he asked. “Surely that could have waited until 
the next Gathering?” 

“Why else would I come?” Tallstar snapped. 

“Perhaps you’re angry with us for protecting 
ThunderClan at the last Gathering. You and Nightstar 
seemed ready to claw their pelts off.” 

“That has nothing to do with it.” Tallstar was bristling, 
and Leopardfur wondered if Crookedstar had touched a 


nerve. The WindClan leader had every right to resent 
ThunderClan. They had claimed to be his ally while 
harboring the cat that had driven them from their home. It 
must have come as a shock to learn that ThunderClan 
wasn’t the friend WindClan had thought it was, and 
Crookedstar had been the only leader to defend Bluestar’s 
actions at the Gathering. Tallstar’s resentment might have 
spread to include RiverClan. She glanced at the WindClan 
leader. Surely he could see that RiverClan wasn’t anything 
like ThunderClan. ThunderClan only pretended to be 
honorable. They’d helped WindClan because it gave them a 
chance to feel superior and show off their power. 

Tallstar’s tail was flicking ominously. “If you’re not 
going to punish the warriors that hunted on our land, then 
you should at least make up for the prey they stole.” 

“It’s leaf-bare,” Crookedstar growled. “How are we 
supposed to find extra—” 

“Crookedstar.” A mew sounded at the camp entrance. 
Mistyfoot stumbled in, her eyes glazed with shock. 

Crookedstar turned to face her, his eyes wide as though 
she were a ghost. “Mistyfoot...isit...?” 

Leopardfur’s belly tightened. Why did Crookedstar look 
fearful? What had happened? 

Tallstar and Stagleap turned to look at the RiverClan 
queen. Sedgecreek hurried to meet her. 

“Silvers tream.” Mistyfoot sounded like she could hardly 


say the name. 

Leopardfur felt cold. Something bad had happened. 

“Silverstream’s dead,” Mistyfoot mewed. 

Leopardfur froze. Dead? How? Why? Thoughts flashed 
like lightning in her mind. Silverstream couldn’t be dead. She 
was carrying kits! She looked at Crookedstar. 

He was staring at Mistyfoot, barely seeing her. 
“Silvers tream?” He swayed on his paws. “Dead?” 

Leopardfur had to take charge. Let them do the grieving 
while you keep them safe. It was too late to save 
Silverstream. But she could get the Clan through this 
tragedy. “What happened?” she asked Mistyfoot. 

Mistyfoot was staring in confusion at Tallstar, as though 
not knowing what to say in front of strangers. 

Tallstar dipped his head, clearly having decency enough 
to know that he was not wanted here. “We’ll talk about the 
border crossing another time,’ he mewed. “I’m sorry for 
your loss.” 

Crookedstar stared blankly as the WindClan leader 
turned and led Stagleap out of camp. “You’ll get your prey,” 
he mumbled as though barely aware they'd left. 

Leopardfur struggled to hold back panic. How had 
Silverstream died? Did I push her too hard into making a 
decision? Did she do something rash? Her heart pounded. 
“Tell us what happened,’ she demanded, staring at 
Mistyfoot. 


Mistyfoot glanced nervously at Crookedstar. There was 
an apology in her gaze. 

“Tell us,” Leopardfur ordered. Whatever the queen was 
going to reveal, Crookedstar would find out anyway. 

Mistyfoot’s eyes glistened with grief. “She gave birth to 
kits.” 

Crookedstar stared at her, his eyes narrowed. 

Mistyfoot went on. “They fetched Cinderpaw, but 
Silverstream was bleeding too much.” She swallowed. “They 
couldn’t—” 

“They?” Crookedstar was staring at her. “Who are 
they?” 

“Fireheart and Graystripe,” Mistyfoot told her. 

Anger fizzed beneath Leopardfur’s pelt. Fireheart and 
Graystripe? How were those two ThunderClan fox-hearts 
present at every one of RiverClan’s tragedies? She knew 
Graystripe’s connection to Silverstream, but why was the 
former kittypet involved? 

“What do they have to do with it?” Leopardfur 
demanded as the RiverClan leader padded unsteadily toward 
Mistyfoot, his eyes bright with rage. 

“Graystripe is the father,” Mistyfoot mewed. 

Leopardfur’s eyes jumped to her leader. So now the truth 
is out for every cat to see. How would he react? 

But Crookedstar didn’t seemas angry as she would have 
expected. Perhaps grief had softened his fury. Instead, he 


looked lost. “Where are they now?” he mewed thickly. 

“Graystripe took them to ThunderClan,” Mistyfoot told 
him. “A ThunderClan queen is nursing them.” 

“And Silverstream?” Crookedstar sounded like he could 
hardly say the words. 

“Graystripe buried her” Mistyfoot mewed. “At 
Sunningrocks.” 

Leopardfur’s shock hardened into anger. “He buried 
her?” How dare he? “By what right? She’s not his kin! She’s 
not even his Clan! They didn’t even hold a vigil for her!” 
What kind of rogues were they? Didn’t ThunderClan know 
that a warrior was supposed to have a vigil? Her pelt was 
bristling now. Rage fired through her “She was our 
Clanmate, not his!” What had made ThunderClan so 
arrogant? They’d protected WindClan while feeding their 
enemy, and now they were making decisions for RiverClan. 
And all the time, they acted like they were better than any 
other Clan. How dare they deny RiverClan the chance to 
mourn Silverstream? She glared at Mistyfoot. “He should 
have brought Silverstream and her kits home, where they 
belong!” 

“Home?” Reedtail’s pelt ruffled. “ThunderClan kits don’t 
belong here.” 

Sedgecreek blinked at him “But they’re only half 
ThunderClan.” 

“Half is too much,” Reedtail growled. “If ThunderClan 


wants them, they should keep them.” He met Leopardfur’s 
gaze. “And I won’t be the only RiverClan cat to say so.” 

“If they do”—Crookedstar pushed himself to his paws 
and glowered at the pale gray tom—‘they’ll have to deal 
with me.” 

Reedtail dropped his gaze, but the fur was still prickling 
along his spine. 

Crookedstar looked at Mistyfoot. “Take me to where 
Silverstream is buried,” he mewed. “We will hold a vigil for 
her there.” 

Mistyfoot dipped her head and padded out of camp. 

Leopardfur watched him follow her. “Pll wait for the 
patrols to return, then bring the Clan,” she told him. She 
dreaded setting paw on Sunningrocks. It was full of 
memories. Cats she’d loved had been killed there in battle. 
And now Silverstream had died and been buried there. / 
should have protected them better. 

Guilt wormed beneath her pelt. J should have looked 
after Silverstream. She'd tried, but she’d failed. She might 
even have driven the silver tabby to her death by forcing her 
to choose. Had she chosen Graystripe? Was that why she’d 
been at Sunningrocks instead of with her Clan? What would 
have happened if Leopardfur had simply promised to 
support herno matter what she did? 

Leopardfur closed her eyes. The river chattered beyond 
the reeds. A warbler was singing there. Perhaps Mudfur had 


been right to doubt her. Perhaps she wasn’t cut out to be 
deputy. Her heart ached. J wont give up. She opened her 
eyes. Perchkit was chasing the moss ball again while Pikekit 
and Primrosekit chased after him. Silverstream’s kits should 
grow up here, beside their kin. They should learn what it was 
to be a RiverClan cat. 

She unsheathed her claws. From now on, I’m going to 
get it right, she thought. I’m going to do whatever it takes 
to keep my Clanmates safe. All of them. And she would 
begin by getting Silverstream’s kits back from ThunderClan. 


The sun was dipping toward the horizon, bringing with it 
a chill that reached through Leopardfur’s pelt. 

Ottersplash and Piketooth were weaving reeds, putting 
the finishing touches on the warriors’ den. Mosspelt was 
sitting outside the nursery, picking apart a trout to give the 
softest flesh to the kits while Mistyfoot watched 
distractedly. Around the clearing, the rest of the Clan was 
settling down to its evening meal, but they were on edge. 
Every cat had one eye on the setting sun, and Leopardfur 
couldn’t sit still. 

Mistyfoot got to her paws. “I'll be back soon with some 
new friends,” she told her kits before she crossed the 
clearing and stopped beside Leopardfur. “Are you ready?” 

Leopardfur nodded. “Yes.” 

The past days had been difficult. The long vigil at 
Sunningrocks had made her heart ache, and she hadn’t been 


able to shake the thought that she could have prevented 
Silverstream’s death. Mudfur had told her that ifa birth went 
badly, there was little any cat could do. But perhaps, if 
Silverstream had been at home instead of at Sunningrocks 
with a ThunderClan apprentice as her medicine cat, she 
might have lived. 

Despite Crookedstar’s threat, there had been a long 
argument in RiverClan about whether they should demand 
that ThunderClan return Silverstream’s kits. Anger still 
chumed in Leopardfur’s belly when she remembered how 
Reedtail had been only one of many voices calling for the 
kits to be left with ThunderClan. But it was clear to 
Leopardfur that Silverstream’s kits belonged in RiverClan. 
No amount of ThunderClan blood would change that. How 
could her Clanmates even think about letting ThunderClan 
raise RiverClan warriors? 

Thank StarClan Mosspelt had wanted them. She’d 
begged to be allowed to nurse them. And what cat would 
deny her after she’d lost Robinkit and Woodkit? After 
Mosspelt had spoken, even Reedtail had stopped arguing. 

But Bluestar had been even harder to persuade. She had 
sent Leopardfur away the first time she’d led a patrol to 
ThunderClan to demand the kits back. But Leopardfur had 
persisted, and the second time she’d gone to the 
ThunderClan camp, Bluestar had conceded that the kits 
should grow up in their mother’s Clan. 


Graystripe had promised to bring them at sunset, and 
now the fiery sun was sinking into the reed bed. Would he 
keep his promise? He was ThunderClan after all. 

Crookedstar was already waiting at the camp entrance as 
Leopardfur followed Mistyfoot around the clearing. 

“Do you think ThunderClan has already named them?” 
he asked as they padded out of camp. He sounded as 
anxious as an apprentice waiting for his assessment. 

“Who cares?” Leopardfur mewed. “We’ll give them 
good RiverClan names, whatever they’ve been called in the 
ThunderClan camp.” 

Mistyfoot glanced at her. “We should give them names 
that suit them, not their Clan.” 

“We need ThunderClan to know that they’re ours.” 
Leopardfur headed toward the stepping-stones. 

By the time they reached them, the moon was beginning 
to rise, and the river was a silvery ribbon that reflected the 
pale sky. In the twilight, Leopardfur could see Graystripe 
waiting on the other side of the river. Relief washed her pelt. 
He’d kept his promise. For the first time, she felt a twinge of 
sympathy for the ThunderClan tom. It wouldn’t be easy to 
watch another Clan take his kits. But he’d made his nest 
when he’d become mates with a RiverClan warrior. Now he’d 
have to lie in it. 

She stopped and nodded Mistyfoot forward. “You fetch 
them,” she mewed. “We’ll wait here.” The queen knew 


Graystripe better than she did, and she didn’t want to spook 
himat the last moment in case he changed his mind. 

As Mistyfoot headed away, Crookedstar shifted his 
weight from one paw to another. She glanced at him. This 
would be the first time he’d meet Silverstream’s kits. Was he 
scared he’d make the wrong impression? She felt a sudden 
tush of affection for him. He’d never been this nervous 
waiting for a battle. 

A few moments later, Mistyfoot was hopping back 
across the stones, a kit dangling from her jaws. Graystripe 
was following with the other one. She stopped as she 
reached Crookedstar and placed a small, dark gray tom-kit at 
his paws. His pelt was thick and long like the RiverClan 
leader’s, but his eyes were amber. As Crookedstar bent 
down to lick the kit’s head, Graystripe hung back, the other 
kit wriggling as it swung beneath his chin. 

Leopardfur beckoned him forward with a flick of her tail, 
impatience sparking in her pelt. He didn’t move, and she 
glanced nervously at Mistyfoot. Had the ThunderClan tom 
changed his mind? 

“He wants to speak to Crookedstar,” Mistyfoot mewed 
softly. 

“He can speak to both ofus.” Leopardfur didn’t trust the 
ThunderClan tom any more than she’d trust a rat. Both 
looked harmless, but were dirty and unexpectedly vicious. 
She glared at Graystripe, remembering all the heartache he’d 


caused her Clan. 

Crookedstar blinked at him. “We’ll take good care of 
them,” he promised. “They will be safe and loved, and 
they’ll grow into strong warriors.” 

Graystripe padded closer. His eyes were glittering 
anxiously. 

Leopardfur tensed. “You can put the kit down and go,” 
she mewed sharply. 

He leaned forward and dropped the second kit next to its 
littermate. It was a she-kit, as pretty as her mother, with blue 
eyes and a tail that promised to be like a plume of smoke. 
Crookedstar nuzzled her, purring. 

But Leopardfur was still watching Graystripe 
distrustfully. “Say your good-byes.” She tried not to sound 
too sharp, but she didn’t want him to linger. The longer this 
took, the more chance there was that he’d change his mind. 

Graystripe dipped his head, then looked earnestly at 
Crookedstar. 

Leopardfur saw the RiverClan leader tense. Graystripe 
clearly had something important to say. 

“T want to come with them,” Graystripe mewed. 

Crookedstar looked puzzled. “To the camp?” 

Leopardfur cut in. “It’s better to leave them here,” she 
mewed. “You’re not very popular in RiverClan.” 

“I know.” Graystripe’s gaze didn’t waver. “And I don’t 
care. I just want to be with my kits. I want to join RiverClan.” 


Leopardfur stared at him. Did he have bees in his brain? 
No way! She bit back the words. It was up to Crookedstar to 
tell this ThunderClan tom that RiverClan didn’t let enemy 
warriors join. She blinked at Crookedstar expectantly, but 
was surprised to see the old tom gazing thoughtfully at 
Graystripe. 

Is he actually wondering whether to agree? 
“Crookedstar, we should go,” she mewed. “The Clan will be 
waiting to meet Silverstream’s kits.” And they wont be 
waiting for an ugly great ThunderClan tom. 

Crookedstar swished his tail, signaling her to be quiet. 
His gaze was stillon Graystripe. 

Mistyfoot watched, her ears twitching anxiously. 

“Are you willing to swear complete and unwavering 
loyalty to RiverClan?” Crookedstar asked Graystripe. 

Leopardfur bristled. “What are you saying? Are going to 
let him join?” 

Crookedstar ignored her and went on. “Will you hunt for 
RiverClan? Will you protect RiverClan? Will you fight for 
RiverClan?” 

Graystripe held the RiverClan leader’s gaze. “Yes.” 

“Even against ThunderClan?” 

Graystripe swallowed. “If it means being with my kits, 
yes,” he mewed. “I swear it. I loved Silverstream with all my 
heart. I always will. My kits are RiverClan and I will be too.” 

Leopardfur swallowed back outrage. This was madness. 


She had to reason with Crookedstar. “He's a ThunderClan 
warrior,” she told him. “He killed Whiteclaw—” 

“I didn’t kill him!” Graystripe interrupted. “It was an 
accident.” 

He was still making excuses! Leopardfur glared at 
Crookedstar. “How can you trust him so easily? He could 
swear anything just to worm his way into our camp. You 
might as well invite a foxto sleep in the warriors’ den.” 

Crookedstar turned his emerald-green gaze on her. The 
she-kit was sniffing his paws while the tom-kit padded 
beneath his belly. “I believe him,” he mewed. “Some fathers 
will do anything to protect their kits.” 

“They won’t need protecting! They’ll be with us!” 
Leopardfur snapped. 

“He wants what’s best for his kits,” Crookedstar mewed. 
“For Silverstreams kits. If he’s willing to give up his Clan for 
them, doesn’t that show his loyalty and his love, both for 
the kits and for Silverstream?” 

Loyalty? Leopardfur stared at him. How was switching 
Clans loyal? Crookedstar was letting emotion sway him. 
Would he feel the same way if these weren’t his daughter’s 
kits? Had he decided to trust Graystripe just because 
Silverstream had? She curled claws into the ground. “I think 
you’re making a mistake,” she growled. 

Crookedstar didn’t meet her gaze. “This is the best for 
the kits, and that’s good enough for me.” 


What about the rest of the Clan? Leopardfur swallowed 
back her objection. She could see that Crookedstar had 
made up his mind. Pressing back anger, she dipped her head 
the RiverClan leader. “Okay,” she mewed. “Let’s take the kits 
home.” 

As Crookedstar picked up the she-kit and Mistyfoot 
grabbed the tom, Leopardfur shot Graystripe a warning look. 
She hadn’t forgotten what had happened at the gorge. And 
she wouldn’t be forgetting any time soon. She’d be keeping 
a very close eye on the ThunderClan tom, and the first 
mistake he made that endangered her Clan would be the last. 





CHAPTER 24 
Se 


The full moon shone over the reed beds as though it had 
been guarding the camp while the patrol had been gone. 
Leopardfur followed Crookedstar from the river, slowly 
making their way home. Stonefur shook water from his pelt. 

They had taken their time returning from the Gathering, 
relishing the breeze. It felt deliciously cool after another long 
hot day. The blazing greenleaf weather had brought prey 
and peace to RiverClan, and Leopardfur was pleased to see 
her Clanmates trekking back to camp ahead of her, plump 
and sleek in the moonlight. 

Now that they had crossed the river, Leopardfur felt it 
was safe to speak her mind without being overheard. “Did 
anyone hear gossip about Tigerclaw?” She blinked 
hopefully at Stonefur. 

He shook his head. “ThunderClan was tight-lipped,” he 
told her. “They didn’t say any more than Bluestar.” 

“And she only said that Tigerclaw had left ThunderClan 
and Fireheart was her new deputy.” Leopardfur frowned. 

“Did you ask Fireheart about it?” Crookedstar’s eyes 
gleamed in the moonlight. 

“Of course,” she replied. “But he was evasive. He just 
said Tigerclaw was no longer a ThunderClan cat. He mostly 
wanted to know how Graystripe was.” She glanced ahead to 


where the ThunderClan tom was padding toward camp with 
her Clanmates. It had been his first Gathering as a RiverClan 
warrior, and she wasn’t sure which had been harder for the 
ThunderClan tom—leaving his kits or facing his former 
Clanmates. 

She had to admit he’d tried hard to settle into his new 
Clan, and though his fishing skills were still poor, he brought 
back more than enough land prey to make up for it. He 
pretended not to notice when Reedtail and Blackclaw 
refused to eat it. 

“Tigerclaw can’t be dead,” Crookedstar grunted. 
“They'd have told us.” 

“Yes.” Stonefur nodded. “It would be the easiest way to 
explain his absence.” 

Leopardfur had been unsettled by the news of 
Tigerclaw’s disappearance. She remembered his behavior in 
the battle over WindClan—how ruthless he’d seemed, how 
manipulating. And yet she had once felt a true connection 
with him. He was the only cat she’d ever met who’d been 
willing to talk about a different future for the Clans, and what 
their places might be in it. She’d quietly looked forward to 
seeing him at Gatherings, wondering each time what he 
would do or say, and while she hadn’t fully trusted him in 
many moons, she’d still imagined herself becoming leader 
alongside him. It was hard not to admire his forward-thinking 
determination. The Clans need fresh energy to sweep away 


old beliefs. She still agreed with that. But, now that he was 
gone, who would help her shake things up? 

She glanced at Stonefur. “I don’t know why Bluestar 
didn’t tell us everything.” She swished her tail. “Tigerclaw’s 
disappearance might affect us all.” 

Stonefur’s eyes were dark with worry. “Could it be linked 
with the rogues that have been seen in the forest?” 

Leopardfur looked at Stonefur, surprised. Not long 
before Graystripe and his kits had joined RiverClan, she had 
been part of a group of RiverClan cats sent to help 
ThunderClan fight off a group of rogues. The cats had been 
strong fighters, for rogues—but could they best Tigerclaw? 

Crookedstar pricked his ears. “How?” 

“Perhaps they kidnapped him,” Stonefur guessed. 

“Why would they?” Leopardfur glanced at him. The 
gray tom was grasping for butterflies. “Besides, I can’t 
imagine rogues would be able to hold a warrior like 
Tigerclaw.” 

“He might have caught the sickness that’s been hurting 
ShadowClan,” Stonefur mewed. “Maybe ThunderClan sent 
him away to stop it spreading.” 

“That would be harsh, even for ThunderClan,” 
Leopardfur mewed. 

“But why keep the reason for his disappearance a 
secret?” Stonefur looked puzzled. 

Crookedstar grunted. “There’s no point in guessing,” he 


mewed. “I’m sure Bluestar has her reasons.” He hurried 
ahead and caught up to his Clanmates. 

Leopardfur sighed. She’d been hoping he’d say 
something about a kittypet becoming ThunderClan’s deputy. 
The thought made her claws itch with annoyance. She 
hadn’t forgotten that Fireheart had been present at the 
scene of Silverstream’s death, or the strange scene when he 
and Graystripe had turned up during the flood with Pikekit 
and Perchkit. She had appreciated the prey they’d brought 
then, but knowing what had come afterward, she couldn’t 
help but question their motives. Besides, how could a 
kittypet lead warriors? And Fireheart was so self-righteous. 
He acted like he wouldn’t take prey from a kit. But he’d 
clearly been quietly working to become Bluestar’s most 
trusted warrior. At least Tigerclaw had been honest about 
his ambition. Leopardfur shuddered at the thought of 
standing next to Fireheart on the Great Rock one day. A 
kittypet, for StarClan’s sake! How humiliating. Standing 
beside Tigerclaw would have been far more dignified. 


The juicy carp between Leopardfur’s jaws was making 
her mouth water. Ottersplash and Blackclaw padded beside 
her, holding their catch. The hunt had gone well, but then, it 
was hard not to catch fish when the days were so warm. The 
carp had practically swum into her mouth. 

Ottersplash stopped as they neared the camp, and 
Leopardfur stiffened when the sleek ginger she-cat dropped 


her fish and looked around, her nose twitching. 

“What do you smell?” Leopardfur laid her own fish on 
the ground. 

“Blood.” 

Blood? Before she could taste the air, the reeds rustled 
behind them. 

Graystripe padded out. His pelt was ragged where a 
clump of fur had been tom out. Stonefur and Skyheart were 
with him, their muzzles scratched, their ears torn. 

“Fetch Mudfur,”” Leopardfur told Blackclaw. She darted 
toward the patrol, sniffing their wounds anxiously. “What 
happened?” 

“We were patrolling near Fourtrees,” Stonefur told her. 
His ragged ear was twitching. “We heard yowling and went 
to check. A ThunderClan patrol was being attacked by...” 
He hesitated, his eyes glittering. “By rogues.” 

Why did he look so shocked? “We know rogues are 
roaming the forest,” she mewed. 

Stonefur shivered. “Tigerclaw was with them.” 

Tigerclaw? Her gaze flitted to Graystripe. “Did you know 
about this?” 

His pelt ruffled. “Why would J know?” 

Because you 're ThunderClan. The words were on the tip 
of her tongue, but she bit them back. Even she had to admit 
that he had been a loyal RiverClan warrior since he’d joined 
them—at least as far as they knew. She looked back at 


Stonefur. “Did you drive them off?” 

“Of course.” Stonefur shook out his pelt. “But they 
fought hard. Tigerclaw had clearly taught them warrior 
moves.” 

Leopardfur’s belly tightened. “Why would Tigerclaw 
attack his own Clan with a bunch of rogues?” She didn’t 
expect an answer. She could barely believe it was true. 
Something must have driven himto it. 

She looked at Graystripe again. He must know more than 
he’d told them about what had gone on in the ThunderClan 
camp. “Why did Tigerclaw leave ThunderClan?” she 
demanded. 

“I don’t know.” Graystripe held her gaze. But she could 
see he was uneasy. His ear was twitching. 

“Did he say anything before he left?” she pressed. 
“Something that might explain why he’s fighting alongside 
rogues?” 

“He didn’t say anything,” Graystripe dropped his gaze. 
“He just left.” 

Was he telling the truth? “You’re a RiverClan cat now,” 
she growled. “You can’t keep ThunderClan’s secrets if it 
means putting RiverClan in danger.” 

Graystripe shifted his paws. “I really don’t know what 
Tigerclaw is up to or why he’s fighting alongside rogues.” 

Blackclaw was hurrying back from the camp with 
Mudfur. The medicine cat held a leaf wrap and cobweb in his 


jaws. He slid past Leopardfur and began examining the 
injured patrol. 

“Sit down,” he told Skyheart, and began smearing a 
poultice from the leaf warp onto the deepest claw marks 
beside her muzzle. 

Leopardfur frowned. She needed to tell Crookedstar. It 
was one thing having rogues in the forest; it was another if 
they were led by Tigerclaw and using warrior battle skills. 
What could the former ThunderClan deputy be up to? Her 
pelt ruffled. 

She couldn’t help feeling there was something 
Graystripe wasn’t telling her. Tigerclaw had only wanted the 
best for his Clan. Why would he leave? He’d been planning 
to become leader and make the Clans stronger and better 
than they’d ever been. Why would he attack them? And 
with rogues? 

Her tail quivered. None of this made sense. 


Leopardfur lifted her head. An acrid scent had woken 
her. She blinked and stared into the darkness. What was it? 

“Leopardfur!” Loudbelly called through the entrance. 
His mew was taut. The other nests rustled. Sedgecreek and 
Vixenleap jerked awake. 

Leopardfur scrambled from her nest. “What’s 
happened?” 

“Quick!” Loudbelly ducked outside and Leopardfur 
followed him. The night air was tainted with the smell of 


smoke. 

The dark brown tom blinked at her, fear in his eyes. 
“There’s a fire.” 

“Where?” Leopardfur flinched as a bolt of lightning 
streaked across the sky. 

“The other side of the river” Loudbelly stared at the 
trees beyond the reed beds. As Leopardfur followed his 
gaze, thunder rumbled over the forest. Beyond the river, an 
orange glow lit the sky. 

The Clan began to hurry from their dens, looking around 
in alarm as smoke drifted across the camp. Graystripe was 
already awake, pacing in front of the nursery. 

“There’s fire in the forest,” Leopardfur told them. “But it 
can’t leap the river.” 

Graystripe blinked at her. “What about ThunderClan?” 

Crookedstar was crossing the clearing. “Is every cat 
safe?” 

“Yes.” Leopardfur hurried to meet him. “There’s a fire, 
but it’s on the other side of the river.” 

“ThunderClan is in danger,” Graystripe mewed. 

“We must—” Crookedstar broke off, coughing as smoke 
billowed around him. 

Graystripe’s pelt was bristling with panic. “We have to 
help them!” 

“You want us to run into a fire?” Loudbelly stared at him 
as another flash of lightning lit the ThunderClan warrior’s 


frightened face. 

“We can’t let them die!” 

As thunder that rolled around the sky, Crookedstar 
recovered himself. “Take a patrol to the river,’ he told 
Leopardfur. “See what you can do.” 

Gratitude glowed in Graystripe’s eyes. 

Leopardfur nodded. She still didn’t trust Graystripe, but 
she could imagine what it felt like to see the Clan you’d been 
born into in crisis. ThunderClan wasn’t their ally, but no 
warrior should be left to die in a fire. “Graystripe, Blackclaw, 
Loudbelly,” she mewed. “Come with me. Mudfur.” She 
nodded to her father. “You come too. There might be injured 
cats. And Heavystep, I want you with us.” 

As the young tom hurried to join the patrol, Leopardfur 
sprinted out of camp. She led them through the darkness 
toward the river and burst out on the bank. 

ThunderClan’s forest was burning. Between the trees, 
Leopardfur could see the orange glow of fire and hear the 
roar of it, like a storm howling toward the river. ThunderClan 
warriors were pacing the shore. Some had already waded in 
and were struggling to cross. 

“Help them,” she ordered. 

Heavystep dived into the river. He grabbed a floundering 
ThunderClan she-cat by the scruff and dragged her back to 
the bank. Blackclaw splashed through the shallows and 
helped a tom from the water. 


Runningwind was struggling toward the shore. 
Leopardfur waded in and put her shoulder beneath his, 
guiding him onto dry land. 

A yowl made her turn. Further upstream, orange fur 
flashed in the water. Fireheart was holding an elder, the 
current sweeping them rapidly downstream. His eyes flashed 
with panic, and he disappeared beneath the surface as the 
elder fought to keep his muzzle above the water. 

A RiverClan kit could swim better! Leopardfur splashed 
through the shallows as they sped toward her and dug her 
paws into the mud. Bracing herself, she reached out and 
grabbed the elder as he swirled past. She turned and 
dropped him near the shore, then turned back to grasp 
Fireheart’s scruff between her teeth. With a growl, she 
hauled the ThunderClan deputy onto the slippery bank, and 
held on until he’d found his paws. 

“Thank you,” he spluttered, pulling free. 

The bedraggled elder coughed up water beside him, but 
Leopardfur was scanning the river for more ThunderClan 
cats. 

“Maybe it’s time ThunderClan learned to swim,” she 
grunted. She couldn’t see any more pelts in the water. “Is 
that every cat?” she asked Fireheart. 

Water was streaming from his whiskers. He took a 
moment to catch his breath, then looked along the RiverClan 
shore where his Clanmates were huddled like frightened 


mice. “I th-think so,” he stammered. 

“What about that one?” A black-and-white shape lay 
unmoving on the far shore. The ferns beyond it were on fire. 

“That’s Patchpelt.” Fireheart was trembling. “He’s dead.” 

Leopardfur pushed out into the river. She wasn’t going 
to leave a warrior’s body to be burned. It deserved a proper 
burial. She crossed the river, dodging the sparks that 
popped and fizzed in the water around her, snatched the 
dead tom from the shore, and paddled back through the 
black water. Lightning arced overhead. Thunder cracked and 
Fireheart flinched, but Leopardfur didn’t stop swimming. 

She hauled Patchpelt’s body onto the shore and laid it at 
Fireheart’s paws. A growl rose in her throat. Graystripe was 
weaving around the ThunderClan deputy like a kit who’d 
just found its mother. Separation had clearly done nothing to 
diminish their friendship. Leopardfur narrowed her eyes but 
said nothing. It would keep. 

She noticed Bluestar lying on the bank a few tail-lengths 
away. The ThunderClan leader wasn’t moving. Had she lost 
a life? Leopardfur padded toward her and sniffed her wet 
pelt. The old she-cat was breathing, but she looked like no 
more than a bundle of fur and bones. 

Rain was beginning to fall, great heavy drops that 
promised a downpour, and wind was blowing the sparks and 
smoke back toward the forest. They would be safe now. 

Leopardfur glanced at Patchpelt’s body. “Come on,” she 


mewed to Fireheart. “We’ll bury him back at camp.” 

He blinked at her, confused. “The RiverClan camp?” 

His words burst forth a new flood of rage in her heart. 
All she could think of was Silverstream, and how he’d 
arrogantly helped to bury her body at Sunningrocks rather 
than give her Clan the chance to mourn and bury her. She 
was better than that. “Unless you’d prefer to return to your 
own.” 

“Thank you.” As he dipped his head, Cinderpelt 
crouched beside Bluestar. 

“She’s swallowed a lot of water,” the ThunderClan 
medicine cat mewed. 

Leopardfur called to Mudfur “Come and check on 
Bluestar.” He’d had more experience with half-drowned cats 
than Cinderpelt. 

As Mudfur hurried off, Fireheart began to move among 
his warriors, checking for injuries and making sure they 
could walk. Leopardfur watched him. He was worried about 
his Clanmates, which was impressive for a kittypet. But he 
still irritated her. She waited as the ThunderClan cats 
gathered themselves. Mudfur helped Bluestar to her paws. 
Graystripe lifted Patchpelt’s body in his jaws. 

“Ready?” Leopardfur nodded to Fireheart. 

“Yes,” Fireheart replied. 

She turned and began to lead the smoke-blackened and 
drenched ThunderClan warriors back to camp. 


The rain was falling heavily as they reached it, pounding 
the river and drenching the dens. Crookedstar was waiting 
for them in the clearing. His eyes were rheumy and his pelt 
was ruffled, and Leopardfur wondered ifhe’d been coughing 
again. He scanned the ThunderClan cats, then looked at her 
anxiously. “Is RiverClan safe?” 

“The fire won’t cross the river,” she told him. He looked 
relieved as she added, “Especially now that the wind has 
changed.” 

Crookedstar blinked expectantly at Bluestar as 
Cinderpelt and Mudfur guided her into the camp. She looked 
at him hazily, but before she could speak, Fireheart stepped 
forward. 

“Leopardfur and her patrol showed great kindness and 
courage in helping us flee the fire,” he mewed to 
Crookedstar. Above him, lightning flickered across the sky 
and thunder rumbled in the distance, rolling away from the 
forest. 

Crookedstar dipped his head. “Leopardfur was right to 
help you. All Clans fear fire.” 

“Our camp was burned and our territory is still on fire,” 
Fireheart went on, blinking away the rain that streamed into 
his eyes. “We have nowhere to go.” 

Was he throwing himself on the mercy of RiverClan? 
Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. At least he was ready to 
admit his Clan’s weakness. 


Crookedstar watched him for a moment, then spoke. 
“You may stay until it’s safe for you to return.” 

Fireheart blinked at him gratefully. “Thank you.” 

Leopardfur glanced at Graystripe as he laid Patchpelt’s 
body at the edge of the clearing. She wondered how he felt, 
surrounded by former Clanmates. Was he pleased to see 
them? What did they think, seeing him in his RiverClan 
home? 

Rain was soaking Patchpelt’s body and Leopardfur felt a 
twinge of pity for the dead warrior. She looked at Fireheart. 
“Would you like us to bury your elder?” 

“You are very generous,” Fireheart answered. “But 
Patchpelt should be buried by his own Clan.” 

Leopardfur bristled. By his own Clan. He’d let Graystripe 
bury Silverstream at Sunningrocks. Didn’t he think she 
would have liked the same respect? “Very well,” she mewed 
sharply. “Pll have his body moved outside camp so that 
your elders may sit vigil with him in peace.” She glanced at 
Bluestar. The ThunderClan leader was huddled on the 
ground and looked pitiful beside Crookedstar. Surely she’d 
coughed up the water by now. “Is Bluestar injured?” she 
asked Fireheart. 

“The smoke was very bad.” There was something careful 
in his tone. “She was among the last to leave the camp.” He 
dipped his head politely. “Excuse me, I must see to my Clan.” 

Leopardfur watched him pad away, her ears twitching. 


Was he trying to hide something? As she wondered what it 
could be, she noticed Graystripe checking on the 
ThunderClan cats. The gray warrior leaned close to each 
one, speaking softly, like a concerned medicine cat. He 
moved among them with an ease that was disconcerting. 
The ThunderClan cats were outsiders here, and yet he 
seemed as relaxed with themas he did with his own kits. She 
shifted her paws uneasily. Would he ever become a true 
RiverClan warrior? 


The next day, the weather cleared. The ThunderClan cats 
still smelled of smoke despite the rain. Leopardfur kept to the 
edges of the camp, observing them with interest. She 
noticed how careful Cinderpelt was to keep the other cats 
away from Bluestar, though she asked for no herbs to treat 
the ThunderClan leader. She also noticed that Graystripe had 
left camp even before she’d assigned the patrols for the day. 
He’d returned with prey for his former Clanmates. He’d even 
taken Fireheart to the nursery to show off Featherkit and 
Stormkit. Should she have stopped him? She wanted to keep 
the taint of ThunderClan from Silverstream’s kits as much as 
she could. 

After sunhigh, Crookedstar beckoned to her from 
outside his den. She hurried to meet him. 

“I think it’s time we spoke to Bluestar,” he mewed. The 
ThunderClan leader was lying in a patch of sunshine beside 
the camp wall. Cinderpelt hadn’t left her side and was 


watching her own Clanmates as warily as RiverClan. 

“If we can get past Cinderpelt,” Leopardfur muttered. 
She followed Crookedstar across the clearing. 

The medicine cat looked up as they reached her. 

“How is Bluestar?” he asked. 

“Recovering,” she mewed. 

Bluestar opened her eyes and sat up, fluffing out her 
pelt. She seemed fine, her sky-blue gaze fixing on him 
“Thank you for taking us in,” she mewed. 

“The fire should be out by now,” he told her. “After so 
much rain.” Was he hinting that it was time ThunderClan 
should leave? 

“PI send a patrol to check,” she mewed. 

Graystripe was heading toward them as Fireheart 
watched from the camp entrance. He dipped his head his 
head to Crookedstar as he neared, but before he could 
speak, Bluestar hurried to meet him. “Graystripe, there you 
are!” She sounded pleased to see him. “Will you take a 
patrol to check the camp?” she mewed. “We should make 
sure it’s safe before we return home.” 

Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. Bluestar was addressing 
him like a Clanmate. Had she forgotten he wasn’t a 
ThunderClan warrior anymore? 

Graystripe’s pelt ruffled uneasily. “Fireheart has already 
suggested it.” He seemed to be searching Bluestar’s gaze. 
Was he wondering if she’d forgotten too? “But I need 


Crookedstar’s permission to go with him.” 

Bluestar frowned, then glanced at Cinderpelt, as though 
for reassurance. 

Cinderpelt blinked at her soothingly. “Fireheart will 
check the camp,” she mewed. 

“May I go with him?” Graystripe asked Crookedstar. 

“Sure.” Crookedstar nodded. 

Leopardfur blinked at him. “Are you sure it’s a good 
idea?” She wasn’t as trusting as Crookedstar. “It might be 
better if he remembers his old home the way it was before 
the fire.” 

But Crookedstar whisked his tail. “If he wants to go, let 
him.” 

As the two friends headed out of camp, Leopardfur 
frowned. They shouldn’t be left alone. What was to stop 
Graystripe telling Fireheart about RiverClan’s patrols and 
defenses? Even if he didn’t mean to, he might let something 
slip while they were chatting. Especially if Fireheart asked 
the right questions. 

She moved to follow them, but then stopped. She was 
needed here—and Fireheart would surely turn her away 
rather than allow the deputy of a rival Clan to see how 
devastated their territory must be now. 

Still she paced, unable to settle, until Graystripe and 
Fireheart returned and reported that the ThunderClan camp 
was safe. They’d buried the few cats who hadn’t made it 


out, and since the rest of their Clanmates were all well 
enough to walk, Bluestar decided it was time to return home. 

As the ThunderClan cats circled impatiently in the 
growing darkness, Bluestar padded toward Crookedstar. 

Leopardfur swallowed back a growl as she saw Fireheart 
lick Graystripe’s shoulder and share a few final words before 
hurrying to take his place beside his leader. 

“Thank you for your kindness and for sharing your 
prey,” Bluestar mewed. 

Crookedstar dipped his head. “We are all warriors at 
heart,” he mewed. He sounded breathless, and Leopardstar 
wondered if the smoke he’d inhaled was still bothering him. 
She should ask Mudfur to take a look. 

Bluestar lifted her tail. “ThunderClan is in your debt.” 

Leopardfur’s ears pricked. She narrowed her eyes. It was 
a debt she would not forget. RiverClan had been generous 
to the Clan that had stolen Sunningrocks and caused the 
deaths of Whiteclaw, Sunfish, Whitefang, and Silverstream. 
And yet she suspected that only she and StarClan truly 
realized how much ThunderClan owed them. One day, 
RiverClan would ask for something in return, and when they 
did, she hoped that ThunderClan would be prepared to 
honor Bluestar’s promise. 





CHAPTER 25 
¥ 


“Deadfoot.” Leopardfur dipped her head to the WindClan 
deputy. The bright moonlight shining into the Fourtrees 
clearing gleamed on his black pelt. The air was cold with the 
first chill of leaf-fall, and, around them, WindClan and 
RiverClan cats mingled, chatting as they waited for 
ThunderClan and ShadowClan to arrive for the Gathering. 

“Leopardfur.” Deadfoot acknowledged her in return with 
a stiffnod. 

“There’s no need to be so formal.” Leopardfur swished 
her tail. Was WindClan still holding a grudge just because a 
few of her warriors had strayed onto their land? She and 
Crookedstar had never been able to figure out which 
warriors had done it, distracted as they were by 
Silverstream’s death and Graystripe’s arrival with the kits. 
“We've repaid the prey that was taken.” 

“Stolen,” Deadfoot corrected. He lifted his chin. “Have 
the warriors who stole it been punished?” 

“There’s no need to punish them,” Leopardfur lied, 
scanning the slopes. Where were ThunderClan and 
ShadowClan? “They won’t do it again.” 

The WindClan deputy was clearly determined to be 
prickly. ShadowClan and ThunderClan hadn’t arrived yet, 
but she wasn’t looking forward to chatting with their 


deputies, either. Suddenly she wished Tigerclaw were here. 
She missed him. She was still troubled by the news that he’d 
been fighting with rogues; when and why had he left 
ThunderClan? 

Crookedstar looked frail on the Great Rock beside 
Tallstar. He hadn’t recovered from breathing smoke from the 
fire and coughed more now than ever. Now he simply looked 
tired, even though the Gathering hadn’t started. As she 
wondered if Bluestar had recovered, the bracken rustled on 
the far slope and ThunderClan streamed into the clearing. 
Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. Fireheart was leading the 
patrol. Had Bluestar died? Her ears twitched nervously. 
What would StarClan think of a kittypet leading 
ThunderClan? Surely, they wouldn’t approve! She sighed. 
When Tigerclaw had spoken to her about needing “new 
ideas” to lead the Clans, surely this was not what he’d 
meant. Had this kittypet’s ambitions played a part in his 
leaving ThunderClan? 

“Excuse me.” Leopardfur nodded politely to Deadfoot 
and crossed the clearing, nosing her way through the crowd. 
She stopped as she reached Cinderpelt. She wanted to speak 
to the ThunderClan medicine cat before the Gathering 
began. “Where’s Blue—” 

Mudfur interrupted. “Don’t worry,’ he mewed. 
“Bluestar’s fine.” 

“She’s stillrecovering fromthe fire,” Cinderpelt told her. 


Leopardfur felt puzzled. “But she wasn’t injured.” She 
had just seemed confused. 

“She breathed a lot of smoke.” Cinderpelt looked at the 
Great Rock. Crookedstar was crouching beside Tallstar, his 
eyes half-closed. “It looks like Crookedstar’s still feeling the 
aftereffects too.” 

Leopardfur’s pet ruffled. Clearly, the ThunderClan 
medicine was gently warning her not to ask any more about 
Bluestar. Was she trying to hide something? 

Leopardfur noticed Fireheart scanning the clearing. Was 
he looking for Graystripe? Leopardfur felt a twinge of 
satisfaction. She had told the former ThunderClan warrior 
not to come tonight. His concern for his former Clanmates in 
the RiverClan camp had worried her. He was still a little too 
close to them for comfort. 

Dark pelts moved though the ferns on the slope behind 
her. ShadowClan. They’d brought more warriors than usual. 
Did that mean they’d finally recovered from the sickness? 
Where was Nightstar? She frowned. There was no sign of 
the ShadowClan leader, and some of the faces among the 
warriors looked unfamiliar. 

Then, suddenly, her eyes landed on a face she 
recognized—but what? How? Her eyes widened as she 
stared at Tigerclaw. What was he doing here, among the 
ShadowClan cats? Was he planning to disrupt the 
Gathering? Interest sparked in her pelt as she watched him 


shoulder his way through the other Clans. He was heading 
toward the Great Rock. 

Something unusual was going on here. Leopardfur 
nodded quickly to Mudfur and Cinderpelt and ducked away 
through the crowd. As she reached the Great Rock, she was 
surprised to see Blackfoot sitting beside Deadfoot. He’d 
been exiled with Brokenstar—what was he doing here? 
Where was Cinderfur? Leopardfur’s ears twitched. And why 
hadn’t Fireheart joined the other deputies? What was going 
on with ShadowClan and ThunderClan? 

Blackfoot nodded to her politely, then turned his gaze 
toward Tigerclaw. Surprise sparked through Leopardfur’s 
pelt as the dark warrior leaped onto the Great Rock. Murmurs 
of shock rippled around the gathered cats as Tigerclaw 
stared down at them. 

“Pm pleased to be here with you at the Gathering this 
night.” He spoke with quiet authority. Leopardfur pricked 
her ears as he went on. “I stand here before you as the new 
leader of ShadowClan. Nightstar died of the sickness that 
took so many of his Clan, and StarClan has named me as his 
successor.” 

ShadowClan’s leader? As Leopardfur stared, Fireheart 
leaped up beside him. 

“Our leader breathed smoke in the fire,’ The 
ThunderClan deputy told the cats below. “She’s not well 
enough yet to travel, but she’ll recover.” 


Leopardfur’s thoughts were spinning. Was this how it 
would be now? Tigerstar leading ShadowClan and Fireheart 
standing in for Bluestar? And Fireheart was dipping his 
head to ShadowClan’s new leader as though he was fine 
with it. She felt a glimmer of excitement mingled with 
trepidation. Was this Tigerstar’s new way to shake up the 
Clans? If so, what was his ultimate goal—and how would it 
affect RiverClan? Crookedstar looked suddenly old beside 
the two young warriors, and Tallstar seemed small. 
Leopardfur shifted her paws, curiosity flickering in her chest. 
Despite her concerns about what all of this meant, one 
thought kept echoing in her mind: What would it feel like to 
be up there too? 


“Crookedstar.” Leopardfur poked her head into the 
RiverClan leader’s den. 

She had hoped to talk to him last night about Tigerstar’s 
reappearance and his leadership of ShadowClan, but he’d 
seemed so worn out by the Gathering that she’d let him walk 
home in companionable silence. This morning, she hoped a 
good night’s sleep would have restored him, but she found 
Mudfur with him. 

Worry sparked in her belly. “Are you okay?” she asked 
Crookedstar as she slid into the den. 

“Just tired,” he answered. He coughed, and Mudfur put 
his ear to the RiverClan leader’s chest. 

“You should rest some more,” Mudfur told him. “PH 


bring you some tansy to chew.” He glanced at Leopardfur. 
“Can you manage the Clan today?” 

“Of course.” She let him guide her from the den. 

“Will he be okay?” she asked, glancing toward the 
trailing moss entrance. 

“Tfhe rests.” Mudfur was frowning. 

“PI make sure he’s not disturbed.” She felt suddenly 
anxious. She knew that one day Crookedstar would lose his 
last life, but was that day soon? Am I ready? She’d been 
observing him closely these past moons, trying to learn all 
she could from him. But there was much more to learn. She 
just hoped StarClan would give Crookedstar time to teach 
her. /fnot, I must be ready. She padded across the clearing as 
Mudfur headed to the medicine den. Whatever happened, 
she must protect her Clan. 

The reed tunnel shivered, and Blackclaw padded into 
camp. His pelt was rippling along his spine as he glanced 
uncertainly over his shoulder. Something was worrying the 
tom. 

“Blackclaw?” As Leopardfur headed to meet him, a dark 
figure padded into camp after him. 

“Tigerstar.” She was surprised that he’d come alone. 

“He was waiting at the border,” Blackclaw explained. “He 
wants to speak with Crookedstar.” 

“Crookedstar’s resting.” She met Tigerstar’s gaze. “I can 
give him your message.” 


Tigerstar tipped his head to one side. “If Crookedstar 
isn’t able to talk, perhaps I can speak to you instead.” His 
gaze flicked to Blackclaw. “Alone.” 

Leopardfur frowned. Could she deal with the powerful 
tabby warrior by herself? Of course she could. She’d talked 
to him plenty of times before. She padded out of camp, 
signaling for himto follow and led him to a quiet spot on the 
riverbank where reeds screened them from the path. “What 
is it?” She lifted her chin. 

He blinked at her calmly. “I just wanted to tell you that 
ShadowClan’s sickness has eased. Runningnose is treating 
the last few cases. We’ve had no new ones for a quarter 
moon.” 

“Tm glad to hear it.” Leopardfur searched his gaze. It 
seemed a long way to come to share news he could have 
shared at the Gathering last night. 

“I also wanted to tell you that ShadowClan will carry on 
being a friend to RiverClan,” Tigerstar went on. “As we have 
for many moons.” 

“If you want to renew our alliance, you must talk to 
Crookedstar,” Leopardfur told him. She was uneasy about 
making a decision like this behind Crookedstar’s back. He 
was still Clan leader. 

Was that a glint of amusement in Tigerstar’s eyes? “I see 
you're still loyal,’ he mewed. “But you will be the one 
making choices for your Clan soon.” 


“Crookedstar still has lives left,’ she mewed quickly, 
though she wasn’t sure how many. She didn’t want the 
other Clans to think RiverClan was weak. 

Tigerstar dipped his head. “Of course,” he mewed. “But 
every leader dies eventually. Which is sad, but how else can 
change happen? New ideas come from young minds.” 

Leopardfur’s tail twitched. She remembered how 
Tigerstar had first talked about bringing fresh energy to the 
Clans. He was a leader now, just as he’d planned. And, 
although she didn’t feel entirely ready, there was something 
beguiling about the thought of standing next to him on the 
Great Rock, leading the Clans, and bringing about real 
change. She wasn’t ready to say good-bye to Crookedstar 
yet, but it warmed her pelt to know that when she did 
become leader, Tigerstar would be there with her. If, together, 
they could challenge the Clans to think differently, it might 
mean RiverClan would never need to go hungry again. 

Tigerstar was watching her. He sat down and swept his 
tail over his forepaws. He looked relaxed, and there was a 
calmness and openness in his expression that put her at her 
ease. He clearly wanted to talk, and she was interested to 
hear what he would say. 

She sat down too. “You’ve spoken of change before,” 
she mewed. “What changes are you imagining you could 
make?” 

“Pm not thinking of changes I could make,” he mewed. 


“Tm thinking of the changes we could make.” She stiffened. 
What did he mean? “We’ve always been of the same mind,” 
he went on. “Other deputies and leaders are stuck in the 
past. But not you. You’ve always had your Clan’s future in 
mind. You have the foresight to realize that RiverClan’s 
future would be far more certain if it didn’t rely so much on 
the river. Why else would you have opposed WindClan’s 
retum?” 

“Exactly.” He understood her. 

“Of course,” he mewed, “I wouldn’t want to make the 
same mistakes Brokenstar made.” His whiskers twitched 
knowingly. 

“Of course not.” Brokenstar had pushed his Clan too 
hard. “If he’d thought further ahead, he’d have been more 
success ful.” 

“Driving WindClan out was rash,” Tigerstar mewed. 

“He underestimated ThunderClan’s arrogance.” 

“And the weakness of his own Clan.” 

“Yes.” She’d missed being able to talk frankly. So much 
of Clan leadership seemed to be about tiptoeing around 
other Clans’ needs. How refreshing to be honest. “A Clan 
must be sure of its own strength before it challenges 
another.” 

“And the strength of its allies.” 

Energy was pulsing through her paws. If only all leaders 
were as open as Tigerstar. “I’m so glad you’re not a rogue,” 


she mewed suddenly. “When you disappeared from 
ThunderClan, I was worried. Bluestar and Fireheart wouldn’t 
tell anyone what had happened to you.” 

Tigerstar bristled. “Fireheart.” He curled his lip. “Don’t 
you mean Rusty? That was his kittypet name.” There was 
rage in his mew. “He's the reason I left ThunderClan. Pm a 
warrior. How could I stay in a Clan that respects a 
kittypet?” 

Leopardfur tilted her head in sympathy. “I’ve often 
wondered how that must have felt.” 

“It was humiliating. And Bluestar treated him as though 
he had warrior blood. She actually trusted him.” 

“Why does Bluestar admire him so much?” Leopardfur 
was genuinely curious. 

Tigerstar scowled. “Fireheart’s no fool,” he mewed. “He 
knows how to exploit other cats. Kittypets are manipulative. 
They’ve learned to use Twolegs. They use other cats too. 
Bluestar can’t see it. She still believes Fireheart has 
ThunderClan’s interests at heart. But he only has his own.” 
He let out a low hiss. “Pd rather be in ShadowClan and risk 
sickness than stay and see my leader undermined by a 
kittypet.” 

Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. “Fireheart knows how to 
act like a warrior,” she mewed. “During the fire he took care 
of his Clanmates when Bluestar couldn’t.” 

“He's always happy to stand in for Bluestar,” Tigerstar 


mewed acidly. 

“But you don’t think he means it?” Leopardfur 
suggested. “Do you think he’s just playing at being a true 
warrior?” 

Tigerstar snarled. “Pm not sure he knows what a true 
warrior is. But yes, I think he’s clever enough to give the 
right impression to satisfy his ambitions.” 

Leopardfur mused on his words. It certainly fit with what 
she’d observed of the orange tom—always making the right 
moves, and yet there was something about himshe couldn’t 
trust. “He’s an impostor,” she said finally. 

Tigerstar leaned closer, his gaze sharpening. “What do 
you mean?” 

“He wants to be honorable but he doesn’t truly 
understand what honor means.” She flicked her tail. “When 
our camp was flooded, he brought us prey.” She paused, 
remembering how desperate RiverClan had been then. How 
humiliating it had been to allow the former kittypet to help. 
“ThunderClan prey. He didn’t seem to realize that, by 
feeding us, he was betraying his Clan. And Graystripe 
helped him.” 

“Graystripe.” Tigerstar's nose wrinkled as though he 
smelled bad fish. “That’s another reason I came to talk to 
you. I wanted to warn you that Graystripe’s only true loyalty 
is to Fireheart.” 

Leopardfur shifted her paws uneasily. 


Tigerstar went on. “He betrayed his Clan by coming to 
RiverClan, but he’d betray RiverClan in a blink if Fireheart 
asked himto.” 

Leopardfur narrowed her eyes. “I can handle 
Graystripe.” 

“Tm sure you could,” Tigerstar conceded. “If he were 
being honest with you. But have you considered that he 
might only have joined RiverClan to act as Fireheart’s spy? 
Giving you ThunderClan prey might have been a way to let 
Graystripe impress Silverstream.” Leopardfur’s ears twitched 
uncomfortably as he went on. “And Silverstream could just 
have been Graystripe’s way into RiverClan. Fireheart might 
have planned it all.” 

Leopardfur’s tail-tip began to flick as she thought his 
over. She’d also wondered about Graystripe’s true intentions 
toward Silverstream—though she’d assumed Bluestar was 
behind the gray warrior’s ruse, not Fireheart. In a way, this 
made more sense. 

“Think about it,” Tigerstar pressed. “Did Graystripe 
really have any feelings for Silverstream?” Leopardfur 
became to feel cold, despite the sun. “If he did, would he 
have buried her at Sunningrocks and stolen her kits without 
telling her own Clan about it?” 

“He told Mistyfoot,” Leopardfur mewed. 

“Not until the next day.” 

The next day? What did he mean? Had ThunderClan 


kept it from them for a whole day? Suddenly, all the grief and 
fury she felt at Silverstream’s death welled in her chest. 
“Was Silverstream dead for a day before ThunderClan told 
us?” she asked Tigerstar. 

He shook his head sadly. “Supposedly, it was Bluestar’s 
decision. But we know who really decided, don’t we?” 

Leopardfur blinked at him. “It was Fireheart?” 

Tigerstar’s eyes darkened. “We can’t let cats like 
Fireheart and Graystripe call the shots. We must keep some 
pride, surely? It’s humiliating to see the Clans being used by 
a kittypet. We are supposed to be warriors.” Tigerstar’s 
words seemed to reach right to Leopardfur’s belly. “We 
could be great,” he went on. “We could make the Clans so 
strong that no warrior ever goes hungry again. We can rise 
above petty battles, above borders, above prey. You can see 
that, can’t you? You can see a day when there’s prey 
enough for everyone. When the river and the moor and the 
forest provide enough for every cat, and no cat has to lift a 
claw against another. But that can’t happen so long as 
Fireheart and Graystripe are using us. Our weakness is their 
strength, and they’ll take advantage of it until we have 
enough pride to take back control. To bring true glory to the 
Clans—to make them what they were always meant to be.” 

Yes! Before Leopardfur could say it, Tigerstar got to his 
paws. “I must go,” he mewed. “I want to visit Tallstar. But it 
was important I spoke to you first. I want you to know that if 


Graystripe and Fireheart give you trouble, you can turn to 
ShadowClan.” He dipped his head respectfully. “RiverClan 
will always have a friend in ShadowClan.” 

She bowed her head in return, grateful. “Thanks.” 

She watched him go, her pelt fizzing. How much should 
she tell Crookedstar? If Graystripe really was a spy, perhaps 
she should watch him without worrying Crookedstar. But he 
needed to hear Tigerstar’s waming—Bluestar and Graystripe 
weren’t to be trusted as long as there were being used by a 
scheming kittypet. She rushed back to camp. 

As she crossed the clearing, Graystripe trotted over from 
beside the fresh-kill pile. His pelt was wet. He must have 
been fishing. 

He stopped in front of her, ears twitching nervously. “I 
heard Tigerstar was here,” he mewed. 

She narrowed her eyes. Was he worried the ShadowClan 
leader had given him away? “That’s between me, Tigerstar, 
and Crookedstar,” she mewed icily. 

“You shouldn’t listen to him,” Graystripe urged. “He 
can’t be trusted.” 

“Really?” Leopardfur flattened her ears. “What about 
you? Can you be trusted?” 

Graystripe seemed to freeze. He stared at her without 
replying. Was that guilt glittering in his eyes? 

Tigerstar must be right. “Yeah,” she growled. “I thought 


not.” Swishing her tail angrily, she padded toward 


Crookedstar’s den. 





CHAPTER 26 
+ 


She wasnt sure if Crookedstar had taken her waming 
seriously. There had been something in his eyes when she’d 
told him how Tigerstar had been driven out of ThunderClan 
by Fireheart’s scheming that made her wonder if he’d 
entirely believed the ShadowClan leader’s story. But he was 
sick. Perhaps it had been too much to take in. He clearly 
didn’t fully understand what had been going on in the other 
Clans, how the balance between them had been shifting, and 
how much Fireheart had been using the situation to advance 
his own ambitions. How else could a kittypet have become a 
Clan deputy? 

“What about the rogues?” Crookedstar had croaked. 

Leopardfur had frowned, puzzled. “The rogues?” 

“Tigerclaw attacked a ThunderClan patrol with a gang of 
rogues,” Crookedstar stopped to catch his breath. “And it 
looks like he took those rogues to ShadowClan with him. 
You must have seen them at the Gathering.” 

“Tigerstar recognizes skill and strength.” The tabby 
warrior had always been realistic about warrior life. He saw 
things how they were, not how he wished they could be. 
“ShadowClan lost warriors to the sickness. Bringing in fresh 
blood would be the quickest way to make the Clan strong 
again.” 


Crookedstar had gazed at her through misty eyes. 
“When have rogues ever made Clans strong?” 

Leopardfur had bristled. “And I suppose kittypets can?” 
she’d mewed sourly. 

“T never said that.” Crookedstar had held her gaze, 
though it seemed a struggle. “It’s true, Fireheart might be 
manipulating Bluestar, but that doesn’t make Tigerclaw’s 
intentions honorable.” 

“Tigerstar,” Leopardfur had reminded him gently. 

“Tigerclaw,” Crookedstar had rasped again. 

Hes confused. Leopardfur had dipped her head. “You 
must be tired,” she’d mewed. “PI let you rest.” 

Now that she thought about it, she knew he must have 
been sicker than she’d imagined. A quarter moon had 
passed with little sign of improvement, and this moming, 
Mudfur had warned her that the RiverClan leader wasn’t 
going to recover. It was just a matter of time. Worse, while 
the medicine cat believed Crookedstar had at least one life 
left, the leader was old enough that Mudfur wondered if the 
illness could claim more than one. Unlikely though that was, 
it would rob RiverClan of its beloved leader and place 
Leopardfur in that position. She didn’t feel ready. RiverClan 
was still mourning Graypool’s tragic death—the last thing 
they needed was to lose their beloved leader, as well. 

She’d kept the Clan busy with patrols, and with 
strengthening the camp wall against leaf-bare floods, and 


RiverClan had gone about its work quietly, aware that 
Crookedstar hadn’t left his den for days and knowing that 
he probably never would. One by one, they’d visited him, 
which had seemed to lift his spirits and theirs. Still, 
Leopardfur had the sense that they were saying their good- 
byes to the RiverClan leader. She only hoped he would 
prove them wrong. 

Now, as the wind swirled the rushes, Leopardfur 
squinted against the sun. It had burst from behind the 
clouds, turning the leaf-fall afternoon golden. Warriors were 
resting around the edge of the clearing. Beetlenose and 
Vixenleap shared a trout in the shade of the sedge wall. 
Featherkit and Stormkit followed the older kits as they nosed 
behind the elders’ den, hunting ants. Mosspelt was keeping 
a close eye on them while Graystripe was out of camp, 
patrolling the WindClan border with Timberfur and 
Ottersplash. 

Mudfur slid through the moss trailing over the entrance 
to Crookedstar’s den. He caught Leopardfur’s eye. 

She tensed, hurrying to meet him. “Is he .. .” She didn’t 
dare say the word. Is he dead? 

“He wants to talk to you,” Mudfur mewed. “You should 
be prepared. I’m afraid he’s already lost at least one life to 
this sickness.” 

Leopardfur’s head spun. This is really happening, then. 
Beyond feeling unprepared to be leader, she wasn’t ready to 


lose her friend and mentor. She never would be. She ducked 
into the leader’s den, forcing her pelt to smooth though 
anxiety was sparking through it. 

“Hey,” she mewed softly as Crookedstar lifted his head 
and blinked at her through the gloom. He seemed smaller 
than ever, worn away by the cough that hadn’t left him since 
the ThunderClan fire. He was wheezing now, and his eyes 
were cloudy, but they seemed to brighten a little as he saw 
her. 

“Leopardfur” He gave a purr, but it stumbled into a 
cough, and she sat beside him and waited for it to subside. 
He recovered himself and went on. “Are you ready?” 

“Ready?” She blinked at him, wishing she didn’t know 
what he meant. 

“Ready to lead the Clan.” 

No. She shifted her paws. “I don’t know if Pll ever be 
ready.” The closer she came to leadership, the more she felt 
unequal to the responsibility. 

“I know you believe it’s your destiny,” he mewed. “It 
might well be, but that doesn’t mean it will come naturally. 
You will have to work hard every day to be the leader 
RiverClan needs.” He hesitated, catching his breath. “The 
leader RiverClan deserves.” 

She dipped her head. “I will do my best,” she mewed. “I 
will never stop trying.” 

His eyes flashed suddenly, affectionate and playful. “TI 


be watching you,” he mewed. “From StarClan.” 

“Pm glad.” She purred softly. “It means a lot to me to 
have your support. Pll try to make you proud.” 

“Pve had a good life,” he mewed. “And I’m happy to be 
joining my Clanmates.” His eyes clouded with emotion. “I 
want to see Willowbreeze again. And Silverstream.” 

She blinked at him, her heart aching at the memory of the 
rebellious gray she-cat. “Tell her I’m sorry.” 

“Sorry?” 

“I should have done more to help her.” 

Crookedstar gazed at her for a moment. “T’m sure you did 
everything you could to protect her,” he mewed. “I know 
you will always protect RiverClan. More than anything else, 
you have the Clan’s well-being at heart. But be fair,” he 
mewed. “Be merciful. And don’t let the other Clans push 
them around.” 

“Of course.” Leopardfur looked fondly at her leader. She 
wished he could stay and tell her more, but he was looking 
wearier that she’d ever seen him. It was time to let him go. 
“Rest now.” She touched his head with her nose. 

He began to cough, spluttering to begin with, then 
convulsing as the coughing seemed to grip him and shake 
him like a fox shaking prey. 

Mudfur darted into the den and nosed past her. He 
began to soothe Crookedstar, running his paws along the 
old tom’s chest, stroking him gently until the coughing gave 


way to long rattling breaths and Crookedstar relaxed into his 
nest, his eyes closed. 

“Let’s give him a moment,” Mudfur whispered. He 
nudged Leopardfur gently fromthe den. 

Outside, Leopardfur drew in a long, deep breath. The 
fresh air made her realize how stuffy it had been inside the 
den. 

Mudfur was watching her, his gaze solemn. “You know 
better than anyone how hard it is to lose a cat you care 
about,” he mewed. 

She blinked at him, surprised by the softness of his mew. 
“You're a medicine cat—you’ve lost cats too,” she reminded 
him. 

“Yes.” He held her gaze. “And with each loss, I feel a 
little weaker, as though they’ve taken something with them. 
But your losses seemto make you stronger.” 

“Do they?” She didn’t feel strong right now. 

“They make you more certain about your destiny,” he 
mewed. “Crookedstar’s death will bring you closer to that.” 

The words made her anxious. “Am I ready?” she asked 
him. 

“You’re the only one who knows that.” 

“But you thought I wasn’t ready to become deputy,” she 
pressed. “Do you think I’m ready to be leader?” 

“Pm not sure any cat is truly ready to be leader,” he told 
her gently. “It might be better that way. If they come to 


leadership too sure of themselves, they are more likely to 
make mistakes.” 

“Really?” His words soothed her. Could it be good that 
she felt so unprepared for this responsibility? 

He touched his muzzle to her cheek. “I’m proud of you, 
Leopardfur,” he mewed. “I always have been. I’m privileged 
in a way most medicine cats aren’t: I am a father, and I’ve 
lived a full life. I loved being a warrior. But, after your mother 
died, I lost my appetite for battle. I know Clans must fight 
sometimes. They will always have something worth 
protecting.” He looked at her, his eyes glistening with hope. 
“But I still hope that one day they will find a peaceful way to 
live.” He didn’t give her a chance to speak, but ducked back 
into Crookedstar’s den. 

She gazed after him. He’d been trying to tell her to keep 
RiverClan from war. Her heart ached for him. Did he really 
believe that was possible? 

“Leopardfur.” He called to her through the moss, his 
mew tight. Had Crookedstar died? 

She hurried into the den. “Is he okay?” 

Relief swamped her as she saw Crookedstar breathing in 
his nest. But he lay awkwardly, as though struggling for 
every breath. 

“Tt won’t be long now,” Mudfur whispered. He stepped 
back, leaving space beside Crookedstar’s nest. 

Leopardfur slid into it and leaned close to the RiverClan 


leader. Her heart was beating quickly as grief tightened 
around it. 

Crookedstar seemed to sense her presence. Perhaps he’d 
felt her breath on his cheek. He opened his eyes. “I have to 
go,” he murmured huskily, struggling to lift his head. “But 
remember, RiverClan is only part of the Clans, and the Clans 
are only part of the forest. Fresh dangers face us all, brought 
by every season, every change in the weather. The Clans 
must defend themselves, but they must defend each other 
too. When we’re faced with flood or fire, all we have is each 
other.” 

He fell back and her heart lurched. “Crookedstar,” she 
mewed. “T’ll take care of RiverClan. I promise I” 

He spoke again. “Some cats don’t understand that we 
must share the forest. Some cats think it only exists for them 
and no other creature matters. Watch out for those cats.” He 
fought for breath. “Watch out for Tigerclaw and .. .” 

His mew trailed away. She frowned. He was still calling 
the ShadowClan leader Tigerclaw. He doesnt know what 
hes saying. She rested a paw on his flank. Be at peace now. 

But he went on, barely finding the breath. “Cats like him 
will do anything to gain power over others. Don’t be that 
kind of leader. Don’t make those kinds of choices.” 

She felt a prickle of disappointment. Did he really think 
Tigerstar was like that? That she could be like that? If only 
Crookedstar had spoken to Tigerstar before he’d become ill; 





if only he’d known him better. Tigerstar only wanted the 
Clans to be stronger. “I will always protect RiverClan,” she 
mewed, leaning closer. “I will give my life if I have to.” 

Crookedstar blinked at her, then closed his eyes. 
“Perhaps Mudfur was right,” he breathed. “Perhaps death 
isn’t—” 

He stopped fighting for breath, and she felt his flank 
grow still beneath her paw. Her throat tightened. “He’s 
gone.” She moved away, letting Mudfur run his tail over the 
RiverClan leader’s pelt and sniffhis muzzle. 

“Yes,” Mudfur told her softly. “He’s with StarClan now.” 

Leopardfur closed her eyes for a moment. She felt as 
though she’d reached the edge of a cliff and the river was 
churning far below. J can do this. She bunched energy into 
her muscles, as though preparing to leap, then pushed her 
way out of the den. 

Mosspelt looked up from the nursery. Beetlenose sat up 
beside Vixenleap. As though reading her gaze, her Clanmates 
began getting to their paws, exchanging anxious glances. 

Leopardfur announced that it was time for a Clan 
meeting. Her Clanmates watched her with concem and 
curiosity as she padded to the center of the clearing and 
looked at them. “Crookedstar is with StarClan,” she mewed. 
This was the first time she’d addressed them as leader. 
Though her heart was aching, her mind felt as clear as spring 
water. “He was a great leader, and we were lucky to know 


such a warrior. I hope I can live up to his example. He left big 
paw steps, but I will do my best to fill them.” She looked 
slowly around. Beetlenose’s eyes were glistening. 
Heavystep and Shadepelt were watching with round, 
anxious eyes. As Loudbelly glanced sadly toward 
Crookedstar’s den, Leopardfur’s chest tightened. She 
wanted to ease her Clanmates’ grief. She wanted to reassure 
them. “Before he died, Crookedstar told me that we are only 
a part of the forest. That each season brings fresh danger. 
He said that when there’s flood or fire, all we have is each 
other.” He’d been talking about the other Clans, but that 
wasn’t what their Clan needed to hear now. Death had made 
him sentimental. The other Clans weren’t their responsibility. 
Taking care of RiverClan was hard enough without taking 
care of the other Clans too. A dying leader could make such 
a generous promise, but how could a living leader ever 
achieve it? 

Her Clanmates were looking at her hopefully. They 
wanted to know that RiverClan would be safe and that 
nothing would change even though Crookedstar was gone. 
She dipped her head respectfully. “Crookedstar was right. 
We must take care of each other. I will make sure of that. I 
promise you that, whatever happens, I will protect you.” She 
lifted her muzzle. “I will keep you safe.” 





CHAPTER 27 
¥ 


“Mudfur?” Leopardfur whispered through the darkness. 
Her mew echoed around the walls of the cave. “When do I 
touch the Moonstone?” 

“Soon.” Mudfur’s paws brushed the stone. She could 
just make him out in the starlight filtering through a hole in 
the high roof. He was staring up at it expectantly, his pelt 
fluffed out against the chill of the cavern. 

She shifted her paws, the stone like ice beneath them. 
Which StarClan cats would grant her nine lives? Her belly 
tightened. There were so many cats she longed to see again, 
and some she dreaded. Would Whitefang be there? She was 
glad Mudfur had made the long joumey with her across the 
moor to Highstones. “How long does the ceremony take?” 

As she blinked at him, moonlight sliced through the 
darkness. It touched the Moonstone, and it lit up like 
sunlight sparkling on water, shimmering on countless 
ripples. 

Leopardfur narrowed her eyes, flinching away. “It’s so 
bright.” 

“Go on.” Mudfur nudged her gently forward. 

Nervously, she crossed the stone floor, the cold air 
reaching deep into her pelt, and stopped beside the brilliant 
Moonstone. Closing her eyes, she leaned forward and 


touched her nose to the rock. The ground seemed to drop 
away. Her heart lurched as moonlight swirled around her. For 
a moment she felt she was falling, and then there was soft 
grass beneath her paws. She opened her eyes to find herself 
in a dark hollow. She looked up and saw stars spinning in 
the black sky. Her breath caught as their silvery light swirled 
around her. She smelled the river and the moor and the forest 
—the scents of all the Clans were mingled here—and 
suddenly the slopes glittered with starry pelts. Eyes blazed 
and pelts sparkled as countless faces stared down at her. 

Overwhelmed, Leopardfur fought the urge to crouch 
against the earth. Was all of StarClan here? 

A huge, long-furred gray tom padded forward and 
dipped his head as he reached her. “Welcome to StarClan.” 
His mew seemed to rumble deep beneath his thick, silver fur. 
“Tam Riverstar.” 

Leopardfur blinked at him, lost for words. The first leader 
of RiverClan had come to her ceremony. She bowed her head 
stiffly, wondering if it was the right way to greet the ancient 
tom. 

“You will bring strength to RiverClan at a time when they 
need it.” He padded closer. “With this life, I give you 
acceptance.” 

“Acceptance?” Leopardfur’s pelt rippled with surprise. 
Surely, acceptance was for the weak, for warriors who had 
no other choice. 


Riverstar’s eyes gleamed. Was that amusement in them? 
“You will need it.” He reached out and touched his nose to 
her head. Agony blazed beneath her pelt as the new life 
rushed through her. She tried to flinch away, but her paws 
seemed to be rooted to the earth. Water glittered around her; 
fish flashed at the edge of her vision; wind roared through 
trees she couldn’t see. 

She gasped as he stepped away, feeling as weak as a 
newborn kit. If this was what it was to receive a life, she 
didn’t know if she could bear eight more. She trembled as 
Riverstar padded away and disappeared among the starry 
pelts. 

Another cat stepped forward. 

“Whiteclaw.” Her heart leaped. She wanted to race to 
greet him. And to apologize. “I’m sorry.” Grief long faded 
became sharp once more. “I trained you to be too much like 
me.” 

He blinked at her, his eyes sparkling with starlight. “You 
trained me to be a loyal RiverClan warrior,” he mewed. “It’s 
all I ever wanted to be.” He leaned forward. “With this life, I 
give you empathy, because you always understood me.” As 
he touched his nose to her head, the sadness that had 
gripped her heart seemed to melt. There was no pain this 
time. Warmth flowed through her, soft as leaf-fall sunshine. 
As he stepped away, she opened her eyes and blinked, 
wishing he could stay. “Whiteclaw.” She had so much to tell 


him, but he turned and slid back among his Clanmates. 

Another cat had taken his place. Leopardfur recognized 
him at once. “Hailstar.” She dipped her head quickly. “Pm 
honored.” 

“You fought fearlessly against those rats,” he mewed. 
“You have always had the courage and determination to be 
one of RiverClan’s greatest leaders.” 

She glanced at her paws self-consciously. He’d 
remembered her courage. 

“With this life, I give you bravery.” He touched his nose 
to her head, and, once more, agony pierced her and she had 
to grit her teeth to stop herself crying out. Hailstar’s 
memories flashed around her like claws—pelts twisting; 
teeth snapping; enemies shrieking She pressed back terror 
as the scent of blood filled her nose. Then it faded and she 
opened her eyes. 

Hailstar was watching her. As she caught her breath, he 
spoke again. “Protect your Clan with your life.” 

As he padded away, another cat stopped in front of her. 
Her heart ached as she recognized Frogleap. She could only 
stare at him wordlessly and he purred, his starlit eyes filled 
with affection. “With this life, I give you devotion,” he 
whispered. “Because you are devoted to your Clan.” Then 
he touched her head and she felt water press around her, 
crushing her until she could barely breathe. She fought, 
trying to break free. But the water was too heavy. There was 


no escape. She stopped struggling, and as she did, the water 
eased its grip and she felt its embrace like a mother’s, 
wrapping her in love. 

Leopardfur staggered to keep on her paws as the vision 
faded. She wondered whether it always hurt this much for a 
leader to receive their lives—was it supposed to hurt this 
much? She blinked at Frogleap. “Are Woodkit and Robinkit 
with you?” 

His eyes shone brighter. “Yes.” 

“Pmsorry I couldn’t save them.” 

“They are loved here too.” He turned away and another 
cat took his place. 

“Oakheart.” She greeted the RiverClan deputy with a 
polite nod. 

“You have grown,” he mewed approvingly. “And learned 
much from Crookedstar.” 

“Is he here yet?” she asked him. Would she see him? 

“He's resting,” Oakheart told her. “He's earned it.” He 
touched her head with his nose. “With this life, I give you 
unity, so that RiverClan may never be divided.” She cringed, 
but as his breath billowed around her ears, she felt only 
determination hardening in her belly like amber, growing 
warm and golden inside her as though sunshine drenched it. 
Thats more like it. 

She managed a nod as he padded away and another cat 
stepped from the ranks of StarClan warriors. Leopardfur 


blinked at her. Silverstream was padding toward her. 

“Pm sorry,” Leopardfur blurted. “I should have given 
you the help you needed, not the help I thought you should 
have.” 

Silverstream’s blue eyes were filled with pity. She 
stopped in front of Leopardfur and gazed at her. “With this 
life, I give you forgiveness,” she mewed, then touched her 
nose to Leopardfur’s head. Guilt seared like flames through 
Leopardfur until she was breathless with the pain; then it 
disappeared, quenched by a sense of peace and kindness 
that felt like the soft brush of a tail on her cheek. Tranquility 
enfolded her as Silverstream stepped away. 

Leopardfur called after her. “Stormkit and Featherkit are 
safe and happy in RiverClan.” 

Silverstream glanced back at her. “I know,” she mewed. 
“Thank you for bringing them home.” 

White fur, brilliant with starlight, dazzled Leopardfur for a 
moment until she realized that Whitefang was standing 
before her. Her heart soared as she recognized her mentor’s 
familiar scent. 

“Pm proud of you,” he mewed. His eyes shone, and she 
purred, not knowing what to say. 

He purred back. “It’s not like you to be lost for words.” 
Leaning forward, he went on. “With this life, I give you 
patience.” 

She purred again as she felt the touch of his muzzle. 


What patience had she ever shown? She pictured herself 
pestering him to teach her battle moves when she was a kit. 
And then she felt the hurry and rush of Clan life moving 
around her so fast that the pelts and faces of her Clanmates 
seemed to blur and become no more than the wind whisking 
leaves around the clearing while she stood, still and silent, at 
the center. 

When she opened her eyes, Whitefang was gone. A 
pang of grief pierced her heart. Then she heard a gentle mew. 
“Leopardfur.” Sunfish’s gaze sparkled in front of her. 

Leopardfur wanted to press her muzzle against her 
friend’s cheek. But she didn’t dare. “Are you happy here?” 
she asked. 

Sunfish blinked at her calmly. “We are all happy here,” 
she mewed. 

Leopardfur felt as though a stone had dropped from her 
heart. She purred as Sunfish leaned close. 

“With this life, I give you friendship.” At the touch of 
her nose, Leopardfur felt herself skimming the shoreline, her 
paws hardly touching the earth, then diving through the 
water, moving with the current like a fish, while above her, 
sunshine glittered on the surface. She felt happier than she 
had since she was a kit, and blinked opened her eyes for one 
last look at her friend. 

But Sunfish was gone, and a white-and-ginger she-cat 
stood in her place. Leopardfur’s nose twitched. Her scent 


seemed familiar, but she couldn’t remember having met this 
cat. 

“Tm Brightsky,” the she-cat mewed. 

Leopardfur’s tail quivered with happiness. It was her 
mother. She blinked at her. “Mudfur missed you so much.” 
She dropped her gaze, a prick of sadness in her chest. “So 
did I.” 

“T know.” The she-cat’s mew was husky. “I wish I could 
have raised you. But I’ve loved you even though I couldn't 
be with you.” She reached toward Leopardfur’s head with 
her muzzle. “With this, your ninth life, I give you love,” she 
mewed. “The love a mother gives her kits.” 

Leopardfur froze as pain impaled her heart, hardening it 
until she felt no fear. The strength and ferocity of it took her 
by surprise. There was no gentleness in it. Was this what a 
mother’s love was like? 

Brightsky drew away and blinked at her “Your 
Clanmates are your kits now,” she mewed. “Their safety 
depends on your strength. You must fight for them without 
fear or pity.” 

“I will” Leopardstar met her gaze. “I promise. I will 
protect themas though they are my own.” 


She and Mudfur arrived back at camp a little before 
dawn. 

“Get some sleep,” Mudfur told her, flicking his tail 
toward Crookedstar’s den. It was her den now. But she 


didn’t feel ready to sleep. She wanted to begin the day. She 
had many plans for RiverClan. There was much to do. 

Mudfur nudged her away. “Just a nap,” he mewed. “It’s 
the Gathering tonight. You’ll need your rest.” 

She settled into the leader’s den, but she wasn’t sure if 
she slept or not. Thoughts filled her mind, whirling so fast 
that they might have blurred into sleep. She wasn’t sure. But 
her eyes were open when dawn sunshine reached through 
the trailing moss that covered the entrance of the den. She’d 
come to a decision. RiverClan had become too dependent on 
the river since they’d lost Sunningrocks to ThunderClan. 
The flood had given her stark proof of that. If they were to 
make it through leaf-bare, they would need more land. 
Crookedstar was dead; there was no one to object. It was 
time to take Sunningrocks back. 

She climbed out of her nest and stretched. Though the 
den was freshly woven, Crookedstar’s scent still lingered. 
She’d hoped he would be there to give her one of her lives 
at the Moonstone ceremony. But perhaps he’d given her all 
she needed while he was alive. 

She nosed her way out of the den and surveyed the 
camp. Piketooth was stretching stiffly beside the camp wall. 
Timberfur was nosing through stale prey left on the fresh-kill 
pile, and Cedarpelt was soaking up the early moming 
sunshine nearby. Leopardstar narrowed her eyes. The 
graying toms seemed to sleep less and move slower now, 


and she realized how old they’d become. 

Stonefur padded from the warriors’ den. His blue-gray 
fur glowed in the early-morning light. He nodded to her, 
picked a stiff perch from the fresh-kill pile, and carried it to 
the nursery. 

Leopardstar watched him as the rest of the Clan stirred 
and her Clanmates drifted from their dens. Ottersplash 
nodded a greeting. Blackclaw and Reedtail blinked at her. 
Graystripe headed for the nursery. The Clan knew she’d 
gone to receive her nine lives, and they seemed a little wary 
of her, perhaps because she still carried the scent of 
StarClan. 

Stonefur moved among them, stopping to talk to one 
warrior, then another, calling into the apprentices’ den to 
make sure Dawnpaw was awake before Heavystep came 
looking for her, stopping by the nursery a second time to 
take away the fish bones. Leopardstar had noticed the 
warrior’s concem for his Clanmates before, and she was in 
no doubt about his skill and courage. 

“Let all cats old enough to swim gather to hear my 
words.” She felt a quiver of excitement as she said the words 
she had heard Crookedstar speak so often. This was her 
Clan now, and she had much to share with them. She 
couldn’t wait to get started. As they gathered around her, 
she swished her tail, relishing the respect she saw in their 
eyes as they waited for her to speak. 


“I received my nine lives last night,” she mewed. “I am 
Leopardstar now.” 

“Leopardstar!” Blackclaw was the first to call her name, 
and the others joined in, their eyes shining. 

“Leopardstar!” 

“Leopardstar!” 

She swallowed back a purr. “I have decided who my 
deputy will be.” The cheers died away as she looked around 
the Clan. Reedtail shifted his paws. Loudbelly pricked his 
ears. 

Her gaze rested on Stonefur. He looked at her, a question 
in his eyes. 

“Stonefur has shown his courage and loyalty time and 
time again. I believe he will make a fine deputy for 
RiverClan.” 

“Stonefur!” Mistyfoot hurried to her littermate’s side and 
pressed her muzzle to his cheek as her Clanmates echoed her 
cheer. 

“Stonefur!” 

Leopardstar blinked happily. They seemed to be pleased 
with her choice. She lifted her voice over her Clanmates’ and 
spoke again. “The Gathering is tonight. Wleclaw, Blackclaw, 
and Beetlenose will join me and Stonefur, along with 
Mistyfoot and Mallowtail.” She glanced at Dawnpaw, who 
was sitting proudly beside her mentor, Heavystep. She’d 
been the first kit in the nursery to be given her apprentice 


name, but it wouldn’t be long before Primrosekit, Pikekit, and 
Reedkit joined her in the apprentices’ den. “Heavystep.” She 
dipped her head to the thickset brown tabby tom. “I want 
you to come too, and bring Dawnpaw. She will learn a lot 
from her first Gathering.” 

Dawnpaw’s pelt bristled with excitement, and she 
fidgeted beside Heavystep as Leopardstar turned her gaze 
toward Piketooth. She dipped her head to the old warrior. “I 
think it’s time you moved to the elders’ den.” She looked at 
Timberfur and Cedarpelt. “You too,” she mewed. “You have 
earned your rest. Let others hunt for you. We all feel 
Graypool’s loss, and an elders’ den should not stay empty 
long. It brings warmth and wisdom to a Clan.” 

Timberfur purred. “And it gives the ‘paws something to 
clean out.” 

Cedarpelt glanced at Dawnpaw. “You'll be so busy 
pulling out our ticks, you won’t have time for training.” 

“Don’t worry,” Leopardstar reassured Dawnpaw as the 
young apprentice’s eyes widened with worry. “You'll have 
denmates soon enough.” 

Piketooth arched his back and stretched. “I suppose I 
could stand a little rest. And if I’m a wizened elder, that 
means you’ll always listen to me, won’t you?” 

Leopardstar’s whiskers twitched with amusement. “PI 
certainly take your advice into consideration. That goes for 
all three of you. Thank you.” 


The meeting was at an end. She nodded to Stonefur. “Pd 
like to speak to you before you organize the day’s patrols.” 

“Sure.” He crossed the clearing as his Clanmates went 
back to washing and stretching and gossiping in the 
clearing. He dipped his head as he reached her. “I’m honored 
to be your deputy,” he mewed. “Thank you for your faith in 

“Tm lucky to have a warrior like you at my side.” She 
watched the Clan for a moment. “RiverClan needs to be 
stronger. I want extra border patrols, morning and evening. 
And I'm going to oversee apprentice training myself, 
although you should keep a close eye on it too. Dawnpaw 
and the kits must become some of the finest warriors 
RiverClan has ever trained. ShadowClan has a new leader, 
ThunderClan will always want more than they need, and 
WindClan is starting to flex its claws. We need to be ready to 
protect our land and our Clanmates.” 

Stonefur dipped his head. “I agree,” he mewed. “I never 
want to see a Clanmate go hungry again.” 

Leopardstar blinked at him approvingly. She’d made the 
right choice. But was he ready for RiverClan to fight? “Pve 
decided that the only way to keep our Clan fed is to expand 
our territory.” She eyed him, trying to read his reaction. His 
gaze sharp with interest. “I plan to take Sunningrocks back,” 
she told him. 

“How soon?” 


“As soon as we can be ready.” 

“Okay.” 

She felt her shoulders loosen. He was going to support 
her. “Graystripe must know nothing about it,” she mewed. 

He frowned. “Don’t you trust him?” 

“Do you?” 

He hesitated. “I want to trust him, but he still seems very 
friendly with Fireheart. Perhaps we should take him to the 
Gathering tonight. It could give hima chance to prove his 
loyalty.” 

Leopardstar narrowed her eyes. She didn’t want 
Graystripe anywhere near ThunderClan warriors, but 
Stonefur had a point. At the Gathering, they could see just 
how close to his former denmates the tom was. “Okay,” she 
mewed. “Tell him to join the patrol.” 


Leopardstar led the patrol to the Gathering late on 
purpose. She didn’t want the Clans to have long to 
speculate about Crookedstar’s death before she made the 
announcement herself. She was RiverClan’s leader now; that 
was all they needed to know. 

The clearing was crowded. ShadowClan, ThunderClan, 
and WindClan had already arrived. Bluestar was sitting on 
top of the Great Rock, gazing across the Fourtrees hollow, 
her blue-gray pelt glowing in the bright moonlight. 

“Remember,” she told Stonefur as they reached the 
bottom of the slope. “Get as much information as you can 


from the other deputies and give as little as possible in 
retum.” 

Stonefurnodded and headed away. The rest ofthe patrol 
was already weaving among the crowd. Leopardstar noticed 
Graystripe nosing his way straight toward Fireheart. He 
didn’t seem interested in staying with his own Clanmates. 
Leopardstar narrowed her eyes in his direction, thinking that 
it didn’t take very long to show which Clan had his loyalty. 

But there wasn’t time to worry about that now. She 
would be addressing the Clans for the first time tonight. She 
took a deep breath. You have a voice, she told herself. Use 
it. Lifting her tail, she shouldered her way through the 
gathered cats. 

Tigerstar and Tallstar stood at the foot ofthe Great Rock. 
They didn’t look surprised to see her join them. 

“Leopardstar.” Tigerstar dipped his head respectfully. 
“Congratulations.” 

Tallstar must have told him she’d received her nine lives. 
She and Mudfur had run into a WindClan patrol as they’d 
crossed the moor to Highstones last night, and she’d had to 
explain to them that Crookedstar was dead and she was on 
her way to the Moonstone. 

“Pmsorry for your loss,” Tallstar mewed. 

“Crookedstar died a peaceful death, in his nest.” She 
nodded to them politely in turn. 

“Pm glad he didn’t suffer,” Tallstar mewed. 


Tigerstar’s eyes glittered. “So you’re leader now? Who’s 
your deputy?” 

“Stonefur.” She scanned the crowd. Was the gray tom 
sharing news with the other deputies yet? 

“An interesting choice.” There was a sharpness in 
Tigerstar’s mew. It made Leopardstar stiffen. What did he 
find so interesting? She was irritated by her own curiosity. 
Why should she care? Tigerstar’s opinion on RiverClan 
business wasn’t important. 

She leaped onto the rock and nodded a greeting to 
Bluestar. The ThunderClan leader looked her blankly for a 
moment, then dipped her head in return as Tigerstar and 
Tallstar jumped up beside them. 

Below, the assembled cats were turning their gaze toward 
the Great Rock. 

Tigerstar nodded Leopardstar forward. “You have the 
most pressing news,” he mewed. 

His tone was respectful, and she pressed back a shiver 
of excitement. “Thank you.” 

This was what she’d wanted. To share the Great Rock 
with a warrior like Tigerstar. She padded to the edge and 
looked down at the crowd. Seeing so many faces looking 
back at her made her heart pound. She forced her pelt not to 
prickle. “Our leader Crookedstar has joined StarClan,” she 
told them. “He was a noble leader, and all his Clan mourns 
his passing. I am leader of RiverClan now, and Stonefur is 


my deputy. Last night, I traveled to Highstones to receive 
my nine lives from StarClan.” 

Tallstar swished his tail. “Crookedstar will be missed by 
all the Clans. But may StarClan grant that RiverClan thrives 
under your leadership.” 

Leopardstar waited for Bluestar to speak. Surely the 
ThunderClan leader would offer her congratulations too? 
But Bluestar was gazing down into the hollow. What was so 
interesting down there? Leopardstar cleared her throat, but 
Bluestar still didn’t lift her gaze. Is she ignoring me? 
Indignation flared beneath her pelt. She stared at the 
ThunderClan leader. It seemed as though Bluestar hadn’t 
even realized she was leader now. The old cat’s gaze was still 
fixed on the crowd. What could be distracting her? Older 
cats could be hard of hearing. Perhaps she hadn’t heard 
Leopardstar address the Gathering. “Bluestar?” she called to 
her softly. 

Bluestar looked at her. She seemed confused for a 
moment. Then her focus returned. Leopardfur felt a flash of 
surprise as anger flared in the ThunderClan leader's 
shimmering blue eyes. Bluestar pushed past Tallstar, 
knocking him aside as she marched to the front of the Great 
Rock. Leopardstar hopped quickly out of the way as 
Bluestar turned her gaze on the gathered cats. “I will speak 
next,” she growled, glancing ferociously at Tallstar. 

“Cats of the Clans.” Her mew was cold and angry. “I 


bring news of theft. WindClan warriors have been hunting in 
ThunderClan territory!” 

Angry yowling erupted across the hollow. Leopardstar 
stepped back, her pelt bristling with alarm as WindClan 
warriors sprang to their paws, furiously denying Bluestar’s 
accusation. 

“Prove it!” Onewhisker yowled at Bluestar. “Prove that 
WindClan has taken so much as a mouse!” 

“Thave proof!” Bluestar’s eyes blazed. 

Tallstar’s hackles lifted, but Bluestar seemed fearless, 
fired with such rage that Leopardstar wondered if a fight 
would break out on the Great Rock. She glanced at Tigerstar. 
He was sitting at the back ofthe rock, his pelt utterly smooth 
as he watched Bluestar and Tallstar hurl accusations at each 
other. 

“All this is a pile of mouse dung,” Tallstar snarled. 
“WindClan has lost prey as well. We have found rabbit 
remains on our territory too. I accuse you, Bluestar, of letting 
your warriors hunt on our land and making false accusations 
to cover up the theft!” 

As Tallstar puffed out his black-and-white pelt, Tigerstar 
caught Leopardstar’s eye. His whiskers twitched with 
amusement. Did he find the fight funny? Then he padded 
forward and spoke. 

“That seems fair,” he told Tallstar calmly. “Every cat 
knows that prey has been scarce on ThunderClan territory 


since the fire. Your Clan is hungry, Bluestar, and some of 
your warriors”-—he paused, his gaze flitting down toward 
Grays tripe—‘know WindClan territory very well.” 

His words made Bluestar incandescent with fury. She 
tumed on him. “Silence!” she hissed. “Stay away from me 
and my Clan. This is no business of yours!” 

“It's the business of every cat in the forest,” Tigerstar 
replied calmly. “The Gathering is supposed to be a time of 
peace. If StarClan is angered, we will all suffer.” 

“StarClan!” Bluestar was spitting now. “StarClan has 
turned away from us, and I will fight them if I have to. I care 
only for feeding my Clan—” 

Leopardstar stared at the ThunderClan leader. Fight with 
StarClan? What was wrong with her? How could any Clan 
leader think StarClan had tumed away from them? She 
narrowed her eyes. Bluestar clearly wasn’t herself. And 
Tigerstar seemed to be enjoying her outburst. 

She waited quietly while Bluestar and Tallstar threatened 
each other, wondering why StarClan hadn’t sent clouds to 
cover the moon. Were their ancestors enjoying the fight 
too? Tigerstar was looking pleased with himself, as though 
his intervention had gone exactly as he’d planned. Had he 
baited Bluestar on purpose? 

He seemed to have planted a spark of mischief in 
Leopardstar: Suddenly she wondered what would happen if 
she baited the ThunderClan leader too. Would Bluestar 


explode into rage again? Perhaps now was the moment to 
announce her plans for RiverClan. 

She slid between Tigerstar and Tallstar. The Clans were 
shifting agitatedly below her like a shoal of nervous fish. 

“The fire was a terrible misfortune,” she called down to 
them. “Every cat in the forest knows that, but yours is not 
the only Clan to have suffered recently.” She glanced at 
Bluestar. “Your forest will grow back as rich in prey as it ever 
was. But Twolegs have invaded our territory and show no 
signs of leaving. Last leaf-bare, the river was poisoned and 
cats who ate the fish fell ill. Who can guarantee that it won't 
happen again? RiverClan needs better hunting grounds 
even more than ThunderClan.” She knew that every cat in 
the clearing would have understood the veiled threat in her 
words. The easiest way for RiverClan was to expand was 
into ThunderClan territory, and the most obvious place to 
attack was Sunningrocks. She watched Bluestar, waiting for 
her reaction. Surely she would be furious? 

Bluestar dipped her head graciously. “You're right, 
Leopardstar,” she mewed. “RiverClan has endured hard 
times. Yet your cats are so strong and noble that I know you 
will survive.” 

Leopardstar blinked in surprise. Didn’t Bluestar realize 
she’d been challenged? She tried to read the ThunderClan 
leader’s expression. Was she hiding her anger? There was 
no sign of it. No ruffled pelt or twitching ear. Bluestar was 


staring at her calmly. 

There was something very wrong with ThunderClan’s 
leader. She didn’t seem to be in her right mind. Leopardstar’s 
thoughts quickened. Any Clan was vulnerable without 
strong leadership. But ThunderClan had been weakened by 
the fire too. This was a perfect opportunity to take back 
Sunningrocks. 

She hesitated. Would it be dishonorable to attack 
ThunderClan when they were so weak? She glanced at 
Tigerstar. What would he do? 

He met her gaze, widening his eyes a little, as though he 
was encouraging her. Was he telling her to go ahead with 
her plan? He might think she was weak if she didn’t. Every 
cat knew that Sunningrocks belonged to RiverClan. It 
always had, and it was humiliating to have ThunderClan 
hunting and patrolling there as though they were the true 
owners. 

This was her chance to put things right. She could 
finally redress the balance that Crookedstar had refused to. 
And it would be easier now than ever before. Leopardstar’s 
fur prickled with excitement. Perhaps StarClan had arranged 
for it to be so easy. They could be hoping that Sunningrocks 
would finally be returned to the right Clan. Surely, it would 
be foolish and ungrateful—mouse-brained, even—not to 
take advantage of the situation? 





CHAPTER 28 
¥ 


Leopardstar lashed her tail. She was breathing hard. Battle 
cries exploded behind her as her Clanmates fought on. They 
would win this time. This tiny ThunderClan patrol couldn’t 
stop them from taking back Sunningrocks. 

She narrowed her eyes against the glare of the sun and 
stared down into the gully. The early frost was still sparkling 
there. The claw marks Bluestar had left on her flanks stung. 
She’d seen the ThunderClan leader try to escape into its 
shadows, but she wasn’t going to let her get away without 
telling her that Sunningrocks belonged to its rightful owners 
once more. 

She stiffened as she caught sight of Bluestar, cornered at 
the end of the gully. Her heart quickened with pleasure as 
she saw that Mistyfoot and Stonefur had already caught up 
with the ThunderClan leader. They had pinned her to the 
ground. Would they kill her? She looked closer, frowning. 
They were frozen. 

Leopardstar opened her mouth to ask what they were 
waiting for when she saw a flame-colored pelt behind the 
two warriors. 

It was Fireheart. He was talking to them. She could hear 
his mew but couldn’t make out the words. As he spoke, 
Mistyfoot released Bluestar. Stonefur backed away. In an 


instant, Fireheart leaped past them and, bundling Bluestar 
against the rock, stood in front of her. 

What was he saying to them? Leopardstar pricked her 
ears, straining to hear as Fireheart went on. Why were they 
listening to the arrogant kittypet? Rage flared in her belly. 
Attack him! 

She’d have to deal with this herself. With a yowl, she 
hurled herself into the gully. 

Acry rang out above her. “Fireheart! Watch out!” 

She recognized the mew. Graystripe! Her rage hardened. 
He’d betrayed her. She slammed into Fireheart, blood roaring 
in her ears. She’d make him pay, and then she’d tum her fury 
on Graystripe. She pinned Fireheart easily. He was weak from 
the battle. She raked his belly with her hind claws. She’d put 
an end to him right now. No kittypet was going to be Clan 
leader. She’d make sure of that. He writhed beneath her, 
trying to escape, but her grip was too strong. She saw his 
throat and lunged at it with her teeth. 

Claws hooked her from behind. They hauled her 
backward, tearing her away from Fireheart. She gasped, 
shock sparking through her pelt as she was flung to the 
ground and held there by huge gray paws. 

“Graystripe!” She’d been right all along. He’d been 
nothing more than a ThunderClan spy in her camp. “I had 
him!” She was so angry she could hardly spit out the words. 
“Theard you just now. You warned him!” 


He let her go and backed away. She scrambled to her 
paws. Where were Mistyfoot and Stonefur? She wanted 
them to kill this traitor. There was no sign of them. She gave 
a low warning growl and fixed her gaze on Graystripe. 

He was staring at her with round, panicked eyes. “I’m 
sorry, Leopardstar. But Fireheart’s my friend.” 

She should have done something about this fox-heart as 
soon as she’d become leader. J should have listened to 
Tigerstar. 

Blood was welling in her fur. She shook it out. Fireheart 
watched her from behind Graystripe. He was injured and 
barely had the strength to hold himself up. She could smell 
his fear scent. “You were never loyal to RiverClan,” she 
hissed. “So Pm giving you a choice. Attack your friend for 
me now, or leave the Clan for good.” She glared at him. She 
knew he wouldn’t hurt Fireheart. She just wanted to see him 
own up to his treachery. Of course he’d take the chance to 
retum to ThunderClan. Why wouldn’t he? His disloyalty 
had been so brazen that no warrior would ever again believe 
that he’d joined RiverClan to be close to his kits. That had 
been a lie. And his love for Silverstream? Had that been a lie 
too? She gave a low, long growl as Graystripe stared at her 
in dismay. “Well,” she snarled. “What are you waiting for?” 

Graystripe glanced at Fireheart. 

Are you waiting for him to answer for you? Leopardfur 
curled her lip. Cant you think for yourself? 


“Tm sorry, Leopardstar.” Graystripe bowed his head. “I 
can’t do it. Punish me if you want.” 

“Punish you?” Did he think he’d been caught stealing 
prey? Did disloyalty mean nothing to him? Fury stole her 
breath. “Ill claw your eyes out! PI set you loose in the 
forest for foxes to track down. Traitor! PIL—” 

Yowls sounded from the rocks above. Blackclaw peered 
over the top of the gully, his eyes sparking with panic. 
“ThunderClan has sent reinforcements!” 

Leopardstar glared at him. 

“We’re outnumbered,” he wailed. “We can’t win!” 

She’d have to finish this another time. Her Clanmates 
needed her. She leaped up beside Blackclaw, her pelt spiking 
as she saw ThunderClan warriors swarming over 
Sunningrocks. “Retreat!” 

She signaled her warriors toward the river with a flick of 
her tail and guarded them as they fled past her, frustration 
pulsing beneath her pelt. She followed them to the river and 
kept an eye on the slope above, ready to defend them as 
they leaped in and swam across. Mistyfoot and Stonefur 
were already climbing out on the far shore. She saw them 
glance back toward Sunningrocks and exchange words. 
Their eyes flashed with fear. What had that kittypet said to 
themto make themrun away? 

ThunderClan cats were pouring down the slope after 
them. As the last of her warriors plunged into the river, she 


leaped after them and swam to the shore. Climbing out, she 
looked back at Sunningrocks. ThunderClan warriors lined 
the top and clustered on the shore. They were yowling 
triumphantly. Leopardstar glared at them. This wasn’t the 
end. It could never be the end. She would have won this 
battle, if she hadn’t been betrayed. 

She lifted her muzzle. “Graystripe is a traitor.” She 
yowled the words clearly so that they rang out across the 
river. She wanted ThunderClan and RiverClan to hear. “If 
he’s ever seen on RiverClan territory again, I want him 
killed.” 

She didn’t speak again until she reached camp. She was 
too angry. Blackclaw and Reedtail limped ahead of her 
through the reeds. Stonefur had been keeping out of sight. 
As she padded into camp, she saw him on the far side of the 
clearing with Mistyfoot. Shadepelt and Loudbelly were 
already licking their wounds. Timberfur and Cedarpelt 
watched anxiously from outside the elders’ den. They didn’t 
ask any questions. They must have guessed the battle had 
gone badly. 

Mudfur hurried toward Leopardstar. He had a leaf wrap 
in his jaws. “You’re injured,’ he mewed, laying it on the 
ground and unfolding it. He inspected the wounds on her 
flank. 

She ducked away, her tail lashing. “See to the others 
first,’ she snapped. “I’m fine!” 


He glanced at her but said nothing and, picking up his 
leaf wrap, headed toward Shadepelt. 

Leopardstar walked over to Stonefur and Mistyfoot. 
They watched her coming like rabbits watching a hawk. 
“What happened?” she snapped as she reached them. 
“What did that kittypet say to you to stop you from 
fighting?” Were they traitors too? Had Graystripe managed 
to tum her these two littermates against her? Her heart was 
pounding with fury. Blood pulsed in her paws. 

They glanced at each other nervously. 

Leopardstar narrowed her eyes. “Well?” 

Stonefur dipped his head. “Bluestar was so confused,” 
he mewed softly. “Fireheart said it would be dishonorable to 
hurt her.” 

Leopardstar hissed. “You listened to him?” 

“Only because he was right,” Mistyfoot mewed quickly. 
“She was so confused, she didn’t seem to know who was 
attacking her.” 

“Tt was like attacking a kit,” Stonefur chimed. 

Leopardstar forced her pelt to smooth. He had a point. 
But it didn’t change the fact that they’d lost the battle. 
“Your honor cost us hunting land we can’t afford to lose,” 
she snarled. “You’ll be doing double patrols for a moon to 
try and make it up to us!” 

Stonefur dropped his gaze. “Okay,” he murmured. 

At least he seemed to have admitted his mistake. She 


fixed her gaze on Mistyfoot. 

“We’re sorry,” the gray she-cat breathed, staring at her 
paws. 

Leopardstar’s anger ebbed a little. “Killing Bluestar in 
cold blood would have been wrong,” she conceded. “But 
what about Fireheart? I had to fight him myself. Graystripe 
attacked me. You’d disappeared and I was outnumbered.” 

Stonefur looked at her, his gaze glistening with shame. 
“T’m sorry,” he mewed. “I rejoined the battle on the rock.” 

“We thought you could deal with Fireheart,” Mistyfoot 
added. 

“We didn’t think Graystripe would actually attack you.” 
Stonefur blinked at her. 

Nor did I. She’d never trusted him, but she hadn’t 
thought he’d actually turn on her in battle. She’d been far 
too tolerant. She should have banished him the moment 
Crookedstar had died. She shivered as she imagined what 
Tigerstar would say. He’d mock her for being so weak. A real 
leader would have dealt with this earlier. 


The crisp, dry weather that had set in before the battle 
lingered, and in the days afterward, the Clan woke to frost. 
Leopardstar ordered extra hunting patrols and, this morning, 
led one to the river. 

As she reached the shore, her heart sank. It was frozen. 

Blackclaw stared at the water. “It’s too early to freeze,” 
he mewed in dismay. 


Sedgecreek poked the ice with her paw. “It’s too thick to 
break.” 

Leopardstar pressed back a growl They sounded 
defeated. But it wasn’t their fault that a cold snap had come 
so early. And she wasn’t going to endanger her warriors by 
sending them into freezing water to fish beneath ice. 

She stared at it, her thoughts quickening. “We’ll have to 
send more hunting parties into the forest,” she mewed. 
“We’ll cross borders if necessary. WindClan land will be 
prey-rich still.” 

Blackclaw looked at her anxiously. “Won’t that cause a 
battle?” 

Leopardstar glared at him “Are you scared of 
WindClan?” 

“No,” he mewed quickly. 

Leopardstar looked across the river to where 
Sunningrocks glowed in the sunshine. Her belly churned 
with rage. “We’ll do whatever we have to,” she growled. “I 
won’t let my Clan starve.” 

Her rage gnawed at her as they hunted along the shore, 
and even though they caught a warbler and two voles, it 
hadn’t eased by the time they returned to camp. 

As Blackclaw and Sedgecreek dropped their catch on the 
fresh-kill pile, Leopardstar sat down at the edge of the 
clearing. What if there was no thaw? What if the river stayed 
frozen through all of leaf-bare? She shifted uneasily. It was 


only leaf-fall, and her Clan faced hunger already. She gazed 
distractedly at Primrosekit and Pikekit as they ran past. 
Featherkit and Stormkit chased after them. 

“If we catch you, we”ll eat you!” Stormkit squeaked. 

Primrosekit and Pikekit squealed in mock terror and ran 
even faster. 

Leopardstar’s whiskers twitched. Primrosekit and Pikekit 
would become apprentices any day now. Stormkit and 
Featherkit, still with their kit fluff, looked ridiculous chasing 
after denmates twice their size. But it felt good to watch them 
play. 

She watched as Primrosekit and Pikekit tumed on 
Stormkit and Featherkit and the chase turned into a play 
battle. 

“You'll never beat us!” Primrosekit squeaked 
triumphantly. 

“True warriors will always win over fox-hearts!” Pikekit 
chimed. 

Leopardstar purred. They weren’t worried about prey or 
ThunderClan or Sunningrocks. They were safe and happy, 
and she’d make sure they stayed that way. 

“Now it’s our tum,” Stormkit mewed, breaking away from 
the fight and sitting up. He blinked at Primrosekit. “You 
chase us this time.” 

Featherkit leaped to her paws eagerly. “Yes! This time, 
you can be ThunderClan and we can be RiverClan.” 


Leopardstar pricked her ears. 

Primrosekit looked indignant. “But you have to be 
ThunderClan,” she mewed. 

“Why?” Stormkit blinked at her. 

“Because you’re too weak to win a battle.” 

Stormkit frowned. “But in real life ThunderClan wins 
battles all the time.” 

Leopardstar’s breath caught in her throat. ThunderClan 
wins battles all the time. Rage flared fresh beneath her pelt. 
Stormkit was too young to understand what he was saying, 
but those were clearly Graystripe’s words. That traitor was 
still undermining the Clan even now that he had left. She got 
to her paws. She’d have to speak to the kits. 

“Leopardstar.” Stonefur’s mew made her turn. 

The RiverClan deputy had stopped beside her. He 
looked at her anxiously. “Tigerstar’s here.” He nodded to the 
entrance, where the ShadowClan leader was flanked by 
Vixenleap and Mistyfoot. 

He was looking around the camp, his eyes gleaming. 

Leopardstar fluffed out her fur. “Bring him to my den,” 
she told Stonefur. “Pll speak to him there.” 





CHAPTER 29 
¥ 


She waited until Stonefur 5 paw steps had faded before she 
spoke. The moss trailing at the entrance of her den was still 
shivering where they’d pushed through, and Tigerstar’s 
eyes gleamed in the half-light. 

“Why have you come?” she asked. 

He sat down. “To wam you.” 

She stiffened. “Has something happened?” 

“ThunderClan has been hunting in the Fourtrees hollow 
lately.” 

Her pelt rippled along her spine. “Fourtrees is neutral 
territory. No one is supposed to hunt there.” 

“Perhaps the forest prey hasn’t recovered from the fire,” 
Tigerstar mewed. “Or perhaps they just want to leave their 
mark there.” 

“Should we challenge them?” 

“That’s up to you.” He tucked his tail over his paws. “I 
thought you might be thinking of sending patrols there too.” 

“Why would I send patrols to Fourtrees?” 

“The river’s frozen, and you didn’t manage to reclaim 
Sunningrocks—” 

Had he just come to remind her of her failures? She cut 
him off. “I don’t need advice,” she snapped. 

He dipped his head apologetically. “I was just trying to 


be a helpful ally. Forgive me.” 

She fluffed out her fur “Are you going to challenge 
ThunderClan?” she asked. 

“Tmnot sure ShadowClan is strong enough to challenge 
them alone.” His eyes rounded innocently. Was he hinting 
that he wanted RiverClan’s help? He went on. “Besides, we 
have enough prey inside our borders. I'm more worried 
about you. Both you and ThunderClan are struggling to find 
prey. Since you share a border, it might lead to conflict. All it 
would take is for one warrior to accidentally chase prey 
across the scent line .. .” He paused. “Prey doesn’t respect 
boundaries.” 

“They haven’t crossed it so far,” she mewed evenly. He 
was trying to tell her something, but she wasn’t sure what it 
was. 

“Tf they did,” he mewed, “you would have ShadowClan’s 
support. Indeed, if perhaps you ...” He hesitated again. 

Leopardstar leaned forward. 

“If you wanted to cross their border, ShadowClan 
wouldn’t object.” 

“You want me to steal prey from ThunderClan?” 

“T want you to know that ShadowClan supports you 
whatever you decide.” He was staring at her meaningfully. 

She narrowed her eyes. He seemed to be encouraging 
her to provoke ThunderClan. Was this his way of shaking 
up the Clans—by starting wars? 


“Imagine how strong we could be if we worked 
together,” he mewed. 

“But we’re already allies.” 

“Pmthinking further ahead,” he mewed. “Imagine if there 
weren’t four Clans fighting over borders, but two.” 

She stiffened. “But there have always been four Clans.” 

“Why?” 

“Because that’s what StarClan decided.” 

“There aren’t four Clans in StarClan,” Tigerstar pointed 
out. “Why is there one rule for StarClan and another for us? 
Do you think StarClan might enjoy watching our petty 
quarrels over borders and prey?” 

“Of course not!” Her pelt bristled. What he was 
suggesting would undermine the warrior code. It would go 
against everything she’d been raised to believe. And yet, 
fewer Clans would mean fewer borders. And more prey. 
RiverClan wouldn’t go hungry every time the river froze or 
flooded. She pushed the thought away. It was mouse- 
brained. “ThunderClan would never agree,” she mewed. 
“And WindClan can only hunt on the moor. They have no 
idea how to catch forest prey.” 

Tigerstar’s eyes shone. “Who said ThunderClan or 
WindClan has to agree?” he mewed. “I’m not interested in 
rabbit-chasers or kittypets. I’d prefer to work with you. We 
share the same principles. We’re forward-thinking, not stuck 
in the past. We could build a strong Clan of true warriors.” 


Her heart quickened. A Clan of true warriors could rule 
the whole forest. She could take Sunningrocks back from 
ThunderClan. She could hunt the moor whenever she 
needed. 

Tigerstar leaned closer. His breath was warm, and she 
could smell the musky scent of mouse on it. “This is the 
change I’ve been talking about. This is how we make the 
Clans stronger than they’ve ever been.” 

She stared at him. Two Clans. Was it possible? 

She shuddered. Ofcourse not. RiverClan was RiverClan, 
and no matter how hard it was to survive, she couldn’t 
imagine giving that up, becoming part of another Clan. “No.” 
She lifted her muzzle. “We can be allies. But nothing more.” 

He stared at her for a moment, as though waiting for her 
to change her mind, then got to his paws. “I’m 
disappointed,” he mewed. “But perhaps you’re right. Why 
do the Clans need change? RiverClan is fine the way it is.” 
He turned toward the entrance. “Good luck feeding your 
Clan.” His tail swished past her muzzle as he nosed his way 
out of the den. 

He was irritated. He’d get over it. And yet she couldn’t 
help feeling a twinge of guilt too. She’d said she’d wanted 
change, and now that Tigerstar had asked her to help him 
make it happen, she’d let him down. Were his ideas really so 
unreasonable? After all, he only wanted to make sure their 
warriors didn’t go hungry. Could uniting the Clans be the 


way to achieve it? 


The next day, Featherkit and Stormkit were pacing 
eagerly at the edge of the clearing while Mosspelt watched 
them proudly. 

Leopardstar called to her Clanmates. “Let all cats old 
enough to swim gather to hear my words.” 

Jaggedtooth and Boulder got slowly to their paws as her 
other Clanmates gathered around the clearing. The two toms 
pushed their way between Timberfur and Cedarpelt and sat 
down, watching through narrowed eyes as Mosspelt 
gathered Featherkit and Stormkit close to her with a swish of 
her tail. 

The kits stared expectantly at Leopardstar, and she felt a 
twinge of anxiety. It was her duty to help these kits become 
brave and loyal RiverClan warriors. Could they ever 
overcome their ThunderClan blood? She glanced at Stonefur 
and Mistyfoot. Had she made the right decision? Stonefur 
had been asking questions lately. He clearly doubted her 
choices. What if he passed on that doubt to his apprentice? 

She shook out her pelt crossly. Mudfur and Crookedstar 
had spent so long doubting her that she’d learned to doubt 
herself. She wasn’t going to let them or Stonefur, or any 
other cat, make her question her choices. She wanted the 
best for her Clan, and the decisions she made would always 
reflect that. 

“Featherkit.” She called the young she-cat to the middle 


of the clearing. How she’d grown since the night Graystripe 
had carried her across the stepping-stones and dropped her 
at Crookedstar’s paws! And how much had changed since 
then. “You have reached the age of six moons, and it’s time 
for you to be apprenticed,” she mewed. Featherkit’s eyes 
were large and shimmered with excitement. “From this day 
on, you will be known as Featherpaw. Your mentor will be 
Mistyfoot. I hope she will pass down all she knows to you.” 

Mistyfoot was standing at the edge of the clearing, 
looking ready to hurry across to greet her apprentice. 

Leopardstar beckoned her forward with a nod. 
“Mistyfoot.” She dipped her head to the pale gray she-cat 
as she reached her “You have been a loyal and brave 
warrior. You have already given your Clan kits who will, in 
their turn, become true warriors.” 

Primrosepaw, Reedpaw, and Pikepaw were watching from 
beside Blackclaw, pride glowing in their eyes. 

“Now it is time to pass your skills on to a younger cat. I 
hope Featherpaw will thrive under your mentorship.” 

She felt suddenly touched by the grave affection with 
which Mistyfoot pressed her nose to Featherpaw’s head. No 
matter what blood flowed beneath their pelts, these kits were 
her Clanmates. They would be strong RiverClan apprentices, 
and soon even stronger warriors. 

“Stormkit.” 

As she called the young tom forward, he hurried from 


the edge of the clearing. Jaggedtooth muttered something 
into Boulder’s ear, and they exchanged a look that made the 
fur prickle along Leopardstar’s spine. 

“Silence!” she growled at them. “This is an important 
ceremony. Save your gossip until afterward.” 

Jaggedtooth glowered at her. Boulder tipped his head to 
one side. But Leopardstar ignored them and looked back at 
Stormkit. The young tom was staring at her excitedly. 

“You have reached six moons, and you are ready to be 
apprenticed. From this day on you will be known as 
Stormpaw. Your mentor will be Stonefur.” She nodded the 
deputy forward and dipped her head. “You are one of our 
Clan’s strongest and most skillful warriors,” she told him as 
he stopped beside Stormpaw. “I expect you to pass on your 
skills to Stormpaw and train him to become as formidable a 
fighter and hunter as you are.” 

Stonefur’s eyes glowed, and for the first time in days, he 
looked happy. As he touched his nose to Stormpaw’s head, 
the Clan began to call out the names of the new apprentices. 

“Stormpaw!” 

“Featherpaw!” 

Mosspelt’s mew was the loudest, but it was soon 
drowned out by Blackclaw’s and the other warriors’ as the 
island rang to the sound of her Clanmates’ cheers. 

Leopardstar let her shoulders relax. The apprentices’ den 
would be full again. No wonder Tigerstar had wanted 


RiverClan to align with him. 

As the celebration died down, Leopardstar nodded to 
her deputy. 

“Stonefur, I want to talk about hunting patrols. Ask 
Blackclaw, Sedgecreek, and Ottersplash to join us.” 

He nodded, leaving the mouse he’d been eating to hurry 
across the clearing. 

Leopardstar paced outside her den. Tigerstar’s scent still 
lingered. She’d turned him down, but she thought he’d still 
support her if she ran into conflict with ThunderClan. It 
might be worth testing him. 

She dipped her head as Stonefur, Sedgecreek, Blackclaw, 
and Ottersplash gathered around her. Stonefur blinked at her 
expectantly. 

“Last leaf-bare, RiverClan cats went hungry,” 
Leopardstar mewed. “This leaf-bare, I’m going to make sure 
that doesn’t happen.” 

“How?” Ottersplash mewed. “The river is already frozen 
and leaf-bare has hardly begun.” 

“And ThunderClan still has Sunningrocks,” Blackclaw 
added. 

Her fur ruffled. “We have to look elsewhere.” 

Stonefur shifted his paws uneasily. “What do you 
mean?” 

“Tf the patrols don’t bring back enough prey today, 
tomorrow I will ask them to cross the ThunderClan border.” 


Stonefur’s pelt rippled along his spine. “That’s 
trespassing!” 

Leopardstar tipped her head to one side. “Would you 
rather your Clanmates went hungry?” 

“Of course not.” His tail was twitching. “But we can’t 
steal ThunderClan prey to feed ourselves. The warrior code 

“The warrior code also tells us that we mustn’t allow a 
kit to suffer.” She glanced toward the nursery. “Which rule 
do you think is most important?” 

“Tknow, but—” 

“Are you loyalto RiverClan or not?” 

He stared at her, his ears twitching. 

“Are you loyal or not?” she hissed. 

“Pm loyal!” he mewed. “I’ve always been loyal. How 
could you even ask?” He fluffed out his pelt, but he looked 
nervous. “Pd do anything to protect my Clanmates. I always 
will, even if...” 

Leopardstar narrowed her eyes. “Even if?” 

“Even if’—he hesitated again, flustered—“they don’t 
want me to.” 

“Pm glad to hear it.” Leopardstar got to her paws. Why 
was he acting so suspiciously? “The meeting’s over,” she 
mewed. “It’s decided. We will hunt across the river if we 
must.” 

She dismissed them with the flick of her tail. Stonefur’s 


reaction had unnerved her. She padded out of camp and, 
pushing among the reeds, sat down beside the river. Ice 
stretched to the far shore. She could see it was thin at the 
center. A patrol could probably break through. But she 
wasn’t going to order her warriors to fish beneath ice. It was 
too easy to get disoriented and lose sight of the breathing 
hole. She didn’t want any cat getting trapped there. 

Stonefur’s words nagged at her. /’d do anything to 
protect them. Even if... 

Even if what? What had the RiverClan deputy been 
about to say? Before the incident at Sunningrocks, it had 
never occurred to her that Stonefur could be disloyal. But 
Fireheart had said something to him and Mistyfoot that had 
made them back away. And now Stonefur was objecting to 
taking ThunderClan prey. Was disloyalty like a sickness that 
spread through a Clan? Had Graystripe infected him? 

Paw steps sounded on the track behind her. She glanced 
through the reeds and saw a blue-gray pelt moving beyond 
them. She tasted the air. It was Stonefur. He was treading 
lightly, as though trying not to be noticed. Where was he 
going on his own? Didn’t he have duties in camp? 

She waited for him to pass, then slipped out of the reeds 
and followed his scent, staying far enough behind that he 
didn’t see her. It led her to the edge of a grassy clearing 
hidden among the reed beds. She ducked down and 
wriggled between the reeds until she was close enough to 


hear. Mistyfoot was pacing on the grass while Stonefur 
spoke to her. 

“We don’t have to do anything,” he mewed. “We just 
have to stay quiet.” 

“But Fireheart knows.” Mistyfoot looked at him, her 
eyes sparkling with fear. “Which means Graystripe must 
know. Perhaps the whole of ThunderClan knows.” 

“Of course they don’t,’ Stonefur reassured her. 
“Fireheart only told us so that we wouldn’t hurt Bluestar.” 

Told you what? Leopardstar wriggled closer. 

Mistyfoot refused to be comforted. “What if RiverClan 
finds out?” 

“Some of them might already know,” Stonefur mewed 
grimly. “It can’t have been easy smuggling two kits into the 
nursery. And Graypool might have confided in someone. It 
must have been hard pretending we were her kits all these 
moons.” 

Pretending? Leopardstar swallowed. What did he mean? 
Weren’t Stonefur and Mistyfoot Graypool’s real kits? 

Mistyfoot blinked at her brother. “It must have been 
hard for Oakheart too,” she mewed. “He had to pretend we 
werent his kits.” Her mew cracked. “I wish he’d told us, 
once we were old enough.” 

“Bluestar must have made him promise to keep it a 
secret,” Stonefur mewed. 

Leopardstar’s ears bumed with curiosity. What did 


Bluestar have to do with this? 

“Why did she give us up?” Mistyfoot mewed. “When 
she gave Featherkit and Stormkit to RiverClan, she said kits 
belong in their mother 5 Clan. If she believed that, shouldn’t 
she have kept us with her?” 

Leopardstar’s eyes widened. Had she understood 
properly? Were Mistyfoot and Stonefur the kits of Bluestar 
and Oakheart? Was RiverClan’s deputy a halfClan cat? 

Stonefur frowned. “Whatever Bluestar decided, she 
must have thought was for the best. All we have to do now 
is keep it secret.” 

“Shouldn’t we tell Leopardstar?” Mistyfoot mewed. 
“She should know.” 

“Have you seen the way she looks at Featherpaw and 
Stormpaw since Graystripe betrayed her?” Stonefur mewed. 
“And she nearly bit off my head just now because I didn’t 
want to agree to steal ThunderClan prey.” He shivered. 
“She’s far too sensitive after what happened with 
Silverstream and Graystripe. Let’s just keep it quiet.” 

Leopardstar didn’t need to hear any more. She slid 
backward through the reeds and ducked out onto the track. 
Hurrying back to camp, her thoughts spun. She’d thought 
Featherpaw and Stormpaw had been the only half-Clan cats 
in RiverClan. Now it seemed there were two more—and 
she’d made them Featherpaw’s and Stormpaw’s mentors. 
Anxiety wormed beneath her pelt. When water found its way 


into stone, it could split it. Was that what would happen in 
RiverClan? Four cats with ThunderClan blood. How could 
she trust their loyalty? Would they betray her like Graystripe 
had? She whisked her tail. She should have dealt with him 
earlier. This time, she wasn’t going to make the same 
mistake. 





CHAPTER 30 
Se 


Leopardstar glanced toward the camp entrance. How long 
until Tigerstar arrived? She’d sent Blackclaw to fetch him 
ages ago. She tore off another strip of squirrel and began to 
chew it. The musky flavor was quite pleasant, and she was 
getting used to gnawing bones. They were almost tasty, 
really, once she’d softened themup with her teeth. 

The sun was sliding toward the river, turning the reed 
beds rosy. Her Clanmates had settled around her, sharing the 
day’s catch between them. Satisfaction swept Leopardstar’s 
pelt. Every cat had a piece of prey. They might even come to 
enjoy forest food. They’d have plenty more chances to eat 
it. 

The cross-border patrols over the past few days had 
gone smoothly. Despite the fire, prey was running well on 
ThunderClan land, so much so that Leopardstar wondered if 
ThunderClan would even miss the squirrels and mice her 
warriors had brought back. As soon as the river thawed, 
they would return to fishing. But, in the meantime, she 
wasn’t going to let her Clan go hungry. 

It felt liberating to ignore borders, and she’d begun to 
wonder why she’d ever let scent lines decide whether her 
Clan went hungry or not. If prey was there, why should cats 
starve? And if ThunderClan objected, she knew 


ShadowClan would back her up. Slowly, she’d begun to see 
that borders existed only in the minds of the Clans, and that 
Clans might be stronger and better fed without them. 
Tigerstar’s plan to unite the four Clans seemed more and 
more sensible. And hadn’t Mudfur and Crookedstar both 
dreamed ofa time without petty battles over prey? 

First Tigerstar had suggested that they go from four 
Clans to two. But recently, he’d asked why they should stop 
there. She and Tigerstar had similar outlooks; surely they 
could lead together with little conflict. And if there were only 
one Clan, there would be no need to fight. Of course, he 
said, ThunderClan and WindClan wouldn’t agree at first. 
WindClan had always kept too much to themselves, and 
ThunderClan enjoyed bossing the other Clans around too 
much to accept them as equals. But if RiverClan and 
ShadowClan worked together, WindClan and ThunderClan 
would eventually have no choice but to share their land, 
and, in exchange, she and Tigerstar would guarantee peace. 

She pushed the squirrel away and lay back, enjoying the 
last faint rays ofthe sun. Happiness flowed beneath her pelt. 
It looked as though Mudfur’s vision was coming true. She 
would be the cat to save RiverClan. Because of her, there 
would be prey and peace no matter the season. 

She watched her Clan, feeling pleased. Timberfur, 
Cedarpelt, and Piketooth had settled well into the elders’ 
den. Pikepaw, Reedpaw, and Primrosepaw were apprentices 


now, and Mosspelt had Skyheart for company. 

She could see the queens now, lying in the soft grass 
beside the clearing. Skyheart was picking at the mouse 
Reedtail had brought her. Her nose wrinkled as she sniffed 
the plump piece of prey and pushed it away. Was her 
pregnancy making her feel queasy? 

Leopardstar got to her paws and crossed the clearing. 
“Are you okay?” she asked as she reached her. “Should I 
fetch Mudfur? I’m sure he can give you herbs for the 
sickness.” 

Skyheart blinked at her. “I’m not sick.” She poked the 
mouse with a claw. “I just don’t like this.” 

“You’ve eaten water vole and warbler before,” 
Leopardstar reminded her. “Mouse isn’t so different. You'll 
get used to it.” 

“Pm not sure if I want to.” Skyheart’s tail twitched 
irritably. 

“We can’t rely on river prey,’ Leopardstar told her. 
“Sometimes forest prey is all we have.” 

“But this is ThunderClan prey,” Skyheart mewed. 
“Eating it seems”—she hesitated, eyeing Leopardstar 
—“wrong.” 

Leopardstar stiffened. “Wrong?” 

“It's stolen.” Skyheart looked at her boldly. 

Leopardstar stiffened. “It was caught by your Clanmates 
so you wouldn’t go hungry and so your kits can grow 


strong.” 

Skyheart lifted her muzzle. “It was caught on another 
Clan’s land.” 

Leopardstar’s pelt ruffled. “RiverClan hasn’t gone 
hungry even though the river is frozen.” Didn’t Skyheart 
appreciate that? 

“What about ThunderClan?” Skyheart snapped. “Have 
they gone hungry because we’ve stolen their prey?” 

“You should be grateful you have food.” Leopardstar 
snapped back. Behind her, the entrance tunnel swished. But 
she didn’t turn to see who’d arrived. Anger was sparking in 
her belly. Were the rest of the Clan ungrateful too? She 
looked at them, her tail twitching as she noticed them 
picking at their prey like difficult kits. Didn’t they realize 
they’d be starving if it weren’t for her? She tumed on 
Skyheart again. “It’s your duty to eat well and make sure 
your kits grow into healthy warriors!” 

Paw steps stopped beside her and Tigerstar’s scent 
swept her muzzle. The ShadowClan leader had arrived. She 
stiffened. She didn’t want him to see how ungrateful her 
Clan was. But he was already staring at Skyheart’s unwanted 
mouse. 

He hooked it with a large claw and dangled it in front of 
the queen. “You should eat every morsel.” He dropped in 
front of her. “Or Leopardstar might think you don’t want 
your kits to grow up strong.” 


Skyheart glared at him and pushed the mouse away. “I 
eat what I like,” she snapped. 

His tail flicked ominously. “Eat it,” he growled. 

Skyheart looked at Leopardstar. “Are you going to let 
him tell me what to do?” 

Leopardstar hesitated. It felt strange to let another Clan 
leader give orders to her Clanmates. And yet, soon they’d 
be his Clanmates too. That was why she’d asked him here. 
That was why he’d come. She was going to agree to unite 
RiverClan and ShadowClan into a single Clan. She nodded at 
the mouse. “He’s right,” she mewed. “You should eat it for 
the good of your kits.” 

Skyheart blinked at her. Then she looked around the 
clearing, as though appealing to her Clanmates. 

Tigerstar didn't take his gaze from the queen. RiverClan 
was watching uneasily. Leopardstar shifted self-consciously. 
I must back him up. He needed to know she would support 
him, and the Clan needed to know that things were going to 
change. It was the only way to make sure they would have 
prey every night. 

“Eat it,” she told Skyheart. 

The gray queen flattened her ears. 

“Eat it,” she snapped. 

Skyheart stared defiantly back for a moment; then she 
leaned down to take a bite. 

“All of it,” Tigerstar growled. 


Leopardstar’s paws pricked as Skyheart slowly ate the 
mouse. She felt uncomfortable, but the queen would go to 
her nest with a full belly, and when her kits were born, 
healthy and strong, they would never know hunger. 

As Skyheart spat out the bones, Tigerstar yanked them 
away. “You should keep her from prey for a few sunrises,” 
he told Leopardstar. “See how she likes going hungry.” 

Leopardstar glanced at him. Was he this strict with his 
own Clanmates? “That would certainly teach her to be a little 
more grateful for her food,” she told him. “But she’s a queen. 
We must take care of her kits.” 

But Tigerstar didn’t seem to hear. He was looking at the 
bones. “Save all your bones from now on.” He looked at the 
small piles collected around the clearing. “I have a plan for 
them.” 

What did a warrior want with bones? Leopardstar 
glanced at him curiously, but she didn’t ask. There were 
more important things to discuss. She jerked her nose 
toward the reed tunnel. “Let’s talk.” 

As she led him out of camp, she felt a glimmer of 
satisfaction. The powerful tabby had crossed Fourtrees and 
walked all the way to her camp to hear what she had to say. 
He needed RiverClan. She liked it. 

Outside, she stopped beside the river “I’ve been 
thinking about what you said,” she told him “And I’ve 
come to a decision.” 


Tigerstar sat down, his sleek pelt glossy in the twilight. 
“I was pleased to see Blackclaw,” he mewed. “Especially 
when he told me you wanted to speak to me.” He pricked his 
ears. “Good news, I hope?” 

“I took your advice and expanded my hunting patrols,” 
she told him. 

“You mean you’ve been hunting on ThunderClan land.” 
His whiskers twitched. “I thought I recognized the scent of 
ThunderClan prey.” 

“I can see now how borders cause unnecessary 
hardship,” she mewed. “Why shouldn’t warriors hunt where 
they like? Why do they need to go hungry because of a 
scent line?” 

“Borders create hunger,” Tigerstar mewed. 

“Fewer Clans means more prey for all.” 

“Exactly.” He licked a paw and ran it over his ear. “Does 
this mean you’re finally ready to shake things up a bit?” 

“Yes.” Excitement sparked in her belly. 

“RiverClan and ShadowClan will become one?” 

She hadn’t discussed this with Stonefur yet. She knew 
her deputy would never agree. How could he agree to an 
alliance against ThunderClan when ThunderClan blood ran 
beneath his pelt? But this was right. And he would come to 
see it in the end, as would ThunderClan and WindClan. This 
was the best for everyone, but most importantly, it was the 
best for RiverClan. “We’ll be equals?” she asked. “We’ll lead 


together?” 

“Of course,” he mewed smoothly. “Everything will be 
shared fairly.” 

“And you'll discuss everything with me before you 
act?” 

“Pve always valued your opinion.” That was true. He’d 
treated her with respect even when Crookedstar and Mudfur 
doubted her. “This will begin a new age for the Clans,” he 
went on. “Once every Clan has accepted that unity is the 
best way forward, there will be peace and prey for every 
cat.” 

Leopardstar’s heart was racing. She’d never see her 
Clanmates go hungry again. And ThunderClan and 
WindClan would treat her with a new respect. She lifted her 
muzzle, energy fizzing through her pelt. “All right,” she 
mewed. “Let’s do this. Let’s become a single Clan.” 

Tigerstar’s tail swished. “Good.” He looked across the 
river, the light of the rising moon reflecting in his amber 
eyes. “With RiverClan on our side, ShadowClan will never 
be defeated. Together, we’ll form TigerClan. We’ll be the 
fiercest hunters and fighters in the forest, just like the 
ancestors we were named for.” 

Leopardstar blinked at him “Or we could be 
LeopardClan.” 

He looked at her. “Let’s decide the details later,’ he 
purred. “We’re going to make a great team. We’ll remake the 


forest.” He got to his paws. “I can’t wait to tell my 
Clanmates. Let’s meet tomorrow at Fourtrees. Bring your 
Clan. We can get to know each other.” 

“Sure, but—” she began, but Tigerstar was already 
bounding away. He was more excited than she’d imagined. 
His plan was finally becoming a reality. 

She fluffed out her fur. This would a fresh start. She’d be 
remembered for generations for what she’d decided here 
today. 

She stiffened. A shape was moving in the shadows 
beside the camp wall. She padded toward it, her pelt ruffling. 
“Who’s there?” 

As she tasted the air, Mudfur padded into the moonlight. 

“Were you listening?” Why did she feel guilty? She’d 
made a decision for her Clan. She was leader. 

“T heard everything.” His eyes were dark. “Are you sure 
you know what you’re doing?” 

“Of course,” she snapped. “Life is going to improve for 
RiverClan.” 

“I don’t trust Tigerstar,” Mudfur padded closer. “There's 
something dangerous about him.” 

“He just wants peace.” 

“By joining ShadowClan and RiverClan?” Mudfur 
sounded skeptical. “Won’t the other Clans see it as a 
challenge?” 

“If they do, they won’t dare fight us. We’ll be too 


strong.” 

“There are more important things than being strong,” 
Mudfur mewed. 

Leopardstar bit back anger. “Nothing’s more important 
than feeding the Clan.” 

Mudfur narrowed his eyes. “Will you be happy 
following Tigerstar’s orders?” 

“We will lead equally!” Leopardstar lasted her tail. 
“Tigerstar said we would.” 

Mudfur grunted. “Well, if Tigerstar says it, then that’s 
the way it will be, Isuppose.” 

“Stop twisting my words!” Leopardstar tried to keep her 
pelt smooth. “Have you forgotten your vision? It was you 
who said P'd save the Clan, and I’ve found a way to do it. 
You’re just finding problems.” 

“Joining with ShadowClan won’t save the Clan,” he 
mewed darkly. “It will destroy it.” 

“What makes you so sure?” she snapped. 

“He left ThunderClan and became leader of 
ShadowClan,” Mudfur mewed. “Don’t you think that's 
odd?” 

“Fireheart got in the way.” Leopardstar puffed out her 
chest. “Agreeing to lead ShadowClan was the only way left 
for himto bring change to the Clans.” 

“Do they need changing?” 

She couldn't believe he was asking. “Your Clanmates go 


hungry every time the river freezes or floods! That doesn’t 
have to happen now. / can see that. Tigerstar can see it. 
Why can’t you?” 

“I think all Tigerstar can see is power.” 

“You never trust any cat!” Leopardstar’s pelt bristled. 
“You’ve never trusted me!” 

“I wanted to,” he mewed. “I still want to.” 

“Then why are you questioning me? You told me Pd 
save the Clans. Let me save them!” 

The moon was high now and the sky indigo behind him. 
Mudfur’s eyes shone like water. “When I told you that 
you’d save the Clans, I believed it with my whole heart. But 
now...” His mew trailed away. 

But now? Leopardstar’s mouth grew dry. What was he 
saying? That he’d been wrong? That he’d stopped believing 
in her? She’d thought the plan to unite with ShadowClan 
would prove that she was the right leader for RiverClan once 
and for all, dispelling any doubts he’d had when she became 
deputy. But was he saying it was the opposite? 

All she’d ever wanted was for her father to believe in her. 
She’d tried so hard to impress him, and yet here they stood. 
Her heart seemed to crack, but she lifted her chin. “I’m 
leader,” she growled. “Not you. Perhaps you should hold 
your tongue before you say something we’ll both regret.” 
But it was too late for that. She wanted him to take back his 
words. She wanted him to say he’d been wrong, that he’d 


just spoken out of anger. 

Mudfur’s eyes darkened. “I’mnot the one who will have 
regrets,” he mewed sadly. “You are not the only one here 
who cares about RiverClan. As your medicine cat, I’m 
obliged to speak the truth of what StarClan tells me.” 

Leopardstar widened her eyes. Was he threatening her? 
Was he planning to undermine her in front of their 
Clanmates? “What does that mean?” she demanded. 

But he didn’t answer. Instead he dipped his head and 
padded back into camp. 


“Let all cats old enough to swim gather to hear my 
words.” Leopardstar stood in the middle of the clearing, the 
bright morning sun almost warm on her pelt. She’d barely 
slept. Mudfur’s words had echoed in her mind all night. 
Even when she had drifted off, she’d been woken by dreams 
where Mudfur had turned his back on her as the river had 
swept her away. 

She fluffed out her fur, trying to push back the weariness 
dragging at her bones. As her Clanmates gathered around 
her, she barely noticed them. She could only see Mudfur 
padding from the medicine den, herb flecks in his pelt, as he 
joined his Clanmates to listen. 

“Mudfur must leave us for a while.” Leopardstar ignored 
the surprised murmuring of the Clan. She kept her gaze fixed 
on her father. 

He stared back at her, his gaze giving nothing away. 


“We have lost too many cats to greencough over the 
moons,” she mewed. “Including Crookedstar. But I have 
heard rumors about loners who claim there is an herb that 
can cure greencough. It has rosy, round leaves, and it grows 
in cracks in the rocks in the mountains.” 

“What’s it called?” Sedgecreek was blinking at her 
eagerly. 

“I don’t know,” Leopardstar told her “But Pm sure 
Mudfur will recognize it when he sees it. I know he’ll find it. 
Imagine if we are able to find a cure for this terrible 
sickness.” 

Mosspelt flicked her tail happily. “No kit need die of it 
again!” 

“We will be spared at least one hardship,” Timberfur 
mewed. 

Cedarpelt looked anxiously at Mudfur. “Will you travel 
alone?” 

But Mudfur’s gaze was still on Leopardstar. “Will I?” he 
asked her. 

She dug her claws into the earth. She’d given him no 
warning that she was going to ask him to leave for a while, 
and she knew that their conversation yesterday must be 
fresh in his mind. Was he going to challenge her order in 
front of the Clan? “You will travel faster alone,” she mewed 
evenly. “And we can’t spare warriors now with prey scarce. 
Feeding our Clanmates is a priority.” 


Ottersplash frowned. “Why go now? Why not wait until 
newleaf?” she asked. “When the weather is better?” 

“Greencough strikes hardest in leaf-bare,” Leopardstar 
told her. “And I hear this herb is at its most potent now.” It 
was a lie, but it was necessary. There was no herb. She knew 
it and so did Mudfur. He was still watching her, his tail 
twitching. But he wasn’t going to argue. He would have 
already spoken. 

She had to get him out of the way while she and 
Tigerstar formed a Clan that would change the whole forest. 
She didn’t want Mudfur second-guessing every decision, 
planting doubt in her mind. Those days were gone. She was 
leader now, and she was going to lead without any cat’s 
interference. 





CHAPTER 31 
¥ 


“Thank you.” Leopardstar nodded to Stonefur as he 
dropped a rabbit at her paws. 

He eyed her warily and padded away, little more than a 
shadow in the twilight. Perhaps he sensed her distrust of 
him, or perhaps he was still uneasy about having 
Jaggedtooth and Boulder stay in the RiverClan camp. 

The two ShadowClan cats had been sent by Tigerstar to 
support her while her Clanmates grew accustomed to the 
new arrangement. But the two former rogues had done little 
to win the confidence of RiverClan, refusing to hunt or 
patrol with the other warriors, claiming instead that Tigerstar 
had ordered them to stay in camp to make sure it was safe 
from ThunderClan or WindClan aggression. 

The two burly toms sat apart from the Clan now, sharing 
a mouse and watching the RiverClan cats. Leopardstar had 
told her warriors that they were all Clanmates and that they 
should be grateful to have extra fighters in camp. Now that 
they were TigerClan, they could expect retaliation from 
ThunderClan and WindClan at any moment. 

Blackclaw and Reedtail seemed to appreciate their 
presence, and Skyheart too. The rest of the Clan seemed less 
certain, but since Jaggedtooth and Boulder had arrived, they 
had stopped questioning whether aligning with ShadowClan 


was wise. Leopardstar was relieved that she didn’t have to 
defend her decision anymore. It was for their own good; 
they would come to see that soon enough. Until they did, 
they had to admit there was plenty of prey now that they 
could hunt across Fourtrees and into ShadowClan land, not 
to mention make forays into ThunderClan and WindClan 
territory whenever they liked. 

Leopardstar glanced toward the entrance tunnel. 
Tigerstar would come soon. He usually came this time of day 
to check that the river warriors of TigerClan had enough 
prey, and Leopardstar always felt a little relieved to see him. 
She was reassured by his presence, more certain that she’d 
made the right choice in making RiverClan part of TigerClan. 

She heard paw steps beyond the reed wall and began to 
get to her paws, her nose twitching eagerly as she smelled 
Tigerstar’s scent. He padded through the tunnel but didn’t 
cross the camp to greet her as he usually did. Instead he 
flicked his tail toward her. “I have something to show you.” 
His eyes gleamed. “Come with me.” 

Stonefur lifted his muzzle. “Should I come, too?” 
Leopardstar knew that he didn’t trust the dark warrior, 
though he’d never said so out loud. 

Tigerstar glowered at the deputy. “This isn’t for half- 
Clan cats.” 

Stonefur looked away. The Clan knew now that his—and 
Mistyfoot’s—mother had been Bluestar. Stonefur had told 


them himself. Perhaps he’d guessed that Leopardstar had 
discovered their secret and decided it was safer to tell the 
truth than to have it told for him. 

“Are you coming, Leopardstar?” Tigerstar’s ears 
twitched impatiently. 

She got to her paws and stepped over the rabbit 
Stonefur had brought. It would keep. Her paws were itching 
with curiosity. What did Tigerstar want to show her? 

She had to hurry to catch up to himas he headed along 
the riverbank. “What is it?” she asked, falling in beside him. 

“Wait and see.” His tail was swishing. There was 
something on the tabby warrior’s mind. 

“Is everything okay?” she asked. 

He glanced at her. “Are you still planning to make 
Stonefur and Mistyfoot mentors to Featherkit and 
Stormkit?” 

He didn’t approve. But she was still a leader; she could 
make the final decision. She fluffed out her fur. “Yes.” 

“I think you’re taking a risk,” he grunted. “Letting half- 
Clan cats train other half-Clan cats is dangerous. If you put 
traitors together, they’ll encourage each other.” 

“They’re not traitors.” Leopardstar was wary of their 
ThunderClan blood, but she hadn’t seen any evidence of 
disloyalty. Indeed, they seemed to be trying hard to fit in 
among the river warriors. “If I show them trust, they’re more 
likely to support me.” 


“Do you need their support?” 

“I need the support of all my Clanmates,” Leopardstar 
told him. 

“You don’t win support by winning trust,” Tigerstar 
mewed. “You just show them what happens if they don’t 
support you.” 

She glanced at him, uneasy at the darkness in his 
expression. 

Carrion scent touched her muzzle as she padded beside 
Tigerstar through the fading light. It grew stronger as he led 
her past the water meadow to a wide, flat clearing among the 
reeds. The carrion scent was so strong here that her nose 
wrinkled. She narrowed her eyes. What was that heap at the 
far end? 

Tigerstar hurried toward it and stopped as he reached it. 
“I got the idea when Skyheart refused to eat her mouse.” 

Leopardstar followed, realizing with a start that it was a 
heap of bones. She frowned. Was this where ShadowClan 
had decided to throw their waste? “Isn’t there anywhere to 
dump trash on your territory?” 

Tigerstar’s hackles twitched. “It’s al! my territory now,” 
he growled. 

“It's all our territory,” Leopardstar corrected him. 

“Of course.” He glanced at her. “But this isn’t trash.” His 
swept his gaze over the pile of bones. It was a mound big 
enough to climb. “It’s a monument.” 


“What’s it for?” Leopardstar wasn’t sure it was wise to 
create a stinking heap so close to the island camp. 

“It's to remind our Clanmates to be grateful for their 
food,” he mewed. “One look at this pile will show them how 
much they’ve eaten and how lucky they are to be part of 
TigerClan.” 

Leopardstar had to admit that it was an impressive pile 
and that any cat who saw it would have to admit TigerClan 
ate well. But she couldn’t stop the shiver of surprise that ran 
down her spine as Tigerstar leaped on top of it and turned to 
stare at her. 

The bones shifted beneath his paws. A few tumbled 
down the sides, dislodged by his weight. 

“Its a good place to address the Clan.” He looked 
around the dark clearing. “From now on we should hold 
TigerClan meetings here.” 

Leopardstar narrowed her eyes. She had been wondering 
how they’d solve the problem of which camp to choose for 
Clan gatherings. 

He went on. “You said you were worried that whichever 
camp was chosen would show favor to that Clan,” he 
mewed. “This way, we favor neither.” 

Leopardstar felt a ripple of satisfaction. The bone pile 
was on former RiverClan land. 

Tigerstar looked around from the top of the pile, 
imposing against the darkening sky. “I can see over the reed 


beds too,” he mewed. “It will make a good place to look out 
for enemy attack.” 

Leopardstar shifted her paws. “Do you think WindClan 
and ThunderClan will attack?” 

“They must,” he mewed. “We’re stronger than they are 
now. They’ll need to weaken TigerClan if they’re to keep 
their borders and prey safe.” He bounded lightly from the 
bone pile and landed beside her. “Which means we must 
attack them first.” 

Leopardstar frowned. “Shouldn’t we talk to them first?” 
she mewed. “We might be able to persuade them to join us. 
There’d be no need to fight.” 

“Firestar is a leader now.” Tigerstar’s lip curled. “Do you 
think he will want to share power after fighting so hard to 
gain it?” 

Leopardstar knew he was right. “We might be able to 
persuade WindClan,” she mewed. 

Tigerstar grunted. “WindClan will do whatever 
ThunderClan tells themto do.” 

“Even now that Bluestar’s dead?” 

“Especially now that Bluestar’s dead.” Tigerstar’s eyes 
flashed. “Firestar will have made peace with Tallstar. They’re 
probably planning retaliation right now.” 

Leopardstar ignored the flutter of anxiety in her chest. 
“In that case, we must attack soon,” she mewed. “And we 
must attack both Clans at the same time.” 


“Ts that wise?” Tigerstar leaned closer, his ears pricking. 

“We must defeat them both with a single swipe,” 
Leopardstar told him. “If we attack WindClan alone, the 
survivors will go to ThunderClan. If we attack ThunderClan 
alone, the survivors will go to WindClan. But if we attack 
both Clans together, the survivors will have nowhere to go 
but TigerClan.” 

“I knew you were skilled at fighting, and brave”— 
Tigerstar dipped his head—“but I didn’t realize you were a 
strategist too.” 

Leopardstar puffed out her chest. “It just takes a little 
reasoning, that’s all.” 

His gaze drifted toward the reeds. “If we’re going to 
attack them both, we’ll need more cats.” 

“Perhaps we can persuade a few WindClan and 
ThunderClan warriors to turn on their leaders. Some of them 
might see that a single Clan will save them from a future of 
fighting and hunger.” She blinked at him expectantly. Would 
he be impressed by this idea too? 

There was a gleam in his eyes she hadn’t seen before. 
Her pelt ruffled self-consciously. 

He padded a little closer. “Why have you never taken a 
mate?” 

She felt warm. Was he flirting with her? “It was a 
choice,” she mewed. 

“Tt seems a shame.” 


“I wanted to dedicate my life to my Clan,” she told him. 
“Not to a single warrior. And I didn’t want to be tied down 
with kits.” She hesitated. “My Clanmates feel like my kin. I 
wanted to take care ofthemall, not just my own kits.” 

His breath touched her whiskers. “That sounds lonely.” 

“It wasn’t.” She paused. That hadn’t been true in recent 
moons. “Not to begin with, anyway. But I suppose, now that 
I’m leader, Pll always feel a little separate from my Clanmates. 
I’m different from them, I guess.” 

He held her gaze. “But not so different from me.” 

She looked away, her heart quickening. He understood 
her. “I don’t mind the loneliness. Although I miss 
Mudfur. .. .” She paused. Had she been right to send her 
father away? Even if she disagreed with him, she’d always 
felt a closeness to himthat came with truly being kin. 

Tigerstar leaned closer. “Mudfur?” 

“Tt doesn’t matter” She drew away. “I don’t mind 
loneliness, that’s all. It’s not important. What’s important is 
making my Clan as strong as it can possibly be.” 

Tigerstar was gazing at her wistfully. Then he sighed. “If 
only our timing had been different.” 

The fur around her neck prickled. 

He whisked his tail. “I should head back to the 
ShadowClan camp,” he mewed briskly. “I think I might know 
how we can get more cats to help us defeat both Clans at 
once.” 


“You do?” Leopardstar looked at him eagerly. “How?” 

“Let me look into it,” he mewed. “PI tell you later.” He 
padded past her. 

She watched him go, the fur twitching at the base of her 
tail. fonly our timing had been different. She was intrigued. 
Could there have been a future for her and Tigerstar? 
Perhaps there still could be. She pushed the thought away. 
Dont be mouse-brained. This is about your Clan, she told 
herself firmly. Not about you. 


The light snow that had fallen all morning had given way 
to afternoon sunshine, but the wind was still cold. The Clan 
was waiting for the apprentice ceremony to begin. Stonefur 
dipped his head to Leopardstar. “It’s the half-moon meeting 
for the medicine cats tonight. Should I meet them on their 
way to the Moonstone to tell them not to expect Mudfur? 
They might wonder why he hasn’t come.” 

Leopardstar eyed him sharply. “What would you say to 
them?” 

“That he’s looking for herbs.” 

“No.” Leopardstar’s tail twitched. The other medicine 
cats might realize she’d invented the story to get him away 
from the Clan. “Let’s wait to see what Mudfur brings back. I 
don’t want to get their hopes up.” 

“I hope he returns soon.” Stonefur seemed anxious 
today. “A Clan needs a medicine cat.” 

“We have Runningnose,” Leopardstar reminded him. 


“But he sleeps in the ShadowClan camp. If anything 
happened here, it would take too long to—” 

“There is no ShadowClan!” Leopardstar mewed curtly. 
“Only TigerClan.” 

“He’s still a long way away if there’s sickness here,” 
Stonefur pointed out. 

“Don’t meet trouble halfway.” Leopardstar turned away. 
Why was he always finding problems? Was it his way of 
criticizing her? She flexed her claws. Perhaps Tigerstar was 
right. Perhaps she shouldn’t trust him so much. She 
swallowed back irritation. 

TigerClan was stronger than ThunderClan and WindClan 
could ever be—and the strongest part of TigerClan was its 
river warriors. 

As pride swelled in her chest, the reed tunnel shivered. 
Leopardstar’s eyes widened in surprise as Tigerstar padded 
into camp. Blackfoot followed with a tom Leopardstar didn’t 
recognize. His pelt was black and he had one white paw, and 
although he was small, his icy blue eyes gleamed with a 
menace that made Leopardstar’s belly tighten. He was 
wearing a collar Was this a kittypet? Leopardstar looked 
closer. The collar was purple and studded with something 
that looked like teeth. Leopardstar shivered. Why had 
Tigerstar brought such a vicious-looking cat here? 

“Hey, Leopardstar.” Tigerstar’s pelt was fluffed out and 
his tail was high. 


Leopardstar met his gaze. “What are you doing here?” 

“I have to keep an eye on you. We all know that some of 
your warriors have . . . divided loyalties.” His gaze flicked 
over Stormpaw and Featherpaw. They glanced nervously at 
each other as he curled his lip with distaste. 

“T trust all of my Clanmates,” Leopardstar mewed curtly. 
He’d told her often enough how much he disapproved of her 
choice to allow half-Clan cats to remain part of TigerClan. 

Tigerstar padded into the clearing. Blackfoot and the 
other tom followed. As they neared, Leopardstar wrinkled 
her nose. They smelled of blood. Didn’t they have the 
decency to wash before coming here? 

She narrowed her eyes. “It’s a shame the river is frozen,” 
she mewed pointedly. “If you’d swum across the river, you 
wouldn’t have arrived reeking like a fresh-kill pile.” 

The unfamiliar tom’s eyes glittered with amusement. “I 
think your friend is objecting to the smell of rabbit blood,” 
he mewed. “Are all river cats so squeamish about warm- 
blooded prey?” 

Leopardstar met his gaze. “It’s not the warmth that’s 
offensive,’ she snapped. His muzzle and whiskers were 
stained red. “It’s that you’re covered in it. Don’t you know 
how to wash?” 

Tigerstar’s tail flicked ominously. “Show some courtesy 
to our friend.” 

Hes no friend of mine. Leopardstar kept the thought to 


herself. Tigerstar seemed belligerent. She didn’t want to 
provoke him. “Who is he?” she asked instead. 

“This is Scourge,” he mewed. “He’s offered to help out 
with our warrior shortage.” 

Scourge padded around Featherpaw and Stormpaw, 
eyeing them with interest. “I hear we have half-Clan warriors 
here,” he mewed. 

“They’re apprentices, not warriors.” Leopardstar felt a 
twinge of fear. Featherpaw and Stormpaw seemed suddenly 
vulnerable. “They’re too young to fight. They’ve not yet 
been given their warrior names.” 

Tigerstar snorted. “They’re no use to us anyway,” he 
sneered. “A patrol of foxes would be more trustworthy.” 

Featherpaw lifted her tail. “That’s not true!” she mewed. 
“We're as trustworthy as any RiverClan cat.” 

Tigerstar padded toward her. “Don’t you mean 
TigerClan?” 

Featherpaw backed away, her pelt rippling. “Of course,” 
she mewed quickly. “TigerClan.” 

Stonefur stepped in front of her and faced Tigerstar. 
“Featherpaw and Stormpaw are loyal Clanmates,” he mewed 
evenly. “As are Mistyfoot and I.” 

Tigerstar leaned toward him. “Loyal to whom?” he 
hissed. “TigerClan or ThunderClan?” 

Mistyfoot pushed in front of her brother. “TigerClan, of 
course.” 


Tigerstar looked amused. “Which makes you disloyal to 
ThunderClan.” He didn’t give her chance to respond but 
swept his gaze around the watching Clan. “That’s the 
trouble with half-Clan cats, they can only be halfloyal.” He 
stopped as his gaze reached Leopardstar. “Or perhaps they 
are completely loyal to ThunderClan.” He lashed his tail. 
“For all we know, Stonefur and Mistyfoot could be 
ThunderClan spies, and yet you let them train other half- 
Clans.” He flattened his ears. “Pm beginning to think I made 
a mistake aligning with a Clan that has almost as many spies 
as warriors among its ranks.” 

Timberfur padded forward, his pelt bristling. “There are 
no spies in RiverClan!” 

“TigerClan!” Tigerstar tumed on Leopardstar. “Why 
can’t your warriors even remember their new Clan name?” he 
spat. “Didn’t you explain to them who they follow now?” 

Cedarpelt padded to Timberfur’s side and glared at the 
tabby warrior. “Who are we supposed to be following?” he 
asked Tigerstar. “You?” His gaze flitted to Leopardstar. 
“Have you given up the leadership as well as everything 
else?” he asked her. 

Leopardstar’s heart began to race. Suddenly she felt as 
though she were grabbing at fish in a shoal and that her 
claws couldn’t hook any of them. Her hackles lifted. “I’ve 
given up nothing,” she snarled at Cedarpelt. She turned to 
Tigerstar. He was embarrassing her in front of her Clanmates. 


“Come with me!” She padded toward the reed tunnel and 
ducked out of camp, relieved when Tigerstar followed with 
Blackfoot and Scourge. 

The small black tom’s eyes gleamed as she stopped and 
glared at Tigerstar. 

Leopardstar forced her pelt to smooth. “Why are you 
acting like this?” Did he want to alienate half his Clan? 
“We’re supposed to be working together against WindClan 
and ThunderClan. Right now it feels more like you’re 
working against me!” 

Tigerstar narrowed his eyes. “I’m worried that you’ve 
become too much like Bluestar.” 

“Pmnothing like her!” 

“Really?” His muzzle wrinkled. “She let a kittypet deceive 
her into giving up her power. Now you’re letting half-Clan 
cats run the place.” 

“They don’t run the place!” 

“One of themis your deputy!” Tigerstar snapped. 

Stonefur ducked from the camp. He looked anxiously at 
Leopardstar. “Is everything okay?” 

“Everything’s fine,” she reassured him. 

Tigerstar thrust his muzzle toward the gray deputy. 
“You re lucky to be alive, half-Clan traitor!” 

The viciousness of his mew sent alarm sparking through 
Leopardstar’s pelt. Stonefur bristled, his eyes widening. The 
dark tabby had gone too far. 


“Stonefur.” She nodded to her deputy. “Go and see to 
Featherpaw. You should be training your apprentice.” 

But Stonefur was staring at Tigerstar. “I’m staying with 
you until he leaves,” he told her. “Pm Clan deputy. My first 
duty is my Clanmates’ protection.” 

“Pm your Clanmate now,” Tigerstar snarled. “And who 
says you’re deputy?” He glanced at Blackfoot. “TigerClan 
already has a deputy. Pd never appoint a mange-pelt like 
you.” 

Leopardstar’s tail bushed with outrage. “I didn’t agree to 
that!” 

Tigerstar looked at her. “Are you going to disagree?” 

She stiffened. She didn’t want to have this discussion in 
front of Stonefur. Or Scourge and Blackfoot. She nodded to 
Stonefur. “I can manage this,” she told him. “Go back to the 


camp 


73 


” 


eah, go on, half-Clan snake,” Blackfoot growled. “Go 
take care of your half-Clan apprentice.” 

Scourge sat down. He was clearly relishing Stonefur’s 
humiliation. 

Stonefur glanced at her. There was a question in his 
eyes. 

Leopardstar shifted her paws uncomfortably. She looked 
away. “Featherpaw will be waiting for you.” 

Stonefur turned, his tail lashing, and padded back into 
camp as Scourge and Blackfoot began to purr loudly. 


Leopardstar swung her muzzle toward Tigerstar. “You 
didn’t have to do that,” she growled. 

He frowned. “Why are you letting half-Clan cats tell you 
what to do?” he mewed. “Why are you even letting them 
stay? They’ll only make TigerClan weak.” 

Because they’re my Clanmates. She swallowed the 
words. If she broke her agreement with Tigerstar, RiverClan 
would stand alone against three hostile Clans. She had to 
appease him. He was just having a bad day. He admired her. 
He always had. He was just showing off in front of Scourge. 
He’d realize later how badly he’d behaved. “Let’s talk about 
something else,” she mewed. 

“I want to talk about this,” Tigerstar hissed. “I don’t 
want half-Clan cats weakening TigerClan. As long as there 
are half-Clan cats among our warriors, we are vulnerable. 
Stonefur clearly disapproves of our alliance. Can you be 
sure he hasn’t already turned to ThunderClan for help? 
Firestar might have given himorders to betray us.” 

Leopardstar’s belly tightened. She’d been betrayed 
before. Graystripe had turned on her in battle. His kits were 
still part of the Clan. Could they really be trusted? And what 
if Stonefur had turned to ThunderClan? He’d been 
complaining a lot lately. Her thoughts quickened. She had to 
make sure her Clan was safe. “Perhaps we could exile them.” 
Sending Mudfur away for a while had been useful. He 
hadn’t been able to make her doubt herself. If she sent 


Mistyfoot and Stonefur away with their apprentices, she’d 
be sure there were no traitors in the camp. Besides, 
Mistyfoot and Stonefur would be safer away from TigerClan. 
Tigerstar clearly wasn’t going to make their life easy. And 
Featherpaw and Stormpaw were still too young to stand up 
for themselves. If they all left, they’d be safe, and so would 
TigerClan. 

“Exile them?” Tigerstar snorted. “You want to send them 
straight into the paws of ThunderClan?” he went on. “With 
all of TigerClan’s secrets?” 

“What else can we do?” she mewed. 

“What else can we do?” Tigerstar glanced at Blackfoot 
and Scourge. They looked at each other knowingly as he 
looked back at her. “Can’t you guess?” 

Leopardstar felt a chill reached through her pelt. She 
fought to stop her tail from bushing. Was Tigerstar 
threatening Stonefur’s life? She’d thought, when he’d told 
the RiverClan deputy that he was lucky to be alive, that it 
had just been an empty threat meant to impress the others. 
But perhaps he’d meant it. Was he planning on killing 
Mistyfoot too, and Featherpaw and Stormpaw? 

She glanced at Scourge. This tom must be having a bad 
influence on Tigerstar. The tabby warrior had never spoken 
like this before. Unless I misjudged him. The thought made 
her breath catch. Had the icy determination she’d admired in 
Tigerstar simply been malice all along? 


“You can’t kill our Clanmates without my permission.” 
She kept her mew even, meeting Tigerstar’s gaze. It glittered 
back at her, but she went on. “We agreed to share all 
decisions, remember?” 

Tigerstar didn’t move, but his eyes gleamed like a 
snake’s. “You still think Ineed you, don’t you?” 

Her paws seemed to tum to stone. “You do,” she 
growled. 

“Really?” His mew dripped with disdain. “It seems to me 
that your cats don’t listen to you anymore. Why should I?” 

“They do listen!” 

“How many of them support your decision to join 
TigerClan?” 

“All of them.” She held her ground, even though she 
knew her Clanmates had been grumbling ever since she’d 
announced that RiverClan was going to become part of a 
bigger, stronger Clan. 

Tigerstar narrowed his eyes. “And yet even the elders 
defy you.” He sneered. “Have you given up the leadership 
as well as everything else?” he mewed, mimicking 
Cedarpelt. Leopardstar felt a rush of panic as he went on. “I 
think it’s clear who leads TigerClan,” he growled. “You might 
not be able to inspire your Clanmates’ loyalty, but I will.” 

“How?” She lifted her muzzle. If they didn’t agree with 
her, they certainly weren’t going to agree with Tigers tar. 

He leaned closer. “Fear.” The scent of blood on his 


muzzle was overwhelming. Leopardstar felt sick. “Your 
Clanmates will do anything I tell them because, if they don’t, 
they know what will happen to them. And I will start by 
imprisoning their half-Clan friends. And when they see you 
sit back and watch without lifting a paw, there won’t be a 
whisker of doubt about who’s really in charge here.” 

“Who says I won’t lift a paw?” Leopardstar only just 
managed to stop herself from trembling. 

“I do,” Tigerstar mewed. “And so do Blackfoot and 
Scourge and all the other warriors who would die for me if I 
ordered themto.” 

Leopardstar didn’t move. She felt as though she’d 
tumed to ice. He’d liked her. He’d respected her. She was 
sure he had. /fonly our timing had been different. What had 
changed since she’d spoken to him at the Bonehill? Why 
was he being like this? 

Before she could ask, he turned away. “We’ll be back to 
sort out your half-Clan problem soon,” he snarled. “It would 
be wise for you to back me up.” 


“Tve brought you a trout.” 

Leopardstar was dreaming. Warm sun bathed the 
RiverClan camp as her father carried a fish across the 
clearing. She raced to meet him, her kit fluff quivering with 
happiness as he laid it at her paws. 

“You’re going to grow up into the greatest warrior 
RiverClan has ever seen,” he purred, lapping her ears with 


his strong, rough tongue. 

She blinked at him excitedly. “I want to grow up soon,” 
she mewed. “I want to make you proud.” 

Her heart ached, even as she dreamed. She knew she 
would let him down, and she was filled with a longing to see 
him even though he was standing in front of her. “Don’t go 
away.” She brushed around him, rubbing her head against 
his shoulder. “I need you here.” 

“Pm still here,” he mewed. But as he spoke, a dark 
shadow flitted across the camp. 

Leopardstar looked up and saw a hawk circling above 
them. 

“Run!” Mudfur yowled. 

But the hawk had dropped into a dive. It was swooping 
toward her and Mudfur, its shadow growing until darkness 
covered them both. 

“It's too late,” she shrieked. “Its too late!” 

She woke with a start, swallowing back a yowl of panic. 
The fear sparked by the dream lingered as she leaped to her 
paws and shook out her pelt. Night had fallen. She’d only 
meant to sleep for a few moments. She pushed her way from 
her den. The clearing lay empty in the moonlight. The dens 
were silent. Where had every cat gone? For a moment she 
wondered if her Clan had deserted her. Then she saw 
Skyheart gazing from the nursery. 

“They’ve gone to the Bonehill,” the queen told her, her 


eyes wide and dark. “Darkstripe and Blackfoot rounded them 
up like kits and marched them out of camp. They said 
Tigerstar had called a meeting.” 

“Why didn’t they fetch me?” Dread tugged in 
Leopardstar’s belly. 

Skyheart stared at her. “I don’t know.” 

Leopardstar raced toward the entrance, her heart 
quickening. She had a sudden kitlike notion that he could fix 
this. He could bring sense to it all. But how? 

She ran through the entrance tunnel and hurried into the 
moonlight beyond. As she neared the Bonehill, she could 
hear snarling, and ahead she saw the willow tree where 
Stonefur, Mistyfoot, Featherpaw, and Stormpaw were being 
held prisoner, barricaded by branches threaded among its 
tangled roots. Darkstripe—the ThunderClan deserter—and 
Jaggedtooth dragged Featherpaw and Stormpaw out. 
Stonefur watched from the path, as stiff as prey, while 
Mistyfoot still crouched, half-hidden by shadow, in the 
prison. 

“Are they all right?” she yowled. “You’re hurting them!” 

“They’re alive, aren’t they?” Jaggedtooth snarled. 

“For now,” Darkstripe growled as he pushed Stormpaw 
along the path toward the Bonehill clearing. 

Jaggedtooth grabbed Featherpaw’s scruff and dragged 
her after them. 

Mistyfoot blinked at Stonefur “Why don’t you fight 


them?” 

Stonefur shook his head. He looked helpless, and 
Leopardstar realized how thin her deputy had grown. His 
pelt was tattered, his nose scratched. “They’d take it out on 
the ’paws,” he murmured. Slowly, he headed after the 
TigerClan toms. 

Leopardstar was beginning to feel that she’d lost 
control. That Tigerstar had become more of a fox-heart than 
she’d ever imagined was possible. But she wanted 
desperately to believe there had a been a reason—that there 
was still hope for TigerClan to fix more than it was breaking. 

“They’re half-Clan cats,” Leopardstar mewed to herself. 
“ThunderClan will use them against us. It’s better for them 
and for us if they’re gone.” 

She lifted her chin as she padded past Darkstripe and 
Jaggedtooth. They’d stopped outside the clearing with 
Featherpaw and Stormpaw. Leopardstar avoided looking at 
them. 

“Is this really what you want?” Stonefur growled as she 
passed. 

“Be quiet!” Jaggedtooth raked him with a vicious swipe, 
but Stonefur didn’t even yelp. 

Crossing the clearing, Leopardstar saw Tigerstar on the 
Bonehill. His eyes gleamed as he saw her. “Leopardstar.” He 
sounded surprised. “You’re awake. How lucky. Come and 
join us.” 


Blackfoot was standing on one side of the great pile of 
bones and she walked toward the other side, ignoring the 
gazes of her Clanmates even though they felt like fire on her 
pelt. They were ringed around the clearing, among 
Tigerstar’s rogue warriors, like prey caught in a trap. 

The dark warrior waited for Leopardstar to take her place 
among the scattered bones, then lifted his muzzle. “It’s time 
for the trial to begin!” he yowled. “Fetch the prisoners.” 

Trial? Leopardstar glanced at Tigerstar. This seemed like 
a cruel way to exile the half-Clan cats. Did he have to 
humiliate them like this? Perhaps he only wanted to deter 
other cats from betraying the Clan.... 

At his call, Jaggedtooth dragged Stonefur into the 
clearing. A moment later, Darkstripe herded Featherpaw and 
Stormpaw in. 

“Cats of TigerClan,” Tigerstar mewed. “You all know the 
hardships that we have to face. The cold of leaf-bare 
threatens us. Twolegs threaten us. The other Clans in the 
forest, who have not realized yet the wisdom of joining with 
TigerClan, are a threat to us.” 

Leopardstar’s heart was pounding so loudly in her ears 
that she could barely hear Tigerstar’s words. 

“Bluestar and Graystripe of ThunderClan both flouted 
the warrior code when they took mates from RiverClan. The 
kits from such a union, like the ones you see in front of you 
now, can never be trusted.” 


Leopardstar swallowed. It was better, she reminded 
herself, to drive the half-Clan cats out now, before they had 
a chance to betray them. But she would have chosen a 
quieter way to banish them. She wished Tigerstar would 
hurry up. She wanted this to be over. 

Stonefur was glaring at Tigerstar even though he looked 
like he could hardly stand up. Why was he so weak? She’d 
ordered the prisoners to be fed while they were in captivity. 
Had Tigerstar countermanded her orders? Anger twitched 
through her fur. This isn t my fault. 

“No cat has ever questioned my loyalty,’ Stonefur 
snarled. “Come down here and tell me to my face that I’m a 
traitor!” 

Tigerstar ignored him, glaring at Leopardstar instead. 
“You showed poor judgment when you chose this cat as 
your deputy,” he growled. “RiverClan is choked by the 
weeds of treachery, and we must root them out.” His eyes 
burned with fury. Leopardstar dropped her gaze. Why didn’t 
he just hurry up and banish them instead of humiliating her 
in front of her Clan? 

Tigerstar turned his attention back to Stonefur. “I will 
give you a chance to show your loyalty to TigerClan,” he 
told him. “Kill these two half-Clan apprentices.” 

Leopardstar’s blood ran cold. He’d threatened to kill the 
half-Clan cats, but that had been in front of Scourge. When 
he hadn’t mentioned it again, she’d convinced herself he’d 


only been showing off. She fought back dread. How could 
he make Stonefur kill his own apprentice? Stormpaw and 
Featherpaw might be Graystripe’s kits and the reason 
Silverstream was dead, but they didn’t deserve this. Nor did 
Stonefur. Did Tigerstar really believe this was how the Clan 
would become strong? 

“Kill them,” Tigerstar told Stonefur. 

Stonefur turned to Leoparstar. “I take orders from you,” 
he growled. “You must know this is wrong. What do you 
want me to do?” 

Leopardstar’s mouth went dry. What do you want me to 
do? What could she say? 

“These are difficult times,” she replied finally, struggling 
to keep her voice steady. “As we fight for survival we must 
be able to count on every one of our Clanmates. There is no 
room for divided loyalties. Do as Tigerstar tells you.” 

She forced herself to keep her composure, but she could 
hardly breathe, watching him. 

Something had changed inside Stonefur. She’d 
disappointed him. He took in a deep breath and turned to 
face the apprentices, who cowered in fear. 

After what seemed like an eternity, Stormfur spoke. 
“You'll have to kill me first, Tigerstar.” 

Tigerstar’s tail twitched with menace. He signaled to 
Darks tripe. “Kill him.” 

Horror shrilled through Leopardstar as Darkstripe leaped 


at Stonefur. She could hardly breathe as she watched 
Stonefur fight fiercely against the cruel tabby. Though half- 
starved and beaten, he managed to haul Darkstripe to the 
ground and dig his claws into the warrior’s throat. 

Kill him! Leopardstar found herself willing Stonefur on. 

“Finish it.” Tigerstar flicked his ears at Blackfoot, and his 
deputy shot forward and dragged Stonefur off Darkstripe. 
Together, the vicious warriors turned on the RiverClan 
deputy, and as Darkstripe held him down, Blackfoot scored 
his claws across Stonefur’s throat. 

Stonefur struggled, then fell still, his blood staining the 
ground. 

Leopardstar struggled not to sway on her paws. 
Tigerstar couldn’t see that she was disgusted. Ifshe showed 
weakness, who knew what he might do. 

This is wrong. Every hair on Leopardstar’s pelt suddenly 
quivered with horror. What have I done? She stood like 
stone as Jaggedtooth dragged Featherpaw and Stormpaw 
back to their prison and the others headed silently back to 
their camps. What have I let RiverClan become? And yet it 
was too late. She’d taken a path with no way back. With a 
groan, she dropped to her belly. How could she have made 
such a mistake? 





CHAPTER 32 
¥ 


Leopardstar watched dawn light filtering through the 
trailing moss at her den entrance. She’d slept for a while, but 
she’d heard that Mudfur had returned at sunset, and she’d 
dreamed only of the horrified reaction he would have when 
she told him what had happened at Bonehill. In her dreams, 
there had been such sorrow in his eyes that she’d wished 
she’d died instead of Stonefur. Perhaps she had, as far as 
Mudfur was concerned. Perhaps the Leopardstar he’d 
known and loved had ceased to exist. She hadn’t the 
courage to get up and tell him the truth. She hadn’t wanted 
to hear what he might say. Instead she’d stayed in her own 
den and curled up in her nest, numb to everything but grief. 
Let him hear it from some other cat. 

She heard her Clanmates stirring outside. They’d be 
wondering where to patrol, and who should go. Without 
Stonefur, they’d be unsure. Leopardstar knew she should go 
and speak to them, but her pelt felt as heavy as stone. 

“Take a patrol to the shore.” Timberfur’s mew sounded 
from the clearing. “Blackclaw.” The elder sounded brisk. “It’s 
a little warmer today. See if you can break the ice near the 
gorge. You might be able to fish there.” 

“Who shall I take?” Blackclaw asked. 

“Any cat who wants to join you.” 


Ottersplash called out to Timberfur. “Shall I take a border 
patrol out?” 

“Not today,” Timberfur mewed. “We’re not ready to 
fight.” 

Tigerstar’s mew rang across the camp. “Not ready to 
fight?” 

Leopardstar sat up sharply. She scrambled from her nest 
but couldn’t force herself outside. 

“You'll fight if I tell you to, you bunch of fish-brains!” 
Tigerstar sounded angry. “Haven’t you noticed the 
prisoners have escaped?” 

No cat answered. Leopardstar’s heart pounded. Did 
Tigerstar hold her responsible for her Clanmates’ escape? 
She recoiled as Tigerstar burst into her den. 

“Didn’t you post a guard at the prison?” He thrust his 
muzzle in her face. 

“Jaggedtooth said that only ShadowClan warriors 
should guard it.” 

Tigerstar closed his eyes and seemed to take a moment 
to control himself. Leopardstar’s forced her paws to stop 
trembling. 

When he opened them again, he glared at her. “We’re 
attacking WindClan today,” he snarled. “We’re going to 
send a message that there’s no future outside TigerClan. 
They join me or we drive them from their land.” 

“Just WindClan?” She blinked at him. “I thought we 


were going to attack WindClan and ThunderClan at the same 
time,” she mewed. “That’s what we decided.” 

“The plan has changed,” he snapped. “We have to move 
fast.” 

Leopardstar forced herself to meet his gaze. She had to 
stand up to him “You can’t change plans without 
consulting me.” 

“Can’t I?” Tigerstar leaned close. “What are you going 
to do about it? Set your Clanmates on me? What do you 
think my warriors will think of that? You’ve met them, right? 
You know what they’re capable of.” 

Leopardstar swallowed. 

Tigerstar sat back on his haunches, his tone softening. 
“Are you going to help me or not?” 

Leopardstar felt sick. Who knew what he would do if she 
refused? “PI help,” she mewed quietly. 

“Good.” 

“But my warriors are grieving,” she mewed. “You can’t 
expect them to fight at their best.” 

Tigerstar’s tail twitched. “Grieving?” 

Did he really not understand? “They watched Stonefur 
die yesterday.” 

“They watched me save them from a traitor.” Tigerstar’s 
eyes glittered in the half-light. “They wouldn’t have seen 
anything if you hadn’t made a half-Clan cat your deputy. 
How can any warrior have faith in a leader who makes such 


dangerous decisions? Stonefur might have betrayed you all. 
ThunderClan was probably waiting for his signal. Your 
Clanmates are lucky I stepped in. From now on, Pll be 
making the decisions for TigerClan. You can’t be trusted.” 

“That’s not what we agreed!” Leopardstar’s hackles 
lifted. She couldn’t let him take over. She slitted her eyes. “I 
am joint leader of TigerClan,” she hissed. 

The moss shivered as Blackfoot slid through. Darkstripe 
followed him. Silently, the two warriors stood beside 
Tigerstar and glared at her, the fur bristling around their 
necks. 

Her heart seemed to stop beating. Their eyes gleamed 
with violence. She understood that Tigerstar had brought 
them in to show her they’d kill her if she opposed them. 
Who would protect her Clanmates then? She backed away. 
“Okay,” she mewed. “Whatever you say.” 

Tigerstar’s tail whipped the air behind him. “Good,” he 
growled. “I’m glad to hear it. We attack WindClan at 
sunhigh. Bring a battle patrol and meet me at the WindClan 
border.” 

He turned and pushed his way from the den. Darkstripe 
eyed her menacingly, then followed, Blackfoot at his tail. 

Panic pressed at the edge of her thoughts. She wanted 
to talk to Mudfur. He must have heard the truth by now, but 
what would he say except J told you so? And Stonefur was 
gone. Which of her warriors could she depend on? She’d let 


them down. She’d led them into dangerous water and she 
had no idea how to get them out. They must hate her. 
She closed her eyes. What had she done? 


At least Scourge seemed to have disappeared. 
Leopardstar lifted her chin as she led her warriors to the 
WindClan border. She hadn’t seen the vicious tom since 
Tigerstar had brought him to her camp. Perhaps Tigerstar 
had decided not to use himas an ally after all. Did that mean 
there was still a chance to oppose Tigerstar’s warriors? But 
did her warriors still trust her enough to follow her in an 
uprising against their new leader? 

She glanced at them. When she’d announced the attack 
on WindClan, no cat had spoken. Loudbelly had eyed her 
uncertainly, but dropped his gaze when she met it. 
Ottersplash and Vixenleap had glanced anxiously at each 
other. Reedtail had only stared blankly ahead. After 
Stonefur’s death, her Clanmates clearly had no stomach for 
battle. 

She pushed the memory away. All she had to do was get 
them through the fight with WindClan with as few injuries as 
possible. 

She paused as she neared the WindClan border, glancing 
around at her patrol. “Remember,” she hissed, her mew 
hushed in case Tigerstar and his allies were nearby, “stay 
out of danger. Let Tigerstar’s warriors do most of the 
fighting. I want you all home in one piece.” She looked at 


each of her Clanmates in turn, her heart sinking as they 
stared at the ground, their pelts twitching as though they 
wanted to shrink beneath them. Shame washed her pelt. 
She’d wanted to believe that when TigerClan attacked 
WindClan and ThunderClan, they would create one strong 
Clan that never went hungry and worked together in 
harmony. But it was all going wrong. She’d trusted the 
wrong cat. She was forcing her warriors into a dishonorable 
fight and they knew it. 

Loudbelly’s gaze flashed nervously toward the bracken 
lining the border. As she followed it, Tigerstar padded out 
and glared at her. “Are you coming?” he snarled. Sunlight 
made his pelt gleamas he lashed his tail. 

Leopardstar flicked a signal to her warriors with her tail 
and headed toward him, her belly churning with dread. She 
had ordered the apprentices to stay behind. She wasn’t 
risking them in this battle, no matter what Tigers tar said. 

Tigerstar’s patrol was waiting beyond the bracken. They 
were pacing on the grass, their ears twitching excitedly. 
Tigerstar watched as Leopardstar’s warriors lined up beside 
them. She was relieved when he didn’t seem to notice that 
there were no apprentices in their ranks. 

“The battle must be fast,” the dark warrior growled. 
“And it must hurt. WindClan is bound to send for help, the 
mouse-hearts. We have to be out before ThunderClan 
arrives, but we must leave WindClan in no doubt as to what 


they will suffer if they continue to defy me.” 

Leopardstar glanced at her Clanmates, relieved to see 
them lift their chins and square their shoulders. Tigerstar had 
to believe they wanted this. If he didn’t, she was sure there 
would be reprisals. 

They crossed the moor swiftly and chased away the two 
WindClan guards so easily that, when they entered the 
camp, the Clan was unprepared for their attack. 

Leopardstar glanced at Blackclaw as they hurried after 
Tigerstar. Had he remembered her orders? Relief swamped 
her as he hung back and let Tigerstar’s warriors charge 
ahead. Vixenleap and Sedgecreek fanned out with Loudbelly, 
Beetlenose, and Wleclaw, keeping to the edges of the battle 
as Tigerstar’s warriors hurled themselves, hissing, at 
WindClan. 

WindClan met them, claws flashing, at the center of the 
wide, grassy clearing. Screeches filled the air as Leopardstar 
pushed her way into the melee. Tigerstar had to see her in 
the thick of the fight. Then he might not notice her warriors 
staying on the fringes. 

She ducked beneath a WindClan warrior’s belly, heaving 
him away with a sharp thrust, relieved to see that she was 
the only RiverClan warrior deep in the battle. 

A WindClan she-cat glared at her. Hatred gleamed in her 
amber gaze as she flung herself at Leopardstar. The lithe 
tabby she-cat slammed into her, the ferocity of the attack 


taking Leopardstar by surprise. The tabby gripped her pelt 
and knocked her hind paws from under her with a nimble 
kick that sent Leopardstar thumping onto her side. Pain 
arched like lightning through Leopardstar’s belly as the 
WindClan warrior churned it with her hind claws. She 
struggled free, lashing out with her forepaws and landing a 
powerful blow on the tabby’s cheek. More claws hooked her 
from behind and dragged her backward into a knot of 
writhing pelts. She flattened her ears and slitted her eyes as 
claws sliced the air around her. Fur flashed at the edges of 
her vision, and she felt her pelt tear as paws grabbed at her 
and dragged her deeper into the fight. She hit out, not sure 
who she was fighting, relieved when she ripped free and 
found her paws. Pushing herself up, she lunged, using her 
power against the WindClan warriors’ agility, slashing and 
swiping as warriors shrieked around her. Survive. The word 
echoed in her mind. Survive. That was all she needed to do. 

Claws raked her muzzle, and she ducked away and 
lashed out, jerking around to aim a blow at the warrior 
pulling at her tail. She ripped it free and sent the warrior 
reeling with a blow that sliced his ear and left blood beneath 
her claws. 

“Finish it!” Tigerstar yowled to his warriors. The snarls 
and shrieks around Leopardstar hardened. Then the battle 
began to ease. The WindClan cats were scattering to the 
edges of their camp. They crouched, trembling and bloody, 


beneath the heather wall. Leopardstar straightened, 
scanning the battlefield for her Clanmates, relieved when she 
saw them hanging back as Tigerstar’s warriors clawed and 
hissed at the last of WindClan’s fighters. A moment later, the 
camp was silent. 

Tigerstar stood at the center of the clearing and looked 
around, triumph glittering in his eyes as he surveyed the 
bleeding and ragged WindClan cats. He was holding a 
young WindClan apprentice, pinning him to the ground with 
a single massive paw. 

“Gorsepaw!” A WindClan she-cat whimpered from the 
edge of the clearing as she stared in horror at the young tom 
in Tigerstar’s grip. 

Tallstar’s black-and-white pelt was torn and covered in 
dust. He faced Tigerstar from the head of the clearing. “Let 
him go!” 

Tigerstar stared back at Tallstar as Blackfoot padded 
around the WindClan leader, scorn twisting his lip. 
Darkstripe walked slowly around the camp, snarling at any 
WindClan warrior who dared to meet his eye. 

“He’s an apprentice, for StarClan’s sake!” Tallstar 
growled. 

Tigerstar eyed the WindClan leader. He leaned down and 
hissed something softly into the WindClan apprentice’s ear. 
Then his eyes lit with cold fury and he slashed his claws 
across the young tom’s trembling neck. Blood spurted from 


the wound, and with a screech, the apprentice jerked and 
twisted and then fell still. 

As Tallstar’s eyes widened with shock, the WindClan 
she-cat who’d whimpered before wailed in horror, her cry 
echoing over the camp. 

Leopardstar felt dizzy. Her mind whirled. Stonefur’s final 
growl as he tried to fight Blackfoot and Darkstripe still rang 
in her ears. And now an innocent apprentice is dead. Would 
Tigerstar ever stop killing? She glanced at Blackclaw, then at 
Vixenleap, and then around at the rest of her Clanmates. 
They all watched the dark warrior with same expression of 
fear. 

“I have a message for Firestar when he gets here,” 
Tigerstar snarled. His gaze fixed on Tallstar. “Tell him to meet 
me, with WindClan, at Fourtrees tomorrow at sunhigh. I’m 
tired of waiting. I want his decision about joining TigerClan.” 
He lifted Gorsepaw’s lifeless body with a claw. “Ifhe refuses, 
he knows what to expect.” 


Tigerstar’s jubilation as they trekked back across the 
moor made Leopardstar feel sick. He crowed with Blackfoot 
and Darkstripe about how easy WindClan had been to beat. 

“We should have killed more of them,” he mewed as he 
pushed through the heather. “It would’ve saved us the 
trouble of killing them tomorrow.” 

“Do you think Firestar will turn you down?” Darkstripe 
asked eagerly. 


“At first,” he mewed. 

At the border, Leopardstar told him that her warriors 
must return to the river camp so that Mudfur could deal with 
their wounds. She was relieved when he didn’t object and 
led his own warriors toward the pine forest. 

Cedarpelt got to his paws as she led the battle patrol into 
camp. Dawnpaw hurried across the clearing to meet 
Mosspelt, falling in beside her and sniffing at her wounds as 
she lay down, exhausted, beside the sedge wall. 
Primrosepaw, Pikepaw, and Reedpaw stayed close to the 
apprentices’ den. Their eyes glittered with worry. They knew 
Mistyfoot had escaped with Featherpaw and Stormpaw, but 
they would not relaxuntil they knew their mother was safe. 

“What happened?” Cedarpelt blinked at her. 

“Tigerstar left WindClan with an ultimatum for Firestar,” 
she told him. “He wants to meet ThunderClan and WindClan 
at Fourtrees tomorrow at sunhigh.” 

Timberfur padded froward. “Are we going too?” 

Leopardstar couldn’t meet his gaze. “Yes.” What choice 
did she have? If she didn’t support Tigerstar, Primrosepaw 
or Pikepaw could be the ones lying dead in their own camp. 

Mudfur hurried from the medicine den, cobwebs and 
herbs dangling between his jaws. His eyes met hers, and he 
stared at her for a moment, more disappointment in his gaze 
than Leopardstar could bear. As Leopardstar sat down, her 
heart so heavy that she wondered how it could still beat, he 


padded past her and began checking on his Clanmates. 

Leopardstar closed her eyes. She felt as though she’d 
been pushed deep underwater and she couldn’t find the 
surface. Time seemed to slow as she listened to the soft 
murmuring of her Clanmates. They must wish Crookedstar 
had never made her deputy. She shuddered. Mudfur had 
been right from the beginning. She was not cut out to be a 
leader. Her Clan was in tatters, and soon her Clanmates 
would be no more than Tigerstar’s minions. 

It was no good. She had to talk to Mudfur. No matter 
what he might say. At the very least, she had to confess 
she’d been wrong. 

She opened her eyes. The afternoon had drifted into 
evening and she’d barely noticed. Her Clanmates were still 
licking their wounds at the edges of the camp. She got to her 
paws and headed for the medicine den. Bracing herself, she 
pushed through the moss at the entrance. 

The air was pungent with herb scents. Sedgecreek and 
Vixenleap were sitting beside the nests. They glanced at her 
as she padded in. 

“Hi, Leopardstar,” Sedgecreek mewed. 

Leopardstar felt a flicker of surprise. The brown tabby 
sounded friendly. “How are you?” she asked. 

“TIl be fine in a day or two,” Sedgecreek mewed. 

“Just a few scratches,” Vixenleap told her. 

Mudfur padded from the shadows at the back of the den. 


“Tve treated them,” he mewed. “They can go back to their 
den.” 

Sedgecreek dipped her head to the medicine cat. 
“Thanks, Mudfur.” 

“Thanks.” Vixenleap blinked at him gratefully and the 
two warriors left the den. 

Leopardstar held her breath as Mudfur looked at her. 
What could he possibly say to her that she hadn’t already 
said to herself? She’d been wrong. She’d been stupid and 
gullible. She’d destroyed the very Clan she’d wanted to 
save. She met his gaze, trying not to tremble. 

“You did well to tell the patrol to hold back,” he mewed. 
“No one was badly wounded. There were only a few bites 
and scratches.” 

He was being kind. Her throat tightened. She wanted to 
bury her nose in his soft neck fur as she’d done when she 
was a kit. “I’m sorry,” she mewed huskily. “I should have 
listened to you.” 

“Yes,” he mewed. “You should have. But you’ve always 
thought you knew best and rushed in without thinking.” 

She hung her head, almost relieved by his reproach. She 
deserved it. She’d put her Clan in terrible danger. She’d 
gotten Stonefur killed. 

“What are you going to do about it?” 

She lifted her head, surprised by Mudfur’s question. 
“What can I do?” 


“You were born to save RiverClan.” 

She shook her head. “Don’t you see? Your vision was 
wrong,” she mewed. She’d given up so much to follow it. 
She could have become Frogleap’s mate. He might have 
lived. They could have had kits by now. “It was just a dream 
you had. It was never going to come true. I was dumb to 
believe it.” 

He looked at her steadily. “Are you blaming me for 
setting you on this path?” 

“No,” she mewed quickly, alarmed that he thought she 
would. “It's all my fault. Pve done everything wrong.” 

“T still believe my vision.” 

Leopardstar stared at him. “How can you? Pve failed. 
I’ve destroyed everything. There's no RiverClan left. Only 
TigerClan, and it's .. .” She swallowed. “It’s evil.” 

“What are you going to do about that?” 

That question again. She looked at him. Were there bees 
in his brain? 

“There's nothing I can do,” she mewed miserably. “It’s 
hopeless.” 

“Who’s going to stop Tigerstar if you don’t?” Mudfur 
mewed. 

“No cat can stop him.” 

“Some cat must.” He hadn’t moved. “Do you remember 
exactly what my vision was?” 

How could she forget? “Brightsky told you to take care 


of me because I'd be important one day,” she mewed. 

“Yes,” he mewed. “She said that one day you’d be 
important, not just to RiverClan, but to all the Clans.” 

Leopardstar stared at him helplessly. Not only had she 
let down her own Clan, she’d let down all the Clans. “I’ve 
failed every cat.” Her mew caught in her throat. 

“Not yet, you haven’t.” Mudfur padded closer and 
looked at her intently. “Tigerstar was always going to 
threaten the Clans. If he hadn’t used you, he’d have used 
some other cat. He was always the reckoning the Clans were 
going to have to face.” He blinked at her. “Don’t make them 
face it alone,” he mewed. “Help them.” 

“Help them?” 

“Yes,” he mewed. “You have to.” 

She looked at him, surprised to see affection still in his 
eyes. After everything she’d done, he still had faith in her. 

She could do this. She had to. She tried to concentrate. 
What if ThunderClan and WindClan werent her enemies? 
What if they were her allies? “We could all beat Tigerstar 
together,” she mewed. 

His eyes brightened. “Tigerstar has done nothing to earn 
your loyalty.” 

She nodded. “I’m only following him now so that he 
doesn’t hurt my Clanmates.” 

“But ifhe were gone, he couldn’t hurt them.” 

Her heart lifted. “If I help ThunderClan and WindClan 


defeat him, he could never hurt RiverClan again.” 

Mudfur’s purr seemed to warm the air around her. 

She sat down and tucked her tail over her paws, thinking 
hard. “Tigerstar wants a battle tomorrow, and he thinks 
RiverClan will be on his side.” She looked excitedly at 
Mudfur. “But what if we’re not? What ifhe has to face three 
Clans and not one?” 

“Then he’ll lose.” Mudfur swished his tail. “You’ll be the 
one who decides the fate ofthe Clans. They are depending 
on you.” 





CHAPTER 33 
Se 


“Remember,” Leopardstar hissed softly to Blackclaw. “Once 
the battle starts, fight ShadowClan, not ThunderClan.” 

He nodded, his gaze flashing toward Tigerstar. 

“What are you whispering about?” Tigerstar glared at 
Leopardstar, his eyes glittering with distrust. 

She lifted her head. “Do you want to win this battle or 
not?” She didn’t wait for an answer. “If you do, you need to 
let me speak to my warriors.” 

He grunted and turned away, giving his own warriors 
instructions. “Start fighting when I tell you.” 

TigerClan was ranged across the top of the Fourtrees 
hollow. Above them, heavy gray clouds threatened rain. 
Leopardstar kept close to her RiverClan warriors, leaving 
distance between them and Tigerstar, Blackfoot, and 
Darkstripe. Tigerstar’s warriors stood like stones around 
him, their dark pelts ruffling in the stiff breeze and their 
ragged ears twitching as they waited for the order to 
advance down the slope. They still bore the wounds of the 
previous day’s battle with WindClan, and Leopardstar 
wondered how WindClan’s warriors were doing after 
TigerClan’s vicious assault. Would they be strong enough 
to fight again? They might not even dare tum up. 

Jaggedtooth and Boulder stood among the other forest 


warriors. Their days on the island had made them no more 
loyal to their river Clanmates; even now they were eyeing 
Loudbelly and Heavystep as though they were as much the 
enemy as ThunderClan and WindClan. Turning on them 
when the battle started would be easy, Leopardstar thought 
with relish. 

“Tell the apprentices to stay close to the slope and away 
from the thick of battle,” she whispered to Blackclaw. 

“Il already have,” he murmured under his breath. 

Dawnpaw, Primrosepaw, Pikepaw, and Reedpaw were 
shifting nervously beside their mentors. This would be their 
first battle. Leopardstar felt a pang of regret. She hoped their 
next would be more honorable. She wanted to see them fight 
for RiverClan, not for Tigerstar. Longing tugged in 
Leopardstar’s belly. All she wanted was RiverClan back and 
for her Clan to be healthy and safe. 

Tigerstar looked down the slope. “Any sign of Firestar 
and his mouse-hearted friends?” 

Darks tripe tasted the air. “I can’t smell them.” 

Tigerstar glanced at the sky. The sun was piercing the 
thick cloud, high overhead. “He should be here by now.” 

“Perhaps he’s not coming,” Blackfoot mewed. 

Leopardstar stiffened. What if ThunderClan and 
WindClan decided not to respond to Tigerstar’s ultimatum? 
Would RiverClan have to endure Tigerstar until they did? 

“Firestar’s probably trembling in his den like prey,” 


Darkstripe sneered. 

Blackclaw narrowed his eyes and stared at Tigerstar. 
“ThunderClan and WindClan are good fighters. Are you 
sure we can beat them?” 

“Yes.” The dark warrior’s eyes were already gleaming 
with triumph. “Because we won’t be fighting alone.” He 
signaled with a flick of his tail, and the bracken on the rim of 
the hollow nearby shivered. 

Leopardstar stiffened as Scourge padded into the open. 
The teeth on his kittypet collar glinted as, around him, more 
cats emerged from the bushes. Her heart sank. 

“Don’t you remember I said we’d need help if we took on 
ThunderClan and WindClan at the same time?” He looked at 
Leopardstar. “RiverClan isn’t as strong as Pd hoped, so 
Scourge has provided enough warriors to destroy 
ThunderClan and WindClan forever.” Cats were still padding 
from between the bushes. They crowded the top of the 
slope, too many to count. They looked skinny, their fur 
ragged, but Leopardstar could sense strength in their wiry 
limbs. Their eyes glittered with a hunger she’d never seen in 
any warrior’s gaze. Her throat tightened. RiverClan would 
pay heavily for any betrayal. 

“Meet BloodClan.” Tigerstar’s gaze swept over them 
proudly, as though he’d trained them himself. “They’ve 
agreed to help us win the forest.” 

Scourge narrowed his eyes. “We've agreed to fight, 


that’s all” he growled. 

“Of course,” Tigerstar mewed smoothly. “That’s all I 
need you to do. I’ll take care of the rest.” 

Scourge watched the dark warrior as he turned to 
Blackfoot. 

“Now that we're all here, let's head down to the 
clearing.” Tigerstar pushed through the bushes covering the 
slope and headed into the hollow. Blackfoot followed, his 
warriors pouring after him. 

Leopardstar couldn’t move. Fear had hollowed her belly. 
She hadn’t realized Scourge was coming. She’d thought 
Tigerstar had abandoned the idea of bringing help from 
outside the Clans. 

“We can’t fight them too,” Blackclaw hissed in her ear. 

“T know.” Her heart was pounding. She’d pictured 
carrying news home to Mudfur of her victory over Tigerstar. 
But that was impossible now. The only way for her warriors 
to survive this battle was to fight with Tigerstar’s side. If 
they didn’t, this army of rogues would tear them apart. 
Hopelessness swamped her. Once ThunderClan and 
WindClan had been defeated, there would be no hope for 
RiverClan, or any Clan. Every warrior in the forest would be 
at the mercy of Tigerstar’s hunger for power. There would be 
no code, no honor, no loyalty left. Only fear. 

She closed her eyes. StarClan, help me. How had she 
ever hoped she could save the Clans? 


Blackclaw nudged her. “What do we do?” 

She pushed back despair. She’d chosen her path; she 
must follow it. StarClan would decide her punishment. She 
flattened her ears and straightened her tail. “We have no 
choice,” she told him softly. “We fight for TigerClan.” 

His shoulders slumped. 

“We have no choice,” she murmured. 

“Tknow.” He looked at her, his eyes hollow with defeat. 

“Tell the others.” 

As he weaved among their Clanmates, whispering the 
change of plan, Leopardstar noticed that Scourge and his 
cats hadn’t moved. They were staring down the slope as 
Tigerstar and his warriors reached the bottom. 

“Aren’t you coming with us?” she asked him. 

“PI wait for the Clans to gather before I join you,” he 
mewed. “You probably have warrior business to discuss.” 
His whiskers twitched and he caught the eye of the large 
black-and-white tom beside him. Together they purred with 
amusement, as though warriors were no more than a joke to 
them. 

Leopardstar fought back fury. She flicked her tail, 
signaling to her Clanmates, and headed downslope after 
Tigerstar. 

She smelled ThunderClan and WindClan scent as she 
reached the bottom. 

“Wait,” Tigerstar flicked his tail across her path before 


she could push her way through the bushes to the Fourtrees 
clearing. 

She peered between the branches. Firestar and Tallstar 
stood side by side beneath the great oaks. Behind them, 
ThunderClan and WindClan shifted nervously. The 
WindClan warriors were still bloody from their last battle. 
The ThunderClan warriors looked stronger, but she could 
see fear sparking in their eyes. Guilt wormed beneath her 
pelt. If she’d never agreed to align RiverClan with 
ShadowClan, this battle might never have happened. She 
shook out her pelt. She could do nothing about it now. She 
only had to fight and make sure her Clanmates escaped 
Fourtrees with their lives. 

She glanced at Tigerstar, waiting for his signal, and when 
he nodded, she followed him from the bushes with Blackfoot 
and Darkstripe. 

Firestar’s pelt was bristling, but not from fear His 
emerald eyes seemed to flash with energy as he saw 
Tigerstar. “Greetings, Tigerstar,’ he mewed coolly. “You 
came, then. Not still looking for those prisoners you lost 
from RiverClan territory?” 

Leopardstar pricked her ears. Had he helped Mistyfoot, 
Featherpaw, and Stormpaw escape? Her heart lifted for a 
moment. Were they safe in ThunderClan’s camp? 

Tigerstar snarled. “You'll regret that day’s work, 
Fires tar.” 


“Try and make me,” Firestar retorted. 

Behind Leopardstar, TigerClan began to stream from the 
bushes and fan out around the clearing. Firestar still looked 
undaunted. Her paws pricked nervously. Did the young 
ThunderClan leader really think he could win this fight? She 
felt a wave of pity. He had no idea that Scourge and his army 
were waiting at the top ofthe slope. 

Tigerstar took a pace forward. “Have you thought about 
my offer? I’m giving you a choice: Join me now and accept 
my leadership, or be destroyed.” 

Firestar glanced at Tallstar. Tallstar dipped his head. 
They must have already decided. 

“We reject your offer,” Firestar mewed. “The forest was 
never meant to be ruled by one Clan, especially not one led 
by a dishonorable murderer.” 

Leopardstar felt a flicker of admiration for the 
ThunderClan leader. If only she’d been so ready to reject 
Tigerstar’s offer. But Firestar clearly knew far more about the 
dark warrior than she ever had. He’d shared a Clan with him. 

Tigerstar swished his tail. “With or without you, Firestar, 
one Clan will rule the forest. By sunset today, the time of 
four Clans will be over.” 

The bushes rustled farther up the slope. BloodClan was 
coming like a wave ready to crash over the Clans and sweep 
them away. 

She moved quietly away from Tigerstar and whispered in 


Blackclaw’s ear. “Defend the ’paws, whatever happens.” 

“Okay.” 

“And make sure every RiverClan cat is seen fighting,” 
she breathed. “There will be repercussions if Tigers tar thinks 
we didn’t pull our weight.” 

As she spoke, Blackfoot raised his tail in a signal. 
Behind him, BloodClan padded out. Firestar’s ears were 
twitching. He was clearly struggling to maintain his 
composure as more and more cats emerged into the clearing, 
row after row of them, lining up behind the TigerClan 
warriors. 

“Well?” Tigerstar demanded silkily. “Are you still sure 
you want to stand and fight?” 

Firestar didn’t reply. His Clanmates shifted nervously, 
exchanging hushed mews. 

“You see, Firestar?” Tigerstar sounded triumphant. “I am 
even more powerful than StarClan, for I have changed the 
Clans in the forest from four to two. TigerClan and 
BloodClan will rule forever.” 

Alarm showed now on Firestar’s face. Leopardstar 
wanted to catch his eye, and try to show him she was sorry 
this was ever happened. She was as much a hostage as he 
was to Tigerstar now. And yet the ThunderClan leader lifted 
his muzzle. 

“No, Tigerstar,” he mewed quietly. “If you want to fight, 
let us fight. StarClan will show you who is more powerful.” 


Leopardstar’s breath quickened. He was so fearless. 
She’d underestimated this kittypet. 

“You mouse-brained fool!” Tigerstar spat. “I was 
prepared to come and talk with you today. Just remember 
that it is you who drove us to this. And when your 
Clanmates are dying around you, they will blame you with 
their last breath.” He swung around to face the mass of cats 
ranged behind him. “BloodClan, attack!” 

Leopardstar’s heart lurched. Energy bunched in her 
muscles as she prepared to spring into battle. 

But no cat moved. 

She watched Tigerstar’s eyes widen. 

“Attack! I order you!” Fury edged his shriek. 

Still no cat moved, except for Scourge. He took a pace 
forward and glanced at Firestar. “I am Scourge, leader of 
BloodClan,” he mewed icily. “Tigerstar, my warriors are not 
yours to command. They will attack when I tell them, and not 
before.” 

Tigerstar stared at the rogue in disbelief. His eyes 
flashed with hatred. 

Hope flickered in Leopardstar’s chest. Was Tigerstar’s 
ally deserting him? She stiffened as Firestar stepped 
between them. Didn’t he realize how dangerous these cats 
were? 

Graystripe darted among the ThunderClan warriors. 
“Firestar, be careful!” 


But Firestar was staring at Scourge. “I am Firestar,” he 
mewed. “Leader of ThunderClan. I wish I could say you 
were welcome in the forest. But you would not believe me if I 
did, and I have no wish to lie to you. Unlike your supposed 
ally here, I ama cat of honor. If you’ve believed any of the 
promises he made to you, then you are mistaken.” 

Its true! Leopardstar wanted to call out. Tigerstar had 
lied to her too. 

“Tigerstar told me he had enemies in the forest,” Scourge 
mewed. “Why should I believe you instead of him?” 

Firestar held the kittypet’s gaze. Leopardstar found 
herself willing him on. 

“Cats of all Clans,” he mewed. “Especially BloodClan. 
You have no need to believe or disbelieve me. Tigerstar’s 
crimes speak for themselves. When he was still a warrior of 
ThunderClan, he murdered our deputy, Redtail, hoping to be 
made deputy himself.” 

Leopardstar blinked. Hadn’t Oakheart killed Redtail in 
the battle for Sunningrocks? She pricked her ears as Firestar 
went on. 

“First Lionheart was chosen as deputy, but when that 
noble warrior died in a fight with ShadowClan, Tigerstar 
achieved his ambition at last.” 

He paused, and grim silence gripped the clearing, broken 
only by Tigerstar. 

“Mew away, kittypet. It won’t change anything.” 


Firestar ignored him. “Being deputy wasn’t enough,” he 
went on. “Tigerstar wanted to be leader of the Clan. He set a 
trap for Bluestar by the Thunderpath, but my own 
apprentice strayed into it instead. That’s how Cinderpelt 
came to have a crippled leg.” 

Leopardstar’s eyes widened. Tigerstar’s crimes stretched 
back for moons. 

“Then Tigerstar conspired with Brokentail,’ Firestar 
went on. “The former leader of ShadowClan was 
ThunderClan’s prisoner. He brought a pack of rogues into 
ThunderClan’s camp, and Tigerstar tried to murder Bluestar 
with his own claws. I stopped him, and when ThunderClan 
had beaten off the attack, we drove him into exile.” 

At last, Leopardstar knew why the dark warrior had left 
ThunderClan. If only she’d known that his ambition had 
been murderous. Why hadn’t Bluestar warned the other 
Clans? She flexed her claws. All this might have been 
avoided if ThunderClan had shared the truth about 
Tigerstar’s crimes earlier. 

Firestar went on. “As a rogue, he slaughtered yet 
another of our warriors, Runningwind. Then before we knew 
what he was up to, he had made himself leader of 
ShadowClan. But Tigerstar still wanted revenge on 
ThunderClan. Three moons ago, a pack of dogs got loose in 
the forest. Tigerstar caught prey for them, then led a trail of 
dead rabbits between the dogs’ lair and the ThunderClan 


camp to lead them to us. He murdered one of our queens, 
Brindleface, and left her near the camp to give the dogs a 
taste for cat blood. If we hadn’t found out in time to escape, 
the whole of ThunderClan would have been torn to pieces.” 

“Good riddance,” Tigerstar growled. 

Leopardstar looked at him. Would he one day be so 
dismissive of RiverClan’s destruction? 

“As it was,” Firestar went on, “our leader, Bluestar, died 
the bravest death of any cat, saving me and all our Clan from 
the pack.” 

Fear was spreading icy claws beneath Leopardstar’s 
pelt. She knew Tigerstar was evil, but she’d never guessed 
the full extent ofhis violence and cruelty. 

“This is Tigerstar’s history.” Firestar had turned back to 
Scourge. “It all shows one thing—that he’ll do anything for 
power. Ifhe promised you a share of the forest, don’t believe 
him. He won’t give up one paw print. Not to you, or any 
cat.” 

Scourge’s eyes had narrowed. Leopardstar held her 
breath. Was the vicious rogue going to abandon his ally? 
Had Firestar persuaded him? She tried to press back the 
hope surging in her chest. If Scourge left, she could carry on 
with her plan to support ThunderClan and WindClan. She 
could get rid of Tigerstar once and for all. 

Scourge turned his gaze toward the TigerClan leader. 
“Tigerstar told me what he was planning to do with the dogs 


when he visited me two moons ago.” 

Why didnt I know any of this? Leopardstar swallowed 
back a growl, angry at having been used. Tigerstar had only 
ever shared what had been useful to manipulate her. 

“He didn’t tell me his plan had failed,” Scourge went on. 

“None of this matters.” Tigerstar whisked his tail. “We 
have an agreement, Scourge. Fight beside me now and you’ll 
have all I offered you.” 

“My Clan and I fight when I choose,” Scourge mewed. 
To Firestar, he added. “I will think about what you have said. 
There will be no battle today.” 

Thank StarClan! Relief washed Leopardstar’s pelt. But 
Tigerstar was bristling with rage. 

He lashed his tail, his muscles bunching as he dropped 
into a crouch. “Traitor!” He leaped at Scourge, claws 
outstretched. 

Leopardstar tensed. Scourge was no match for the 
powerful tabby! He was half his size. But he was fast. He 
whipped to one side, avoiding Tigerstar as he landed, and 
when the dark warrior spun to face him, he lashed out with 
his front paws. 

Leopardstar’s eyes widened as she saw the sun glint 
unnaturally on the tips of each claw. The other warriors saw 
it too. Shocked murmurs rippled through the patrols. 
Scourge’s claws were reinforced with long, sharpened dogs’ 
teeth. 


One blow to his shoulder unbalanced Tigerstar. He fell 
on his side, exposing his belly, and Scourge’s vicious claws 
sank into his throat. Blood pulsed from the wound as the 
kittypet ripped him down to the tail with a single slash. 

Tigerstar screeched with fury, but his wail choked into a 
groan as his body convulsed, limbs jerking and tail 
thrashing. Leopardstar watched, sickened, and yet hope 
sparked afresh in her chest as Tigerstar fell still. Was he 
dead? What about his nine lives? She supposed it was 
possible that StarClan had refused to reward a cat this cruel 
with the true mark of Clan leadership. . . . But then the 
wounded tom convulsed again, yowling with rage, and then 
fell still, all the time the blood flowing from his wounds like 
water. He jerked again, and Leopardstar realized, with a 
sense of dread, that he was losing life after life. She watched 
as another spasm seized the dark warrior’s body. His claws 
tore up clumps of grass in his agony as his screeches turned 
from fury to terror. 

She grimaced. No cat should die like this. And yet 
Tigerstar’s death would mean RiverClan was free. 
Leopardstar wanted it to happen. She glanced at the sky. 
Forgive me, StarClan. Tigerstar’s warriors were breaking 
ranks now, some of them turning to flee the hollow. Even 
WindClan’s warriors had started to back away; Tallstar had 
to order them to hold the line. 

Leopardstar glanced at her own warriors. Blackclaw 


looked stiff with shock. Vixenleap and Wleclaw were 
trembling, while Sedgecreek and Reedtail had moved in front 
of the apprentices, trying to block their view of the grisly 
scene. She wouldn’t blame them for running. She’d proved 
over and over that she could not protect them. But none 
tried to leave. They were staying with her. Her heart ached 
with gratitude. 

Tigerstar was panting now, the fight for his life draining 
his last drop of energy. And yet hatred still blazed in his 
eyes, sparking there until his body gave one last jerk and lay 
still. 

He was dead. Grief unwound like twisted moss in 
Leopardstar’s chest, filling it until she could hardly breathe. 
Not just for Tigerstar’s death, but for all the lives he’d 
destroyed in his short time in the forest. Why had StarClan 
ever let himbe born? 

Scourge was still facing Firestar, and, behind him, the 
cats of BloodClan moved forward as if they were about to 
attack. Leopardstar flexed her claws. Which side would her 
warriors fight on now? Who was the greatest threat? 

Scourge had hardly looked at Tigerstar as he’d died. His 
eyes were cold now as he looked at Firestar. “You see what 
happens to cats who defy BloodClan?” he wamed calmly. 
“Your friend here”—he gave a contemptuous flick of his tail 
toward Tigerstar’s body—‘thought he could control us. He 
was wrong.” 


“We don’t want to control you,” Firestar mewed. “All we 
want is to lead our lives in peace. We’re sorry that Tigerstar 
brought you here with lies. Please feel free to hunt before 
you go home.” 

Leopardstar blinked at Firestar. Was he really so naive? 
Scourge had seen what the forest and river had to offer. And 
he’d killed the most powerful warrior in the forest with a 
single blow. Did Firestar really think Scourge would walk 
away? Had watching Tigerstar’s hunger for power taught 
the ThunderClan leader nothing? 

“Go home?” Scourge’s words didn’t surprise her, and yet 
they still filled her with dread. The kittypet’s eyes were filled 
with scom. “We’re not going anywhere, forest fool. In the 
town where we come from, there are many, many cats, and 
live prey is scarce. Here in the forest, we won’t need to 
depend on Twoleg rubbish for our food.” He looked around 
at the warriors still left in the clearing. “We’re taking over 
this territory now,” he mewed. “I shall rule the forest as well 
as the town. But I understand that you may need some time 
to reflect on this. You have three days to leave—or meet my 
Clan in battle. I shall wait for your decision at dawn on the 
fourth day.” 


In the days that followed, Leopardstar focused on 
feeding her Clan. The ShadowClan cats who hadn’t fled after 
Scourge had killed Tigerstar had followed her home like lost 
kits. Boulder had come too, and Darkstripe. Even Blackfoot 


dipped his head to her now. She only wished that Mistyfoot, 
Stormpaw, and Featherpaw might return home, but they had 
chosen to remain with ThunderClan ever since Firestar had 
helped to free them from Tigerstar’s prison. She didn’t trust 
the former ShadowClan cats enough to let them stay in the 
RiverClan camp with the elders and apprentices. And there 
was no way she was letting a ShadowClan cat sleep 
anywhere near the nursery. Instead, she’d left warriors to 
guard the island, with Mudfur to take care of Skyheart, and 
brought the rest of RiverClan with the ShadowClan warriors 
to the Bonehill clearing. They could make camp there until 
she’d decided what to do next. 

The river, at least, had thawed. It was a blessing from 
StarClan now that she had ShadowClan as well as RiverClan 
mouths to feed and was wary of sending patrols to the pine 
forest in case they ran into Scourge’s cats. But she wasn’t 
sure what to do. There was still a day to go until Scourge 
would demand a response to his ultimatum. She barely slept, 
and it was hard to swallow prey. She’d brought her Clan to 
this; now she must decide whether they should stay and 
face Scourge or leave and look for a new home beyond 
Highstones. Would Scourge ever allow them to stay 
peacefully by the river? She wanted to believe so, but she 
knew it was probably expecting too much from the violent 
rogue. 

Now, as dawn lit the sky, Leopardstar lay beside the 


Bonehill. She’d grown used to the stench of it. She should 
dismantle it, but why bother if they were going to leave? 
Stonefur should be organizing the patrols for the day. But 
Stonefur wasn’t here. He’d never be here again. Blackfoot 
moved behind her, picking bones from the pile and dropping 
them into the river to be swept away. 

Darkstripe was watching him, scom glittering in his eyes. 
“Why get rid of them when it took so long to collect them?” 
he scoffed. 

Blackfoot eyed him resentfully. “What true warrior would 
collect crow-food?” 

Loudbelly crossed the clearing and dipped his head as 
he neared Leopardstar. “Should I take Pikepaw out for 
training?” 

She blinked at him. “I guess,” she mewed. 

“He should practice fighting skills,” Loudbelly mewed. 
“Allthe apprentices should.” 

She met his gaze, fear moving in her belly. “Why? Do 
you think they’d stand a chance against BloodClan? They’d 
be ripped to pieces.” 

“They should be allowed a chance to try.” Loudbelly’s 
tail swished slowly behind him. 

His courage touched her, but was he really willing to 
sacrifice his apprentice? 

But why argue? “Train them all,” she told him. They 
might as well stay busy. 


As he tumed away, she saw Mudfur. Her father was 
crossing the clearing, his eyes dark with worry. Had 
something else happened? 

She sat up. It took every shred of her energy, as though 
the air were made of water. “Is Skyheart okay?” Her kits were 
due any day. 

“She’s fine.” 

Leopardstar was relieved. But the relief didn’t last long. 
Anxiety flooded back as Mudfur looked at her expectantly. 

“Have you decided?” he asked. 

“There’s nothing for me to decide,” she answered. 
“Scourge gave his ultimatum to Firestar and Tallstar.” 

“And you think it doesn’t affect us?” Mudfur looked 
unconvinced. 

“We were Tigerstar’s allies,” she mewed. “Scourge might 
leave the river to us. He might just want the forest and 
moor.” 

“Do you believe that?” Mudfur stared at her. 

Her shoulders drooped. “No, not really. But I don’t know 
what else to do. We can’t defeat him. We can’t leave.” How 
could RiverClan travel with a queen so close to kitting? 

“So we sit here and wait for him to drive us out?” 
Mudfur pressed. 

She stared at him, not knowing what to say. 

“You’re going to save the Clans,” he mewed. 

He must be bee-brained. “How many times do I have to 


fail before you stop believing that?” she mewed bitterly. 

“I don’t know why you don’t believe it anymore.” 
Mudfur’s gaze grew urgent. “It’s still true.” 

“Look around you.” She swept her tail around the 
clearing. ShadowClan cats sat hopelessly around the edge 
while RiverClan’s warriors wove new nests they’d probably 
never Sleep in. 

He thrust his muzzle closer. “The Clans have never 
needed saving more.” 

“And you think I’m the cat to do it.” She snorted. “Go 
talk to Firestar. He’s the one you should be pinning your 
hopes on. He's a true warrior. You saw him face Tigerstar 
and Scourge. Nothing scares him. Let himsave the Clans.” 

“He can’t do it without you,” Mudfur mewed. “You 
should be talking to him, not me.” 

“Why would he listen to me?” Leopardstar growled. “I’m 
Tigerstar’s ally, remember? As far as he’s concerned, I’m the 
traitor to the Clans, not their savior.” 

“He needs you,” Mudfur mewed. “He needs all the help 
he can get. Look!” He nodded toward Blackfoot. “You have 
more warriors now than ever. Use them. Tell them to fight. 
They'll listen to you.” 

“They’re fools if they do,” she grunted. 

Anger flared suddenly in Mudfur’s eyes. “You are a 
good leader,” he growled. “No cat has worked harder than 
you to make RiverClan strong.” 


“Pve destroyed it.” 

“You’ve made mistakes,” he conceded. “But it was 
Tigerstar who hurt us, not you. You only ever tried to 
protect your Clanmates.” 

“I didn’t protect Stonefur.” 

Frustration flashed in his gaze. “Stop feeling sorry for 
yourself and do something!” he spat. “You can’t change the 
past. But you can change the future. You can save the 
Clans, and you will. You’re strong and smart, and these cats 
decided to follow you, even after everything that’s 
happened. They’re looking to you to protect them. You can’t 
let them down, not after everything they’ve been through. 
You owe them one last fight.” 

Leopardstar looked at him. One last fight. Was he right? 
Her heart seemed to quicken for the first time in days. She 
gazed across the clearing. Heavystep had moved scattered 
bones away froma patch of grass and was demonstrating a 
battle crouch to Dawnpaw. Ottersplash, her pelt still wet 
from the river, was carrying a trout toward Shadepelt. 
Vixenleap was plucking reeds for Mosspelt to weave into a 
nest. While she was lying here, despairing, her Clanmates 
were getting on with the duties they’d carried out for moons, 
trusting that RiverClan would go on and that, whatever 
happened, they would still be warriors. She straightened. 
“Do you really think I can save the Clans?” she asked 
Mudfur. 


“You will make the difference between Firestar winning 
the battle with BloodClan or losing it.” 

“Is it worth the risk?” 

“What do you think?” 

Her heart ached at the thought of Primrosepaw or any of 
the other apprentices facing a BloodClan rogue. But did she 
have the right to stop her—to stop any of her Clanmates— 
from living as true warriors? “I think it’s dangerous.” As she 
spoke, she saw a familiar orange pelt. She lifted her muzzle. 
Firestar was crossing the clearing, heading toward her. 
“But,” she mewed to Mudfur, getting to her paws, “I think 
we have to fight.” 





CHAPTER 34 
¥ 


Sunningrocks shone in the weak leaf-bare sun. Leopardstar 
waited at the edge. The conversation with Firestar had gone 
well. She’d agreed to become part of LionClan and fight 
BloodClan. And Firestar had given her permission to be 
here. She looked at the puddles now, pooling in the dips on 
the wide stretch of stone. Would RiverClan ever own this 
stretch of territory again? Would they even own the river 
after the battle tomorrow? 

Leopardstar lifted her chin. She had to believe they 
would, or why risk her warriors? 

The brambles—no more than a tangle of bare branches 
—rattled. Leopardstar got to her paws as she saw a familiar 
blue-gray pelt slide between them. The cat’s gaze, so much 
like Stonefur’s, made guilt open like a wound in her chest. 

Mistyfoot padded across the stone. 

Leopardstar dipped her head as she neared. “Thank you 
for coming,” she mewed. She pressed her paws against the 
stone. She must accept whatever Mistyfoot had to say, no 
matter how harsh. 

Mistyfoot’s eyes shimmered, but there was no reproach 
their icy-blue depths. “Firestar says you’re going to fight 
with us.” 

Us. Did Mistyfoot see herself as part of ThunderClan 


now? 

Leopardstar pushed away regret. She couldn’t blame the 
gray warrior for her choice. 

“RiverClan will face BloodClan beside ThunderClan and 
WindClan,” she mewed. 

“Tigerstar would never have agreed to support Fires tar,” 
Mistyfoot mewed. 

“Tigerstar’s dead.” Leopardstar swished her tail. 

“Are you leader of TigerClan now?” 

“There is no TigerClan,” she mewed. 

“But ShadowClan warriors are still on RiverClan land.” 

“Pm giving them shelter. While Scourge is in the forest, 
they have nowhere else to go.” Leopardstar wondered when 
shed stopped thinking of the ShadowClan cats as 
Clanmates and started thinking of themas refugees. Perhaps 
she’d never truly thought of them as Clanmates. “I have a 
responsibility to them. They were victims of Tigerstar, just as 
I was.” 

“Victims?” Mistyfoot’s gaze hardened. “You didn’t seem 
much like a victim while we were being held captive.” 

Leopardstar looked at her paws. “How are Featherpaw 
and Stormpaw?” she mewed quietly. 

“They’re well” Mistyfoot mewed. “ThunderClan is 
taking care of them. They have new mentors.” 

The words felt like claws in Leopardstar’s belly. They 
had ThunderClan mentors. “Does that mean they’re never 


coming home?” 

“Are you surprised?” 

“They’re RiverClan.” 

“I wished you'd believed that a quarter moon ago.” 
There was bitterness in Mistyfoot's mew. 

“T believe it now.” 

Mistyfoot gazed at her, sadness rounding her eyes. Was 
she thinking about Stonefur? Leopardstar’s change of heart 
had come too late for him. 

“Pm sorry.” Leopardstar lifted her muzzle and met 
Mistyfoot’s gaze. “I was wrong to make RiverClan part of 
TigerClan. I should have seen that Tigerstar was greedy only 
for power. As soon as I saw he was a threat, I should have 
stood up to him. I should have protected you.” Her mew 
cracked, but Mistyfoot only stared back at her sadly. “It’s 
my fault Stonefur died.” Leopardstar forced herself to go on. 
“I will never forgive myself. I don’t know now how I could 
have doubted him. I don’t know how I doubted any of my 
Clanmates, no matter their blood. None of you ever showed 
disloyalty. You loved RiverClan as much as I did. But I 
changed RiverClan into something no warrior could love.” 
She stretched her muzzle forward. “Now I’m going to change 
it back. Pm going to rebuild it.” 

Mistyfoot looked away. “What does that mean to me, or 
to Stonefur, or to Featherpaw and Stormpaw? We have a 
new Clan now. ThunderClan has accepted us completely. 


They don’t care about our blood. They care only that we are 
willing to hunt and fight for our Clanmates.” 

“I understand.” Leopardstar fluffed out her fur. “But I 
still have to ask this. .. .” She took a breath. “If we survive 
the battle tomorrow, I would like you to come home and help 
me rebuild.” 

Mistyfoot’s eyes betrayed nothing. 

“I want you to be my deputy.” Leopardstar looked at her 
eamestly. “I can’t think of a better cat to help me make 
RiverClan what it was always meant to be.” 

Mistyfoot frowned. “Would you listen to me?” 

“Yes.” 

“You ignored Stonefur’s warnings.” 

“I was wrong. I’ve learned from it. I’ve learned from 
everything that’s happened. I will let you advise me. You can 
be my conscience when I am uncertain.” 

Mistyfoot didn’t move. Leopardstar held her breath as, 
behind her, starlings gossiped and the river gurgled below. 

At last, Mistyfoot’s tail twitched. “I can’t give you an 
answer now.” 

“Take all the time you need.” Leopardstar blinked at her 
hopefully. She couldn’t imagine RiverClan without 
Mistyfoot, Featherpaw, and Stormpaw, and she knew that 
the wounds she’d inflicted on her Clanmates would never 
fully heal unless their lost Clanmates returned. 

“Tshould go.” Mistyfoot turned away. 


“I hope, one day, you'll be able to forgive me,” 
Leopardstar mewed after her. She watched the gray she-cat 
pad toward the trees, her heart aching for all she had lost. 

As she padded to the edge of Sunningrocks, preparing 
to scramble down to the riverbank, a mew called from 
behind. “Leopardstar!” 

Her heart quickened. “Mistyfoot?” Why was the gray 
she-cat calling her back? Was there something she’d 
forgotten to say? 

Leopardstar turned back toward the trees and met 
Mistyfoot hurrying toward her. 

“PI do it.” Mistyfoot’s eyes were shining. “I love my 
Clan, in spite of it all. PI help you rebuild RiverClan.” 

“You'll join us again?” A rush of joy surged through 
Leopardstar’s chest. 

“Yes, as deputy.” Mistyfoot's tail was quivering. “PI 
never be a ThunderClan cat, not truly. If we survive the 
battle, PI come home.” 

“We’ll make RiverClan the Clan it always should have 
been,” Leopardstar mewed. Hope was fizzing through every 
hair on her pelt. 

Mistyfoot’s eyes darkened. “But first we must win the 
battle against BloodClan.” 





CHAPTER 35 
Se 


Leopardstar paused at the edge ofthe river and watched the 
ShadowClan warriors cross, making sure they were safe. 
They were still not strong swimmers, but this was the 
quickest way to the meeting place where Firestar and 
ThunderClan would be waiting. This would be the last time 
ShadowClan and RiverClan would fight together. Ifthe battle 
was won, Blackfoot would take his warriors back to the pine 
forest. If it was lost, there would be no more battles to fight. 

Her RiverClan warriors were already pacing the shore like 
shadows in the half-light, their pelts dripping. The first pale 
streaks of dawn were coloring the sky, painting it red and 
gold beyond the forest. 

Blackfoot waded out of the water, Runningnose, 
Littlecloud, and Russetfur at his heels. Boulder followed 
close behind. The ShadowClan medicine cat was carrying a 
large leaf wrap between his jaws, stuffed with herbs and 
cobwebs he might need to treat the wounded. Mudfur was 
already on the shore, his leaf wrap open as he checked that 
none of his supplies had been washed away. 

As the last of ShadowClan climbed onto the shore, 
Leopardstar surveyed the battle patrol. They were sleek and 
well-fed. She knew that whatever happened today, they 
would fight with their last drop of energy. And they would 


obey her orders without question. During the last-minute 
training, hunting, and preparations for battle, no cat had 
second-guessed her or hesitated to follow her command. 
Part of her felt that she did not deserve the respect they 
showed her, but she was determined to earn it now and 
forever, over and over, every day she was leader of 
RiverClan. 

“You will stand with me today as the courageous 
warriors you have always been,” she yowled. Their gazes 
lifted toward her, and she saw fear there. Every cat knew that 
this battle would be harder than any they’d ever fought. She 
puffed out her chest. “We have traveled a difficult path 
together. Tigerstar persuaded us to do things no warrior 
should ever do. I’m sorry I didn’t protect you from him. I 
believed he would make our Clans stronger. I believed he 
would make every Clan in the forest stronger. But he only 
ever used your loyalty and your courage and your pride to 
make himself more powerful.” 

Blackclaw whisked his tail. Loudbelly’s pelt rippled along 
his spine as she went on. 

“It is not your fault. I should have stood up to him. I 
should have realized what he was doing. I should have tried 
to stop him. I’m sorry that I didn’t. I let you all down, and 
that knowledge will stay with me, even in StarClan.” 

She steadied her breath. “But my failure has made me 
stronger. Never again will I believe that cruelty is the path to 


strength, or that fear can lead to any change worth having. If 
our Clans are to be better Clans, they must be good and kind 
and fair. That is the only true strength, and I promise I will 
never again forget it.” 

She met Blackfoot’s gaze. “ShadowClan will be strong 
again,” she mewed. “And so will RiverClan. We will rebuild 
our Clans and be proud once again to belong to them. They 
will become stronger Clans, and smarter and more just than 
ever before. Clans that will never be beaten by rogues like 
BloodClan.” She lifted her tail. “Today we show Scourge 
what true warriors are capable of. Today we drive cruelty 
and viciousness from our borders. Today .. .” She looked 
around the ranks of hopeful faces. “Today we will win!” 

Satisfaction washed over her pelt as her warriors 
cheered, their tails lashing with determination. 

If our Clans are to be better Clans, they must be good 
and kind and fair. She stiffened as she realized that the Clan 
she’d described—the Clan she dreamed of—had existed 
once already. It was the RiverClan of her kithood: the Clan 
that had raised her. She’d tried so hard to reshape it into 
something stronger and better, only to discover that it was 
already perfect. She’d never had to save RiverClan after all. 
She’d only had to learn its true value. 

Mudfur glanced up the slope, his gaze sharpening. What 
had he seen? Leopardstar jerked her muzzle around. Firestar 
was standing at the top of the slope. He was waiting for 


them. In the dawn sunshine, his orange pelt looked like flame 
against the forest green. 

She looked around at her warriors, her heart pounding. 
“Ready?” 

“Ready!” 

“Ready!” 

Their mews rose above the swishing of the river and the 
chattering of the birds. Leopardstar’s pelt bristled with 
determination as she tumed and led her warriors up the 
slope, the bushes sweeping her flank. 

At the top, Firestar dipped his head. His warriors were 
waiting behind him. Mistyfoot hurried from among them to 
greet Shadepelt and Vixenleap as Leopardstar’s patrol fell in 
beside them. 

Firestar met Leopardstar’s gaze. “Shall we do this?” 

She nodded. “Yes.” 

As she tumed toward Fourtrees, Mudfur called after her. 
“This is your destiny, Leopardstar.” His mew rang in her 
ears. “Go save RiverClan.” 

She glanced over her shoulder, her heart aching with 
love for him and for her Clan. “I will,” she promised. 

When she’d been a naive kit, she had believed she 
would save her Clan easily, because of the potential her 
father had seen in her. Now she realized that she might 
“save” her Clan only after nearly destroying it. She had been 
foolish and greedy; she had aligned herself with an evil cat 


who’d told her only what she wanted to hear. She had 
caused her Clanmates great pain and even lost some of them 
forever. But now she recognized what was most important to 
her: not making RiverClan all-powerful, but ensuring that the 
Clan she’d been born into would live on forever. That was 
how she would save RiverClan. 

And, as she rushed into battle alongside her Clanmates, 
she was certain they would succeed. 


READ ON FOR AN EXCLUSIVE WARRIORS 
COMIC... 








CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ART BY 
JAMES L. BARRY 


YY a 


Le 
= e 


THAT'S HAWKFROST [3 
CALLING MY NAME. [P 


| STARCLAN MADE 
THAT CLEAR. 


> 
LEOPARDSTAR, IT'S 
THUNDERCLAN! 


I FOUND THUNDERCLAN THIS 15 THE LAST THING I Erd 


FIRST WE SCENTED WIND 
BT NEE NEARBY... 


THEN MY DEPUTY, MISTYFOOT, px 
MAYBE EVEN WENT MISSING. NO CAT HAS SEEN [SS 
ACROSS IT! HER FOR A FULL DAY, 


NOW HAWKFROST WANTS 
TO FIGHT SOME THUNDERCLAN 
CATS BY HIMSELF? 
YOU'VE GOT 


TO LET ME GO |] SOMETIMES I REGRET 
AFTER THEM! Æ COMING OUT OF MY DEN 
f IN THE MORNINGS. 





THOUGH 1 CAN'T HELP WONDERING 
WHETHER MISTYFOOT'S 
DISAPPEARANCE COULD BE MY FAULT. 


.-- STRAINED BETWEEN US LATELY. 
SHE THINKS I NEVER GIVE HER ANY 
REAL RESPONSIBILITY. AND SHE 
RESENTS ME FOR IT. 


EAGER BY THE HOUR. SHOWING ME WH 
I SHOULD MAKE HIM DEPUTY... 


„IF I DECIDE TO 
REPLACE MISTYFOOT. 


YOU'RE 
SURE IT WAS 
THUNDERCLAN? 












LET ME SHOW THESE 
THUNDERCLAN CATS THEY'RE 
NOT WELCOME IN RIVERCLAN 
TERRITORY! 


YESTERDAY WE EVEN ARGUED 
ABOUT IT, BUT I DIDN'T THINK IT WAS 
THAT BAD. NOT BAD ENOUGH TO 
MAKE HER LEAVE. 


SURE AS THE NOSE 
ON MY FACE. PROBABLY 
TRYING TO STEAL OUR 


SINCE THEIR LANDS 
GETTING OVERRUN BY 
TWOLEGS. 


ALL THE OTHER 
CLANS ARE SKINNY AND 





GO PUT EYES ON 
THEM FIRST, HAWKFROST. 
FROM A DISTANCE. 


IF IT IS A PATROL — 
AND ESPECIALLY IF IT'S 
A BIG ONE — 


\ a 
...JOU COME RIGHT BACK sem 
AND GET SOME CLANMATES J 
BEFORE YOU DO ANYTHING ELSE. | IS y 
| 


HMMM... WHO'S THAT 
SNEAKING OFF AFTER HIM? 





I WANT TO CALL OUT TO HER. 
TELL HER TO BE CAREFUL. TELL 
HER TO KEEP HAWKFROST OUT 
N OF TROUBLE IF SHE CAN. 


IM LETTING MY 
CLAN DOWN. IM LETTING 


REST BETA N ER ZN N ER DS UN A 
f MYSELF DOWN. 


4 4 MAYBE MISTYFOOT DID 
\ LEAVE BECAUSE OF ME. IT'S 
PY _ BUT EVERY TIME 1 CLOSE MY HARD TO IMAGINE, SINCE I'VE 
EYES, 1 SEE MISTYFOOT — 1 HEAR NEVER MET A CAT MORE 
THE TWO OF US FIGHTING... LOYAL, BUT IF SHE DID... 


YIN Ne 
WAR j 


Sa 
«+. HAVE TO ADMIT IT. 
«AND, STARCLAN I'VE BEEN SO WRAPPED UP IN 
FORGIVE ME, I JUST DON’T MYSELF...IT'S MADE ME BLIND. 
HAVE THE STRENGTH. 


EEE = 
TIME TO BE A Y 
LEADER. 
RW 


I HAVE MADE A 
DECISION! 


MOST RIGHT NOW IS 
ORDER. 


ABSENCE, I NAME HAWKFROST 
MY TEMPORARY DEPUTY. 





LEOPARDSTAR... 
DO YOU THINK MISTYFOOT 
ISN'T COMING BACK? 


YOU DON'T 
THINK SHE'S DEAD, 


I BELIEVE IN 
MISTYFOOT. SHE'S A SMART, 


TOUGH, CAPABLE CAT. I CAN ALMOST HEAR 


MISTYFOOT IN MY EAR. 


BUT WE HAVE TO BE 
REALISTIC. RIVERCLAN 


NEEDS A DEPUTY. "OH, NOW YOU 


THINK A LEADER 
NEEDS HELP?" 


OVER THE NEXT TWO DAYS, 
AS WE SEND OUT PATROL 
AFTER PATROL LOOKING 


LEOPARDSTAR... 
IS HAVING THIS MANY CATS 
AWAY FROM CAMP AGAIN 
WORTH THE RISK? 


-I WISH SHE COULD SAY 
THOSE WORDS TO ME. 
TO MY FACE. 





AND WITH THE TWOLEGS 
50 CLOSE... 


THE TRUTH 15, 
DON'T DO EVERYTHING 
N TO TRY TO FIND 


WILL REEDPAW UNDERSTAND 
THAT WE CAN'T KEEP SEARCHING 
FOREVER? 





\ NV 


SOME CATS HAVE 


{ BEGUN TO ACCEPT THE LOSS. 


THEN THERE'S 
REEDPAW. 


COME WITH ME. 
WE SHOULD TALK. 





I KNOW YOU 
CARE ABOUT MISTYFOOT. 
I DO TOO. WE ALL DO. 


MAYBE WE WON'T 
BE ABLE TO SEND OUT I'M ALREADY DOING IT. 
WHOLE PATROLS TO SEARCH GUESS WHERE I WENT 
ANYMORE... À YESTERDAY? 


BUT I PROMISE YOU... 


WE WILL NEVER 
STOP LOOKING FOR HER. 
AND I BELIEVE WE WILL 

FIND HER. 


I WENT AND ASKED 
THE OTHER CLANS TO LOOK AND mey SAID 
OUT FOR CLUES ON THEIR THEY'D HELP. 

PATROLS AND HUNTS. 


REEDPAW DOESN'T KNOW HOW HARD 
IT WAS FOR ME TO SWALLOW ENOUGH 
PRIDE TO GO TO THE OTHER LEADERS 
LIKE THAT. BUT IT MADE ME REALIZE... 


ASKING FOR HELP 15 NOT 
WEAKNESS. ESPECIALLY IF IT 
HELPS US FIND MISTYFOOT. 


LEOPARDSTAR! N 
LEOPARDSTAR! 


ITS MISTYFOOT! 
SHE'S HERE! 





EZ 


I WAS CARRYING? 


DO I TELL HER THAT SEEING 
HANK STARCLAN! é R HAS LIFTED A WEIGHT OFF OF 
ZE] ME THAT I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW 
fi ze 


N 


= 
$ 


= 
NS 





YES, 
LEOPARDSTAR? 


I WILL NEVER 
LET YOU DOWN 


T'LL MAKE SURE SHE 
GETS TO SERVE RIVERCLAN if MAYBE MUDFUR'S VISIONS 
THE WAY SHE WANTS TO. K ABOUT ME BEING IMPORTANT 
DIDN'T MEAN THAT I'D BE THE 
CAT DESTINED TO LEAD 
i RIVERCLAN TO GREATNESS. 


... THE WARRIOR WHO A / 
WILL. 





About the Author 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a 
fascination with the ferocity of the natural world. In addition 
to having great respect for nature in all its forms, Erin enjoys 
creating rich mythical explanations for animal behavior. She 
is also the author of the Seekers, Survivors, Bravelands, and 
Bamboo Kingdom series. 


Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at hc.com. 


Books by Erin Hunter 


yy "eo 


SUPER EDITIONS 


Firestar 5 Quest 
Bluestar 5 Prophecy 
SkyClan $ Destiny 
Crookedstar 5 Promise 
Yellowfang 5 Secret 
Tallstar 5 Revenge 
Bramblestar s Storm 
Moth Flights Vision 
Hawkwing 5 Journey 
Tigerheart 5 Shadow 
Crowfeather 5 Trial 
Squirrelflight s Hope 
Graystripe 5 Vow 


Back Ads 


EN ARRIORS 


Check out WarriorCats.com to 


e Explore amazing fan art, stories, and videos 

e Have your say with polls and Warriors reactions 
e Ask questions at the Moonpool 

e Explore the full family tree 

e Read exclusives from Erin Hunter 

e Shop for exclusive merchandise 

e And more! 


Check Out the New Warrior Cats Hub App! 
Z, Download on the GET ITON 
@ AppStore > Google Play 











HARPER 


An Imprint of Harper! 


warriorcats.com e shelfstuff.com 




















ARE YOU A TRUE ERIN HUNTER FAN? 
READ THEM ALL! 





THE PROPHECIES BEGIN OMEN OF THE STARS 

e Into the Wild e The Fourth Apprentice 
e Fire and Ice * Fading Echoes 

e Forest of Secrets e Night Whispers 

e Rising Storm e Sign of the Moon 

« A Dangerous Path e The Forgotten Warrior 
e The Darkest Hour e The Last Hope 

THE NEW PROPHECY DAWN OF THE CLANS 

e Midnight e The Sun Trail 

e Moonrise e Thunder Rising 

e Dawn e The First Battle 

e Starlight e The Blazing Star 

e Twilight e A Forest Divided 

e Sunset e Path of Stars 

POWER OF THREE A VISION OF SHADOWS 
e The Sight e The Apprentice’s Quest 
e Dark River e Thunder and Shadow 

e Outcast è Shattered Sky 

Eclipse e Darkest Night 

e Long Shadows e River of Fire 

e Sunrise e The Raging Storm 





HARPER 


mprint of HarperCollins 


warriorcats.com 





ARE YOU A TRUE ERIN HUNTER FAN? 


READ THEM ALL! 





JARRIORS 


THE BROKEN CODE 

e Lost Stars 

e The Silent Thaw 

e Veil of Shadows 

e Darkness Within 

e The Place of No Stars 
e A Light in the Mist 


GRAPHIC NOVELS 

e Graystripe's Adventure 

e Ravenpaw's Path 

e SkyClan and the Stranger 
e A Shadow in RiverClan 

e Winds of Change 


GUIDES 

e Secrets of the Clans 
e Cats of the Clans 

e Code of the Clans 

e Battles of the Clans 
e Enter the Clans 

e The Ultimate Guide 


HARPER 


NOVELLAS 

e The Untold Stories 

e Tales from the Clans 

è Shadows of the Clans 
® Legends of the Clans 
e Path of a Warrior 

e A Warrior’s Spirit 

e A Warrior’s Choice 


SUPER EDITIONS 

e Firestar’s Quest 

eè Bluestar's Prophecy 
e SkyClan's Destiny 

e Crookedstar's Promise 
e Yellowfang's Secret 
e Tallstar’s Revenge 

e Bramblestar’s Storm 
e Moth Flight's Vision 
e Hawkwing's Journey 
e Tigerheart's Shadow 
e Crowfeather's Trial 

e Squirrelflight's Hope 
e Graystripe’s Vow 

e Leopardstar’s Honor 








ARE YOU A TRUE ERIN HUNTER FAN? 


READ THEM ALL! 


SURVIVORS 





SURVIVORS SURVIVORS: THE 

e The Empty City GATHERING DARKNESS 
e A Hidden Enemy e A Pack Divided 

e Darkness Falls e Dead of Night 

e The Broken Path e Into the Shadows 

e The Endless Lake e Red Moon Rising 

e Storm of Dogs e The Exile’s Journey 


e The Final Battle 


SPERAS 


SEEKERS SEEKERS: RETURN 

e The Quest Begins TO THE WILD 

e Great Bear Lake e Island of Shadows 

e Smoke Mountain e The Melting Sea 

e The Last Wilderness e River of Lost Bears 
e Fire in the Sky e Forest of Wolves 

e Spirits in the Stars e The Burning Horizon 


e The Longest Day 





HARPER 


warriorcats.com 








ARE YOU A TRUE ERIN HUNTER FAN? 


READ THEM ALL! 


RAVELAND)) 





BRAVELANDS BRAVELANDS: CURSE 
e Broken Pride OF THE SANDTONGUE 
e Code of Honor e Shadows on the Mountain 


e Blood and Bone 
e Shifting Shadows 
e The Spirit-Eaters 
e Oathkeeper 


BAMBOO 
INGDO 


BAMBOO KINGDOM 
e Creatures of the Flood 








warriorcats.com 





Copyright 


WARRIORS SUPER EDITION: LEOPARDSTAR’S HONOR. Copyright 
© 2021 by Working Partners Ltd. Series created by Working 
Partners Ltd. Map art © 2015, 2021 by Dave Stevenson. Interior 
art © 2021 by Owen Richardson. Comic text © 2021 by Working 
Partners Ltd. Comic art © 2021 by HarperCollins Publishers. All 
rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright 
Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been 
granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read 
the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be 
reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decomp iled, reverse- 
engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage 
and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether 
electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without 
the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books. 


www.harp ercollinschildrens.com 


Cover art O 2021 by Owen Richardson 
Series cover design by Ellice M. Lee 
| EKKKKKKKKK | 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 


Names: Hunter, Erin, author. 
Title: Leopardstar’s honor / Erin Hunter. 


Description: First edition. | New York : Harper, an imprint of 
HarperCollins Publishers, [2021] | Series: Warriors super 
edition; [14] | Audience: Ages 8-12. | Audience: Grades 4-6. | 
Summary: Leopardstar knows her destiny is to save RiverClan 
from destruction, so as the rise of ThunderClan deputy 
Tigerstar shatters peace among the clans, Leopardstar must 
decide what kind of leader she will be. 

Identifiers: LCCN 2021024291 | ISBN 978-0-06-296306-2 
(hardcover) | ISBN 978-0-06-296307-9 (library binding) 

Subjects: CYAC: Cats—Fiction. | Adventure and adventurers— 
Fiction. | Fantasy. 

Classification: LCC PZ7.H916625 Lg 2021 | DDC [Fic]—dc23 

LC record available at https://Iccn.loc.gow/202 1024291 

| u | 
Digital Edition SEPTEMBER 2021 ISBN: 978-0-06-296309-3 

Print ISBN: 978-0-06-296306-2 


21 22 23 24 25 pc/LscH 101987654321 


e, 
e 


FIRST EDITION 


About the Publisher 


Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 


www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd 
Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower 
22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor 
Toronto, Ontario, M5H 4E3 


www.harpercollins.ca 


India 
HarperCollins India 
A 75, Sector 57 
Noida 
Uttar Pradesh 201 301 


www.harpercollins.co.in 


New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 
Rosedale 0632 


Auckland, New Zealand 
www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 
1 London Bridge Street 
London SEI 9GF, UK 


www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
195 Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 


www.harpercollins.com 


