SUPER EDITION 


ASUS 


MOTH FLIGHTS 
VISION 





ERIN HUNTER 


#1 NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLING AUTHOR 





SUPER EDITION 


MOTH FLIGHT’S 
VISION 


ERIN 
HUNTER 


HARPER 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers 





Contents 


Dedication 
Allegiances 
Maps 


Prologue 
Chapter 1 
Chapter 2 
Chapter 3 
Chapter 4 
Chapter 5 
Chapter 6 
Chapter 7 
Chapter 8 
Chapter 9 
Chapter 10 
Chapter 11 
Chapter 12 
Chapter 13 
Chapter 14 
Chapter 15 


Chapter 16 
Chapter 17 
Chapter 18 
Chapter 19 
Chapter 20 
Chapter 21 
Chapter 22 
Chapter 23 
Chapter 24 
Chapter 25 
Chapter 26 
Chapter 27 
Chapter 28 
iil 29 





Pieper 31 
Chapter 32 
Chapter 33 
Chapter 34 
Chapter 35 
Chapter 36 
Chapter 37 
Exclusive Manga Adventure 


Excerpt from Warriors: A Vision of Shadows #1: 
The Apprentice 5 Quest 


Back Ads 

About the Author 
Books by Erin Hunter 
Credits 

Copyright 

About the Publisher 


Dedication 


Special thanks to Kate Cary 


LEADER 


ALLEGIANCES 


WINDCLAN 


WIND RUNNER—wiry brown she-cat with yellow 
eyes 

GORSE FUR—thin, gray tabby tom 

DUST MUZZLE—gray tabby tom with amber eyes 
MOTH FLIGHT—white she-cat with green eyes 
SLATE—thick-furred gray she-cat with one ear tip 
missing 

WHITE TAIL—dark gray tom-kit with white 
patches and amber eyes 

SILVER STRIPE—pale gray tabby she-kit with blue 
eyes 

BLACK EAR—black-and-white patched tom-kit 
with amber eyes 


SPOTTED FUR—golden-brown tom with amber 
eyes and a dappled coat 


ROCKY—p lump orange-and-white tom with green 
eyes 
SWIFT MINNOW—gray -and-white she-cat 


REED TAIL—silver tabby tom with a knowledge of 
herbs 


LEADER 


JAGGED PEAK—small gray tabby tom with blue 
eyes 
HOLLY—she-cat with prickly, bushy fur 


STORM PELT—mottled gray tom with blue eyes 
and thick, bushy tail 


DEW NOSE—brown splotchy tabby she-cat with 
white tips on nose and tail, yellow eyes 


EAGLE FEATHER—brown tom with yellow eyes, 
broad shoulders, and striped tail 


WILLOW TAIL—pale tabby she-cat with blue eyes 
FERN LEAF—black she-cat with green eyes 


SKYCLAN 


CLEAR SKY—light gray tom with blue eyes 
STAR FLOWER—golden she-cat with green eyes 
TINY BRANCH—tan-and-silver tom 

DEW PETAL—silver-and-white she-cat 
FLOWER FOOT—she-cat with tan stripes 
ACORN FUR—chestnut brown she-cat 
THORN—tom with splotchy brown fur 


SPARROW FUR—tortoiseshell she-cat with amber 
eyes 
QUICK WATER—gray -and-white she-cat 


LEADER 


NETTLE—gray tom 


BIRCH—ginger tom with white circles of fur around 
his eyes 


ALDER—gray, brown-and-white she-cat 


BLOSSOM—tortoiseshell-and-white she-cat with 
yellow eyes 


RED CLAW—reddish-brown tom 


THUNDERCLAN 


THUNDER—orange tom with big white paws 


VIOLET DAWN—sleek dark gray she-cat with bits 
of black around her ears and paws 


CLOUD SPOTS—long-furred black tom with white 
ears, white chest, and two white paws 


LIGHTNING TAIL—black tom 

OWL EYES—gray tom with amber eyes 

PINK EYES—white tom with pink eyes 
LEAF—black-and-white tom with amber eyes 


MILKWEED—sp lotchy ginger-and-black she-cat 
with scar on muzzle 


CLOVER—ginger-and-white she-cat with yellow 
eyes 
THISTLE—ginger tom with green eyes 


LEADER 


GOOSEBERRY—pale yellow tabby she-cat yew tail 
—cream-and-brown tom 

APPLE BLOSSOM—orange-and-white she-kit 
SNAIL SHELL—dappled gray tom-kit 


RIVERCLAN 


RIVER RIPPLE—long-furred silver tom with amber 
eyes 

DAPPLED PELT—delicate tortoiseshell she-cat with 
golden eyes 

SHATTERED ICE—gray -and-white tom with green 
eyes 

NIGHT—black she-cat 

DEW—gray she-cat 

DAWN MIST—orange-and-white she-cat with green 
eyes 

MOSS TAIL—dark brown tom with golden eyes 
DRIZZLE— gray -and-white she-kit with pale blue 
eyes 

PINE NEEDLE—black tom-kit with yellow eyes 


SHADOWCLAN 


LEADER 


TALL SHADOW—black, thick-furred she-cat with 
green eyes 


PEBBLE HEART—dark gray tabby tom with white 
mark on his chest and amber eyes 
SUN SHADOW—black tom with amber eyes 


JUNIPER BRANCH—long-furred tortoiseshell she- 
cat with green eyes 


RAVEN PELT—black tom with yellow eyes 


MOUSE EAR—big tabby tom with unusually small 
ears 


MUD PAWS—pale brown tom with four black paws 


ROGUES 


COW—plump black-and-white barn she-cat with 
green eyes 


MOUSE—small brown barn tom with amber eyes 
MICAH— yellow tom with green eyes 


Maps 











ESS T VE 

















$ ER 


= DEVILS FINGERS: 
sil, ivued mine] 




















PROLOGUE 
+ 


“Help her!” Horror seared through Moth Flight's 
body as she spotted the blue-gray she-cat lying in the 
ditch beside the dirt track. Blood darkened the she- 
cat's neck, spreading fast through her thick fur. Her 
flanks trembled as she struggled for each shallow 
breath. 

Other feline shapes moved around Moth Flight, 
hazy in the pale dawn. She snapped her head around 
as a hiss sounded beside her. A huge dark tabby reared 
and smashed his forepaws down onto a smaller black- 
and-white tom. “Why don’t you help her?” Moth Flight 
begged. But neither cat seemed to hear. The tom 
scrabbled desperately at the earth as the tabby pinned 
him down. 

Moth Flight’s thoughts spun. /s this a battle? 

But the other cats weren’t fighting. 

Ginger fur flickered like flame through the ditch as 
a young tom raced to the she-cat's side and crouched 
beside her. Two frightened faces peered over the top 
of the ditch, ears twitching. 


Blood was seeping onto the ground from the she- 
cat’s neck. 

“She’s dying!” Moth Flight yowled to the fighting 
toms. But they only snarled at one another more 
viciously. 

Dread shadowed her heart. Moth Flight raced 
toward the injured she-cat, her paws moving 
soundlessly over the earth. Early sunlight struck her 
flank, but made no shadow on the earth beyond. 

She slid into the ditch and stopped beside the 
flame-colored tom. “What happened to her?” 

The tom didn’t answer. He leaned close to the 
injured she-cat, until his breath stirred her ear fur. 

“Don't die!” Moth Flight reached out to touch the 
she-cat, but her paw passed through the injured cat’s 
flank as if she was cutting through mist. 

Dark fur loomed beside her. The great tabby had 
stopped fighting and come at last. But as he pushed 
past her, Moth Flight felt no weight. His fur brushed 
through her as though she weren’t there. 

The two young cats, watching from the top of the 
ditch, climbed down into the shadows and stood 
trembling beside the ginger tom. She saw the tabby’s 


mouth open and close as he spoke, but she couldn’t 
hear his words. 

Moth Flight held her breath as she saw the blue- 
gray cat’s flanks grow still. 

She s dying! 

The sight of death sliced through Moth Flight like 
an icy wind, and she began to tremble. She 
remembered Gray Wing’s death, just a moon ago. 
She’d shivered as she’d peered into his open grave, 
her heart twisting as she saw how small he looked and 
how dull his fur had become. The warmhearted tom, 
whose pelt had rippled in the wind, had been lost in 
death. Prey seemed to lie in his place. His Clan had 
buried him, eyes hollow with grief, yet at least the 
ceremony had given them a chance to say good-bye. 

“You must bury her,” she breathed shakily. 

But the cats did not move. They only stared at 
their dead friend, hardly blinking as the sun lifted higher 
into the sky. The-black-and-white tom watched from a 
few tail-lengths away, nervously eyeing the tabby. 

“Don’t just stand there!” Frustration raged through 
Moth Flight as she tried to make herself heard. “Show 
her some respect! Start digging her grave.” 


No cat turned or even betrayed with an ear twitch 
that they’d heard her. 

The sun lifted higher until its rays spilled into the 
ditch. 

“Are you going to leave her here for crows to pick 
at?” Moth Flight couldn’t believe what she was seeing. 
Are these cats heartless? 

Suddenly, the blue-gray she-cat’s tail twitched. 

Moth Flight gasped, shock jolting through her. Had 
the wind caught the dead cat’s fur? 

No! 

The blue-gray she-cat was lifting her head, looking 
blearily at the others. 

Moth Flight tried to back away, but the mist 
seemed to entwine her paws, holding her still. She 
stared in disbelief as the she-cat spoke to the flame- 
pelted tom. She was dead! Moth Flight couldn’t make 
out the words but she could see, as the cat’s blue eyes 
cleared, authority in her gaze. It reminded her of her 
own mother’s look. Was this she-cat the group’s 
leader? How was she alive? 

The young cats moved away to let the she-cat 
stand. As she heaved herself slowly to her paws, relief 


washed over their faces. 

But the tabby only stared. His amber gaze 
betrayed nothing—neither relief, nor joy. Moth Flight 
drew in a trembling breath and began to run, 
clambering out of the ditch, her thoughts spinning as 
she tried to make sense of what she’d seen. 

A pale flash caught her eye and she lifted her 
head, surprised to see a great, green moth. Its wide 
translucent wings fluttered in the breeze; dawn 
sunshine flooded through them so they glowed as 
bright as new leaves. 

She watched the moth dance away, realizing that, 
beyond it, she could see Highstones. Their towering 
peaks glittered in the sunshine and Moth Flight 
narrowed her eyes against the glare, straining to see 
the moth as it fluttered toward them. 

Without thinking, she leaped the ditch and began to 
follow the moth as it bobbed over the grass, keeping 
low. I must reach it! She bounded after it as it 
zigzagged like a petal caught on a breeze, staying just 
beyond paw reach. 

It pulled farther ahead until she stumbled to a halt 
and watched it fly away. Moth Flight was surprised by 


a fierce longing in her heart. Wait for me! A wail 
caught in her throat. / want to come with you! 





CHAPTER 1 
+ 


“What are you mumbling about? ” 

Dust Muzzle’s mew jerked Moth Flight awake. 
She blinked open her eyes, narrowing them at once as 
bright afternoon sunshine sliced over the gorse wall of 
the camp. “Was I mumbling?” The dream of the blue- 
gray she-cat and the moth were still sharp in her mind. 
Had she been calling out in her sleep? 

Dust Muzzle paced in front of her. “You said you 
wanted to go with someone.” 

Spotted Fur stopped beside Dust Muzzle, his eyes 
warm with affection. “I thought only old cats took 
afternoon naps.” He nudged Dust Muzzle. “Your sister 
has been hanging out with Rocky too long.” 

Rocky looked up as he heard his name. The old 
ginger-and-white tom blinked from his nest in the long 
grass beside the sandy hollow. “She could learn a lot 
from me,” he grunted. “I’ve seen more moons than the 
three of you put together.” The kittypet had been with 
the Clan for only a few moons—he’d arrived shortly 
after Gray Wing had called the groups of cats Clans 


for the first time, a word that had seemed right the 
moment Gray Wing had said it—but Rocky had taken 
to Clan life like a frog to swimming. He didn’t hunt as 
much as the younger cats, complaining that his paws 
were too slow for chasing. But he loved to help Holly 
and Eagle Feather with their tunneling. Holly was 
always planning new tunnels, digging through old rabbit 
runs to make shortcuts to new ones. 

Moth Flight scrambled to her paws. “I didn’t mean 
to fall asleep, but the sun was so warm.” Leafbare 
was finally loosening its grip on the moor and the 
newleaf sun felt luxurious after hard moons of frost 
and ice. Panic jolted through her. “Where are Slate’s 
kits?” She scanned the clearing, her heart lurching. 
Slate had asked Moth Flight to watch White Tail, Silver 
Stripe, and Black Ear. They’d been playing in the 
sandy hollow when Moth Flight’s eyes had begun to 
grow heavy. She’d only closed them for a moment and 
now the kits were nowhere to be seen. 

She caught Holly’s eye across the camp. The 
black she-cat was washing dirt from her fur, while 
Eagle Feather shook out his dusty pelt beside his 
mother. 


Holly frowned. “Is everything okay, Moth Flight?” 
she called. “You look worried.” 

Moth Flight forced herself to blink brightly. “I’m 
fine,” she assured Holly. 

Dust Muzzle flashed her a look. “Apart from losing 
Slate’s kits,” he breathed. 

“Hush!” Moth Flight headed across the tussocky 
grass. “Perhaps they’re near the stones.” The kits 
liked to chase one another around the smooth flat 
rocks near the camp entrance. 

“T saw them earlier,” Rocky called. 

Moth Flight spun to face him. “Where?” Before he 
could call his answer across the camp for everyone to 
hear, she dashed to his nest and stopped, panting, 
beside him. “Where were they?” she begged. 

“I saw them playing outside camp when we came 
out of the tunnel,” Rocky told her. 

“Whereabouts?” Fear prickled through Moth 
Flight’s pelt. 

“Near the RiverClan border.” 

“You mean the gorge?” Moth Flight’s throat 
tightened. A deep ravine cut through the moor there, a 
river churning at the bottom. It was a dangerous place 


for kits. 

“Not very near,’ Rocky reassured her. “They’re 
too sensible to go close to the edge.” 

“They’re only two moons old!” Moth Flight was 
fighting panic. Slate had trusted her to watch her 
beloved kits. Still mourning the loss of her mate, Gray 
Wing, the gray she-cat often rested after sunhigh, 
weary from her grief. I've let her down! What if 
Silver Stripe fell into the gorge? Or a buzzard 
carried off White Tail? Or Black Ear—stop! Moth 
Flight forced her thoughts to slow. “Why didn’t you 
bring them home with you?” She glared at Rocky. 

“I thought you'd sent them out there.” Rocky 
blinked at her. 

“Why would I do that?” Moth Flight lowered her 
voice to a hiss. “They’re too young to be out of camp. 
They can’t look after themselves.” 

Rocky met her gaze steadily. “I thought that’s what 
you were supposed to be doing,” he grunted. 

A disdainful snort sounded from behind Moth 
Flight. 

She glanced around to where the heather wall of 
the camp shaded a soft grassy border. 


Swift Minnow was eyeing her harshly. “I can tell 
you haven’t been with us long, Rocky,” the gray-and- 
white she-cat meowed. “You clearly don’t know Moth 
Flight very well.” 

“What does that mean?” Moth Flight glared at the 
other cat, her belly twisting as she guessed what Swift 
Minnow was going to say before she’d finished her 
question. 

“You never do what you’re supposed to.” Swift 
Minnow sniffed. “Wind Runner sent you out to catch 
voles yesterday and you came back with leaves from 
some stinking plant.” 

“It wasn’t stinking!” Moth Flight defended herself. 
“And I had to bring it back. I’d never smelled leaves 
like that before.” 

“Leaves don’t feed a Clan,” Swift Minnow shot 
back. 

Rocky pushed himself to his paws and gazed 
gently at the gray-and-white she-cat. “Don’t be too 
harsh, Swift Minnow. Moth Flight’s hardly more than a 
kit herself. Kits get distracted. Everything is new to 
them.” He shrugged and shambled toward a sunny 
patch of clearing, his pelt twitching along his spine 


where tunnel mud caked his fur. 

“Don’t worry.” Spotted Fur’s mew stirred Moth 
Flight’s ear fur. The golden tom leaned closer, his 
dappled pelt glowing in the afternoon sun. “The kits 
will be fine. I’Il help you look for them.” 

Swift Minnow glanced toward the shady hollow in 
the heather wall where Slate was sleeping. “You’d 
better find them before their mother wakes up. She’s 
had enough grief.” 

Moth Flight lifted her chin. “Pl find them!” 
Wishing she felt as sure as she sounded, she marched 
toward the camp entrance. 

Spotted Fur hurried after her. 

Moth Flight glanced back at Dust Muzzle. “Aren’t 
you coming to help?” 

Dust Muzzle rolled his eyes. “Not again! Pm 
always helping you out of trouble. You’ve got Spotted 
Fur to help you. I’m tired from hunting. Let me rest.” 

Moth Flight flicked her tail crossly. But he was 
right. Her brother was always helping her out of 
scrapes. Last half-moon, Wind Runner had sent her 
looking for cobwebs to dress Dew Nose’s scratched 
paw, but the night had been so starry, Moth Flight had 


been distracted by the reflection of the sky glittering in 
a puddle. It had been Dust Muzzle who’d come to 
hurry her up and who had finally found a clump of 
cobwebs among a pile of rocks while she’d been 
spotting patterns in the stars. 

I must learn to focus on what I’m supposed to 
be doing! Otherwise, "ll never— 

“Should we head for the gorge?” Spotted Fur’s 
mew cut into her thoughts. 

“The gorge?” she stopped outside the camp 
entrance and frowned for a moment. Then she hissed, 
angry with herself. Her thoughts had wandered again! 
Promising herself she would try harder, she nodded. 
“Of course. That’s where Rocky saw the kits last.” 

She stared across the wide swaths of brown 
heather rippling softly in the newleaf breeze. Full moon 
was in two days, and in another half-moon, the moor 
would be green with budding leaves, something she 
had only heard older cats talk about. Moth Flight could 
hardly wait for the fresh, clean scent of new life. This 
would be her first newleaf. All she could remember 
was snow and ice and the slow dying of the moorland 
in the moons before leafbare. Now it was all going to 


come back to life again. Excitement fizzed in her 
paws. 

“Moth Flight!” Spotted Fur’s mew was stern this 
time. “We need to find the kits!” 

She shook out her fur, feeling guiltier than ever. 
Why did there have to be so many things to distract 
her? “The kits.” She curled her claws into the grass, 
determined that this time she would stay focused on 
finding them. 

The heather rustled ahead of them and Willow Tail 
slid out from beneath the bushes, a mouse hanging 
from her jaws. She dropped it and looked at Spotted 
Fur. “What’s this about kits?” 

“Tve lost Slate’s—” 

Spotted Fur cut Moth Flight off before she could 
finish her confession. “Slate’s kits have wandered out 
of camp and we’re going to find them.” 

Moth Flight glanced gratefully at her friend. 
“Rocky said he’d seen them near the gorge,” she 
added. 

Willow Tail’s eyes rounded with worry. “I’d better 
come with you. Three noses are better than one.” 
Leaving her mouse, she began to hurry down the slope, 


breaking into a run as she weaved between the clumps 
of heather. Spotted Fur hurried after her and Moth 
Flight ran behind. 

“Keep your mouths open to taste for their scent,” 
Willow Tail called over her shoulder. 

Moth Flight caught up with Spotted Fur, opening 
her jaws to let the moor scents bathe her tongue. The 
smell of warm peat filled her mouth. She narrowed her 
eyes, peering at the slope below, hoping to see a flash 
of familiar fur. “Can you smell them?” she puffed. 

Spotted Fur’s gaze was fixed ahead. “Not yet, but 
with Willow Tail helping we’re bound to find them 
quickly.” 

Willow Tail had slowed as the slope steepened 
toward the gorge. She darted this way and that, 
sniffing the grass around the edge of a gorse patch. 
“Check that stretch of heather,” she called to Spotted 
Fur. 

“Where should / look?” Moth Flight called. 

“Stay with Spotted Fur,” Willow Tail called back. 
“We don’t want you getting lost too.” 

Moth Flight’s pelt prickled. Did every cat in 
WindClan think she was as useless as thistledown? 


Obediently, she slid between the heather bushes after 
Spotted Fur. 

A distant tang touched her nose. “I can smell the 
river.” 

“From here?” Spotted Fur turned to face her, 
heather crowding in on either side and arching over 
their heads. 

“I can smell the water plants that line it.” Moth 
Flight felt a pang of longing. “I’ve always wanted to go 
and see them up close and pick a few. Water plants 
are so interesting. Why don’t they drown? Don’t they 
need wind like moor plants?” 

“You can’t go picking plants in RiverClan 
territory,’ Spotted Fur warned her. “Wind Runner says 
if there’s to be peace between the Clans, then we have 
to stay on our own lands.” 

Moth Flight felt a prickle of frustration. “How will 
we learn anything if we just stick to what we know?” 

As she spoke, she saw Spotted Fur stiffen. Alarm 
sparked in his gaze. 

“What’s wrong?” Fear pricked her paws. 

“Listen!” Spotted Fur’s ears were stretched. 

Moth Flight stretched hers too, straining to hear 


what he had heard. 

The faint wail of a kit sounded through the heather. 

Then Willow Tail’s frightened yowl sounded from 
downslope. “Spotted Fur! Come quickly!” 

“The kits are in trouble!” Spotted Fur plunged 
through the heather. 

Heart pounding in her ears, Moth Flight raced after 
him. 





CHAPTER 2 
+ 


She crashed through the heather, hardly feeling the 
branches scrape her flanks, and exploded onto the 
grass a moment after Spotted Fur. He was already 
scanning the slope and she followed his gaze. 

Willow Tail crouched in a dip near the edge of the 
gorse patch. The pale tabby she-cat was peering into a 
narrow rabbit burrow. “It’s all right, Silver Stripe. We’ ll 
get you out.” 

A plaintive wail answered her. “Hurry! Please! I'm 
scared!” 

White Tail—no bigger than a rabbit-kit—appeared, 
nosing past Willow Tail and peering into the burrow. 
“She’s been there for ages!” 

Black Ear paced around them, his fluffy black-and- 
white fur bushed out. “We tried to reach her but she’s 
too far down.” 

They're okay! Relief swelled in Moth Flight’s 
chest, then she froze. Black Ear and White Tail were 
safe, but what about Silver Stripe? 

Spotted Fur charged toward his Clanmate. “What 


happened?” 

Willow Tail’s ears twitched. “Looks like Silver 
Stripe fell into a tunnel and she can’t get out, the poor 
kit. She’s scared half to death but the hole’s too 
narrow for me to squeeze through.” 

Moth Flight caught up, skidding to a halt and 
peering into the small gap in the grass where Silver 
Stripe’s wails were growing louder. “Are you hurt?” 
she called down. 

“Not yet,” Silver Stripe squeaked nervously. “But 
I’m sure I can hear paw steps coming up the tunnel 
toward me!” 

Black Ear’s eyes widened. “A badger!” 

White Tail unsheathed his tiny claws. “PI save 
her.” He stuck his head into the hole and began to 
burrow into the tunnel. 

“No you don’t!” Spotted Fur grabbed his tail 
between his teeth and hauled the kit backward. “We’re 
not losing two of you.” 

Black Ear tried to scrabble free. “But what about 
the badger?” 

“That tunnel’s too small for a badger,’ Willow Tail 
assured him. 


White Tail blinked at the tom. “What about rats?” 

Moth Flight’s heart quickened, her fear spilling into 
anger. “Why didn’t you just stay in camp?” she 
snapped at the kits. 

Black Ear met her gaze innocently. “We were 
going to ask you if we could leave, but you were 
asleep.” 

Willow Tail flashed her a look. “Were you 
supposed to be watching them?” 

Moth Flight dropped her gaze guiltily. “Yes,” she 
confessed, her fur rippling with irritation. Why did Slate 
have to ask her to watch her kits? Everyone knows 
I'ma featherbrain! 

Spotted Fur pushed past her and began tearing at 
the grass around the narrow tunnel entrance. “Let’s 
just get Silver Stripe out. I can’t smell rat scent down 
there, but she must be cold and hungry.” 

Willow Tail nodded and hooked her claws into the 
earth, ripping away another clump. Together they dug 
out soil around the rim. Moth Flight found herself 
watching the grassy clods as her Clanmates flung them 
aside. They exploded as they hit the ground; the soil 
here wasn’t as dark and wet as it was on the high 


moor. And she noticed that the grass was softer too, 
nothing like the stiff grass around camp; it smelled 
lusher too. 

“Stop staring and help!” Willow Tail’s sharp mew 
broke into her thoughts. 

Moth Flight hopped forward, tripping over Black 
Ear. He squeaked as her paw squashed his tail, then 
dragged it free and glared at her indignantly. 

“Sorry!” Moth Flight plunged her forepaws into the 
hole beside Spotted Fur’s and began scraping out soil. 
She could see Silver Stripe’s muzzle, lit by the late 
sunshine that broke into the widening hole. The earth 
was easy to scrape away—lighter and crumblier than 
the heavy peat higher on the moor. Moth Flight 
wondered if different plants grew here and, as she 
helped Willow Tail and Spotted Fur dig, glanced 
furtively around, looking for unusual leaf shapes 
showing in the grass nearby. 

“That should be big enough.” Willow Tail sat back 
on her haunches. 

Spotted Fur frowned. “It’s too small for me to fit 
in.” 

Silver Stripe was already trying to scrabble up the 


steep sides of the hole, yowling with frustration each 
time she slid down as the earth crumbled beneath her 
claws. 

“You 're small enough to squeeze in.” Willow Tail 
stared at Moth Flight. “Jump down and give him a 
boost.” 

Moth Flight hesitated. She knew that some of the 
WindClan cats liked running though the rabbit tunnels. 
Holly often took Fagle Feather and Dew Nose hunting 
there. But Moth Flight preferred to feel the wind in her 
fur. 

Spotted Fur nudged her shoulder with his muzzle. 
“Don't think about the dark,” he urged gently. “Silver 
Stripe needs help.” 

Steadymg her breath, Moth Flight slithered into the 
hole. Her paws slipped as she reached the bottom, and 
she nearly fell. A cold musky smell swirled around her. 
She shivered, the darkness of the tunnel pressing 
around her until her belly tightened with fear. 

“You saved me!” Silver Stripe flung herself against 
Moth Flight, purring loudly. Moth Flight suddenly 
realized how brave the young kit had been, trapped 
alone down here for so long. 


She peered, blinking, into the blackness beyond the 
kit, wondering with a shiver how far the tunnel 
stretched and what might be at the end of it. She 
sniffed for rat scent, pricking her ears to listen for the 
slither of tails. Nothing. The tunnel was clear. “I’m 
sorry I fell asleep,” she whispered into Silver Stripe’s 
soft ear. “I should have been watching you.” 

Silver Stripe’s cold muzzle brushed her cheek. “Pm 
sorry we ran off,” she apologized, her mew thick. 

“Let’s get you out of here.” Moth Flight ducked 
and tucked her nose beneath the kits haunches. 
“Jump!” she ordered, her mew muffled by fur. As 
Silver Stripe leaped, Moth Flight heaved her upward. 
She smelled Spotted Fur’s warm breath as he reached 
down and grabbed the kit’s scruff, scooping her into 
the light. 

“Silver Stripe!” White Tail squeaked happily. 

Black Ear mewled with excitement. “We thought 
rats would get you for sure.” 

Spotted Fur purred. “Are you coming, Moth 
Flight?” 

Moth Flight hardly heard him. As she stared at the 
ring of light above her, a sharp tang touched her nose. 


She opened her mouth, intrigued. There was an 
unfamiliar sour scent mingled in with the heavy smell 
of earth. She glanced down the tunnel, widening her 
eyes to adjust to the gloom. White roots dangled from 
the roof of the tunnel a tail-length away. They didn’t 
smell like grass roots. Or heather. Or gorse. J knew 
there must be special plants growing in this sandy 
soil! Her heart quickening, Moth Flight padded deeper 
into the darkness until her face brushed the roots. 
Sticking out her tongue, she licked them gingerly, 
intrigued by their sweet flavor. J wonder what the 
leaves of this plant look like? Moth Flight knew that 
she wasn’t far from the surface. Leaning back on her 
haunches, she began to dig upward, through the earth 
around the roots. If she could just claw away a few 
pawfuls of soil, she’d be able to drag the whole plant 
down and look at it properly. 

“Moth Flight?” Spotted Fur’s mew echoed along 
the tunnel. “Where are you?” 

“Coming,” she called back absently. Dirt spilled 
onto her tongue as she spoke, and she coughed, spitting 
it out. 

“Hurry up!” Willow Tail’s mew was sharper than 


Spotted Fur’s. “We need to get these kits back to their 
mother. They’re tired and hungry!” 

“I won't be long!” Moth Flight scrabbled harder at 
the soil above her head, screwing up her eyes against 
the earth, which showered her face. The roots were 
thicker, higher up, and she curled her claws into their 
flesh and tugged. They slid free, bringing pawfuls of 
dirt with them as Moth Flight dragged the plant down 
into the tunnel. Laying it on the ground, she tried to 
make out the shape of the leaves. 

“Moth Flight!” Willow Tail sounded angry. “We 
need you up here!” 

Moth Flight grasped the plant between her jaws 
and raced back along the tunnel. Reaching up, she 
scrambled out, thankful to feel Spotted Fur’s teeth in 
her scruff as he helped haul her free of the crumbling 
earth. 

“What, in all the stars, is that?” Willow Tail stared 
at the plant dangling from Moth Flight’s jaws. 

Moth Flight dropped it, spitting out dirt. “I don’t 
know,” she spluttered. “But I want to find out.” 

Willow Tail glared at her. “You’re not bringing it 
with you,” she snapped. “These kits are two moons old 


and too tired to walk back to camp. They need 
carrying.” 

Moth Flight’s heart sank. She glanced at the plant 
she’d unearthed. Its bright green leaves had scalloped 
edges and it smelled pungent—almost how she 
imagined RiverClan water plants would smell. “I can’t 
leave it behind!” She knew all the plants on the high 
moor. This was new! She looked hopefully at Spotted 
Fur. “Can’t one of the kits ride on your back?” 

“PI ride,” Black Ear offered. His eyes were dull 
with tiredness. “It’s better than being carried.” 

Willow Tail snorted at Moth Flight. “Do you really 
think he’ll have the strength to hang on to Spotted 
Fur’s back all the way to camp?” 

Spotted Fur glanced apologetically at Moth Flight. 
“Willow Tail’s right. These kits need to be carried.” 

“I can make it,” Black Ear promised. “I know I 
can.” 

“Of course you can.” Spotted Fur soothed the 
young kit. “But it'll be easier for me if you let Moth 
Flight carry you.” 

Moth Flight sighed. “Okay.” The plant would have 

to wait. “I guess I can come back and fetch this later.” 


She stroked the soft leaves with her paw. They felt 
furry. 

Willow Tail’s ears twitched impatiently. “What do 
you want with a dead weed anyway?” 

Moth Flight shrugged. “It's interesting.” 

Willow Tail shook her head, sighing. “Cats are 
meant to hunt prey, not plants.” 

Spotted Fur nosed Black Ear gently toward Moth 
Flight. “If all cats were the same, life would be dull,” 
he meowed softly. 

Willow Tail huffed disapprovingly and scooped up 
Silver Stripe by her scruff. 

Spotted Fur lifted White Tail and Moth Flight 
grasped Black Ear gently between her jaws and lifted 
him off the ground. He was as light as prey and she 
suddenly realized how vulnerable the kits had been out 
here on their own. A fresh flash of guilt shot though 
her as she followed Willow Tail and Spotted Fur up the 
slope toward camp. 

Black Ear swung limply from her jaws. He didn’t 
scrabble or fidget like he did when she was trying to 
get him into his nest in the evenings. He must be 
exhausted. She quickened her pace, falling into step 


beside Spotted Fur. 

They slid into single file as they approached a thick 
swath of heather. Willow Tail pushed into it first. 
Spotted Fur waited for Moth Flight to duck in front of 
him. She followed Willow Tail through the branches to 
where an old sheep trail cut through the bushes. 
Spotted Fur’s breath tickled her tail as he traced her 
paw steps. 

As they neared the far edge of the heather patch, 
Willow Tail slowed. The pale tabby’s ears pricked and 
Moth Flight stiffened. Had Willow Tail heard 
something? A badger? A dog? Moth Flight breathed 
deeply, but all she could taste was Black Ear’s warm 
scent. Willow Tail put Silver Stripe down and pushed 
her way out of the heather. 

“What’s wrong?” Spotted Fur slid past Moth Flight 
and dropped White Tail beside Silver Stripe. 

Black Ear began to struggle. “What’s that smell?” 

As Moth Flight placed him gently beside his 
littermates, she smelled the strong tang of a strange 
tom. 

Spotted Fur’s hackles lifted. “Wait here with the 
kits.” He slid out of the heather after Willow Tail. 


“It’s just a SkyClan tom!” Moth Flight could smell 
the fragrant scent of bark mingling with the tom’s own 
scent. It was completely different from the heathery 
scent of her Clanmates. RiverClan smelled fishy, 
ShadowClan like pine. And ThunderClan always 
carried the musty scent of the leaf litter that softened 
the floor of their ravine. 

Why were Willow Tail and Spotted Fur so edgy? 

Moth Flight shooed the kits ahead of her as she 
nosed her way out of the heather. A large reddish- 
brown tom was stretching languorously on a sunlit 
patch of grass. She recognized him at once. She’d 
seen him at Gatherings. He was Red Claw. Willow Tail 
must know him well —they’d been rogues together 
before they’d chosen different Clans. 

Then why was she snarling at him, her ears flat 
against her head? 

“What are you doing on WindClan land?” Willow 
Tail hissed accusingly. 

Moth Flight glanced questioningly toward Spotted 
Fur. The tabby she-cat sounded furious. Why was she 
so bothered about the tom? He was doing no harm. 

As Spotted Fur shrugged in reply, Red Claw lifted 


his head and blinked at them lazily. “I came up here to 
enjoy the sunshine. It’s too shady in the woods.” 

Willow Tail spat. “You shouldn’t be here! This is 
our land.” 

Black Ear began to march forward, showing his 
teeth. “Yeah, this is our land!” he squeaked. 

Red Claw glanced at the kit, amusement 
brightening his gaze. “I’m not hunting. So where’s the 
harm?” 

Spotted Tail cocked his head. “How do we know 
you’re not hunting?” he asked. 

Willow Tail bared her teeth at Red Claw. “We 
don’t! Listen, I don’t want you on WindClan land. 
You’ ll bring trouble. You always do!” 

Moth Flight pricked her ears. Did Willow Tail know 
something about Red Claw the rest of the Clan didn’t? 
Was he dangerous? Moth Flight instinctively moved 
closer to the kits, sweeping her tail around them to 
draw them near. 

Black Ear tried to wriggle free, but Spotted Fur 
froze him with a warning look. 

Pushing himself to his paws, Red Claw faced 
Willow Tail, his eyes glittering. “You’re not WindClan’s 


leader,” he growled. “Or SkyClan’s. You can’t tell me 
what to do.” 

Willow Tail unsheathed her claws. 

Spotted Fur padded between the bristling cats. 
“This isn’t worth fighting over,” he mewed softly. “We 
may not be Wind Runner, but we can certainly take 
this back to her and ask what she thinks. Is that what 
you want?” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws uneasily. What would 
Wind Runner say? Wind Runner claimed that the 
borders had been established to make sure each Clan 
had enough prey to feed themselves, but there was 
more than enough prey on the moor and in the forests 
to feed every cat. Besides, Red Claw wasn’t even 
hunting. Still... Wind Runner seemed especially edgy 
where Clear Sky, and SkyClan, were concerned. 

Red Claw was eyeing Spotted Fur with 
annoyance. “I’m just a tired cat enjoying a rest in a 
sunny clearing that happens to be a few tail-lengths 
across the border. Do you think your leader would 
care?” 

Spotted Fur narrowed his eyes. “Again, I could go 
and ask her, if you’d like.” Red Claw scowled, and 


Spotted Fur went on. “Look, I don’t want any trouble. 
You chose to join SkyClan. There must be a sunny 
clearing somewhere in your own territory.” 

Red Claw’s tail flicked angrily. “Fine.” Turning 
away, he stalked toward the heather. 

Silver Stripe stared at Moth Flight. “Who was he?” 

“Just a SkyClan cat,” she said. She wasn’t entirely 
sure why things had gotten so tense, but she didn’t 
want the kits to worry. 

Black Ear hopped over her tail and padded a few 
steps toward the grass Red Claw had flattened. His 
small nose was twitching with curiosity. “Are SkyClan 
cats bad?” 

Moth Flight felt a prickle of irritation. “Of course 
not. They’re just like you and me.” She didn’t 
understand why there had to be lines scratched 
between the Clans. Borders just seemed to make 
everyone suspicious of each other. What if there was a 
harsh leafbare or a dry greenleaf? Would one Clan let 
another starve or go thirsty rather than share their 
hunting lands? 

Willow Tails pelt was still bristling. “We should 
follow him to make sure he leaves. You can’t trust 


SkyClan cats.” 

Moth Flight glanced crossly at Willow Tail. “Don’t 
say that in front of the kits!” There was enough gossip 
in camp about ThunderClan cats being reckless, 
ShadowClan cats being unfriendly, and RiverClan cats 
being odd. Making up differences between the Clans 
was just planting trouble for the future. A new thought 
struck her, making her pelt prick warily. / wonder 
what the other Clans say about us? 

“We should get the kits back to Slate,” Spotted Fur 
meowed. 

Moth Flight was suddenly aware that White Tail 
was shivering against her belly. “He’s right. They’re 
getting cold.” 

“You didn’t seem worried about that while you 
were digging out your precious weed.” Willow Tail 
stared fiercely at the heather where Red Claw had 
disappeared. “What if he stays on our land?” 

“Who cares?” Moth Flight grasped White Tail’s 
scruff and began to pad toward camp, annoyed at the 
older she-cat. Its not a weed, its a plant! And she 
made me leave it behind for the sake of the kits. 
Now she wants to go chasing after a SkyClan cat. 


‘Tm sure he’ll leave,” Spotted Fur assured Willow 
Tail, gathering her in with his tail. “Even SkyClan cats 
know better than to tangle with Wind Runner. Now 
let’s get the kits home.” 

Willow Tail watched the heather for a few 
moments more, then sighed and began walking back 
toward camp. “All right.” 

Soon, Moth Flight could see the dip where their 
camp nestled into the hillside and, after a few more 
paw steps, its heather walls showed against the 
windswept grass. They were nearly home. 

Spotted Fur fell in beside her, Black Ear dangling 
from his jaws. 

She frowned, wondering why he’d been so tough 
on Red Claw, then she heard a yowl. 

Slate was bounding from the camp, Wind Runner 
at her heels. 

“Are they okay? Are they safe?” Slate skidded to 
a halt, her eyes round with fear. 

Spotted Fur placed Black Ear at her paws. 
“They’re a bit cold and hungry, but no harm done.” 

Moth Flight put White Tail gently down. The kit ran 
at once to his mother and nuzzled into her soft gray 


flank. 

Silver Stripe wailed, struggling in Willow Tail’s 
jaws. “I fell down a rabbit hole!” Willow Tail dropped 
her and she raced toward Slate. “Moth Flight had to 
climb down and push me out.” 

“She was in there for ages!” White Tail told Slate. 

“We thought a badger was going to eat her!” 
Black Ear added. 

Slate pulled her kits to her belly, her eyes glistening 
even brighter with worry. 

Spotted Fur brushed Moth Flight’s flank with his 
tail. “It was just a rabbit hole,” he told Slate. “Too 
small for badgers. We had to dig it open before Moth 
Flight could squeeze in and rescue her.” 

Moth Flight felt a wave of gratitude toward her 
friend. Spotted Fur always defends me. But then she 
caught Wind Runner’s eye and her belly tightened. 

Her mother was glaring at her. “You were asked to 
watch them, Moth Flight.” 

Moth Flight stared at her paws, shame worming 
beneath her pelt. “I’m sorry.” 

Slate began lapping her kits furiously. “It was my 
fault,” she murmured between licks. “I was in a hurry 


to lie down. I should have asked someone more 
reliable to keep an eye on them, like Fern Leaf, but she 
was hunting.” 

Her words raked Moth Flight like claws. She 
glanced nervously at her mother. Wind Runner’s eyes 
were burning with rage. 

The WindClan leader growled. “Moth Flight is old 
enough to know better. Her Clanmates should be able 
to rely on her.” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws. “It won’t happen 
again,” she mumbled. 

“T wish I could believe you,” Wind Runner hissed. 
“How does it look to the Clan if my own kit can’t be 
trusted?” 

Moth Flight flinched. Why did her mother have to 
be the Clan leader? Everything I do must be an 
example to the Clan! And if she got anything wrong, 
she was letting the whole Clan down. Resentment 
burned in her belly as she watched Slate fussing over 
her kits. 7 bet she doesnt expect them to be perfect 
all the time! 

Gray fur flashed at the camp entrance. Her father, 
Gorse Fur, was hurrying toward them, Dust Muzzle 


and Fern Leaf at his heels. “You found them!” He 
stared proudly at Moth Flight. 

“She /ost them!” Wind Runner snapped. 

Dust Muzzle’s eyes rounded with sympathy as he 
caught sight of Moth Flight. She saw him exchange 
glances with Spotted Fur. This was so humiliating. Did 
Wind Runner have to scold her in front of every cat? 

Spotted Fur seemed to guess her thoughts. “Let’s 
get the kits into camp,” he suggested. “It’s more 
sheltered there.” Wind was tugging at their fur. He 
began to nose Silver Stripe, Black Ear, and White Tail 
toward the camp entrance, then glanced at Willow Tail. 
“Are you coming?” 

The pale tabby shook her head. “I’m going to 
follow Red Claw’s scent,” she growled. “I want to 
make sure he crossed the border.” 

Wind Runner narrowed her eyes. “Was Red Claw 
on our land?” 

Moth Flight lifted her head sharply. “He wasn’t 
hunting. He just wanted to lie in the sun.” 

“They have sun in SkyClan,’ Wind Runner 
answered sharply. She nodded toward Willow Tail. “Go 
make sure he’s left our territory.” 


“TI go with you,” Fern Leaf offered, following 
Willow Tail. 

“Why do we have to have all this fuss about 
borders?” Moth Flight blurted. 

Wind Runner silenced her with a look. “You 
weren’t around for the great battle. If you had been, 
you’d understand.” There was darkness in her gaze. 

Moth Flight curled her claws into the ground. / 
dont know why I bother opening my mouth. Her fur 
pricked angrily along her spine as Willow Tail headed 
away. Then she remembered her plant. She had to 
fetch it before a rabbit ate it or the wind blew it away. 
She turned and began to pad downslope. 

“Where are you going?” Wind Runner snapped. 

Moth Flight halted. What was wrong now? “I have 
to fetch a new plant I discovered.” 

“No you don’t.” Wind Runner’s mew was hard 
with anger. Gorse Fur nosed past the Clan leader and 
met Moth Flight’s gaze. “Your mother wants us to go 
hunting together.” 

But my plant! Moth Flight’s heart sank. What was 
the point in arguing? Wind Runner would never 
understand. 


Dust Muzzle weaved around her. “Come on,” he 
murmured to her softly. “Hunting will put us all in a 
good mood.” He snatched a glance at Wind Runner. 

Moth Flight huffed. “Yeah, right.” 

Gorse Fur sniffed the air. “I smell rabbit!” Lifting 
his tail, he raced across the grass. Wind Runner shot 
Moth Flight a final searing look, and bounded after him. 

Dust Muzzle nudged Moth Flight with his shoulder. 
“Come on. She can’t be angry forever.” 

Moth Flight stared after her mother. The lithe 
tabby moved with expert speed across the grass, her 
tail low, and her shoulders pumping rhythmically. Why 
did Wind Runner have to be so good at everything? 

Dust Muzzle darted away. ‘Pll race you!” he 
called over his shoulder. 

Moth Flight hurried after him, her heart like a stone 
in her chest. Her brother’s words rang in her ears as 
her paws thrummed the earth. She cant be angry 
forever. Wind streamed through her fur. 

With a daughter like me, she probably can. 





CHAPTER 3 
+ 


Gorse Fur pulled up sharply as the slope steepened 
toward the moortop. Moth Flight was out of breath and 
relieved to see Wind Runner halt beside her mate. 
Dust Muzzle reached them first. She couldn't help 
noticing that he was hardly panting as she scrambled to 
a halt beside him. 

Wind Runner surveyed the moor, her pelt rippling 
the chilly breeze. Moth Flight gazed past her, staring 
across the wide valley that dipped behind them to 
Highstones. The sun burned orange in the pale blue 
sky and, as it sank toward the craggy peaks, Moth 
Flight watched their vast shadow fall across the moor 
and fold it in darkness. She suddenly felt very small. 

“Moth Flight!” Her mother’s stern mew made her 
jump. 

“What?” 

“Didn’t you hear me?” 

Moth Flight stared in dismay. No. 

“I told you to go with Dust Muzzle and hunt out the 
prey around that gorse patch.” Wind Runner nodded 


toward a clump of prickly bushes downslope. “Gorse 
Fur and I will check the high burrows for rabbits.” 

Dust Muzzle frowned. “Can’t I hunt rabbits too?” 

“Stay with your sister,’ Wind Runner told him. 
“She’s not fast enough for rabbits and if I let her hunt 
alone, she’Il probably end up bringing home nothing but 
leaves.” She stared at Moth Flight. “And leaves don’t 
fill empty bellies.” 

Moth Flight turned away and stomped down the 
slope. 

Dust Muzzle quickly caught up. “Ignore her,” he 
advised. “Her bad mood won't last.” 

“It's my fault she’s in a bad mood in the first 
place.” Moth Flight padded on, not looking at her 
brother. “She’s going to torture me all day just because 
I fell asleep.” 

“You were supposed to be looking after Slate’s 
kits,” Dust Muzzle reminded her gently. 

“They were okay, weren’t they? I rescued them 
Moth Flight lashed her tail. It wasn’t like she didn’t try 
to be a good cat. “Why can’t Wind Runner be pleased 
with that?” 

Dust Muzzle didn’t answer, but walked closer to 


y» 


Moth Flight, his pelt brushing hers. “Let’s forget about 
it and catch something tasty.” He slowed as they 
neared the gorse. 

The grass around the prickly bushes rippled like 
water in the wind. Moth Flight flattened her ears to 
block out the sound of the breeze. She tasted the air, 
hoping for prey scent. Dust Muzzle was right. If she 
could take home some prey, Wind Runner would be 
pleased, surely? 

Dust Muzzle halted. “I wonder if Willow Tail 
caught up with Red Claw?” 

“I hope not.” Moth Flight remembered Willow 
Tail’s anger at the SkyClan cat. “What if she starts a 
fight? She might get hurt.” 

“She wouldn’t attack him on her own.” Dust 
Muzzle lifted his muzzle, tasting the air. “She’s not a 
rabbit-brain.” 

“But she seemed so angry with him.” Moth Flight 
fretted. “I know he was on our land, but he wasn’t 
hunting. It was like Willow Tail wanted to pick a fight 
with him.” 

“Maybe.” Dust Muzzle’s gaze was fixed on the 
shadows beneath the gorse. “But she and Wind 


Runner were right, too: They have sunny clearings on 
SkyClan territory. Maybe he was up to something.” 

“Maybe,” Moth Flight murmured. But she didn’t 
believe it. 

Am I crazy to trust Red Claw? 

“Anyway,” Dust Muzzle went on, “the next 
Gathering’s the day after tomorrow. We can see if she 
causes more trouble then.” 

Moth Flight was still thinking. “They were rogues 
together,” she began, relishing the gossip. It was a nice 
change from worrying about Wind Runner. But as she 
spoke, Dust Muzzle dropped into a crouch. 

Moth Flight froze and followed his gaze. A shrew 
was rooting in the grass below a gorse branch. 

Her paws itched with excitement. “Let me catch 
it!” she whispered. 

Dust Muzzle gave a tiny nod, his gaze still on the 
shrew. 

Sinking low, Moth Flight crept forward. The shrew 
buried its snout deep into the grass. It has no idea I’m 
here. Delighted, Moth Flight leaped, pushing hard with 
her hind legs. Too hard! She sailed into the gorse, 
crashing through the branches. The prickles stabbed 


her nose and she screwed up her eyes to protect them. 
Recoiling with a yowl, she tripped over Dust Muzzle as 
he darted past her. 

Finding her paws, she rubbed her nose, wincing at 
the sting. 

A moment later Dust Muzzle scrambled from 
beneath the bush. The shrew dangled from his jaws, 
dead. 

“You got it!” Moth Flight blinked at him proudly. “I 
wish I was as good at hunting as you.” 

Dust Muzzle laid the shrew at her paws. “You will 
be one day. Until then, why don’t we tell Wind Runner 
you caught this?” 

Moth Flight bristled. “I don’t need your help!” she 
snapped, then felt instantly guilty as hurt flashed in her 
brother’s eyes. “I’m sorry. That’s really kind of you. 
But I’m not going to pretend to be something I’m not. 
I’m useless at hunting.” 

“You just need practice.” Dust Muzzle leaned 
forward and licked her nose. “You’re bleeding,” he 
mewed as he pulled away. 

“I am?” Moth Flight sighed. Wind Runner would 
guess she’d crashed into the gorse bush. 


“Give it a wash,” Dust Muzzle suggested. “Tt’ll 
hardly show.” He scooped up the shrew and headed 
upslope. 

“Aren’t we hunting anymore?” Moth Flight called 
after him. 

“T think we’ve frightened away all the prey around 
here.” Dust Muzzle’s mew was muffled by the shrew. 
“Let’s help Wind Runner and Gorse Fur hunt rabbits.” 

Moth Flight followed him, her ears twitching. She’d 
ruined the hunt. 

As they neared the burrows dotting the high moor, 
Moth Flight was surprised to see her parents sitting 
side by side. Why weren’t they hunting? They faced 
Highstones, their backs to Moth Flight and Dust 
Muzzle. Wind ruffled their fur, and their heads were 
bent in conversation. 

Their words caught on the wind as she and Dust 
Muzzle neared. 

“Don’t be so hard on her.” Gorse Fur was 
pleading. 

Moth Flight slowed, Dust Muzzle slowing with her. 

“Its about time she grew up and took 
responsibility,’ Wind Runner snapped. “She’s not a kit 


anymore. I don’t make allowances for the rest of my 
Clan! Why should I make them for her?” 

Moth Flight felt Dust Muzzle glance at her. Her 
pelt prickled uncomfortably along her spine and she 
didn’t return his gaze. Her parents were talking about 
her! 

“She’s not irresponsible,’ Gorse Fur argued, his 
tone hardening. “She just notices things other cats 
don’t. She gets distracted, that’s all.” 

“When there are mouths to feed and kits to 
protect, she shouldn’t be distracted,’ Wind Runner’s 
tail lashed behind her. “Dust Muzzle isn’t always 
getting into trouble. Why can’t she be more like him?” 

“Dust Muzzle will make a fine hunter one day, but 
Moth Flight is special,’ Gorse Fur pressed. “Can’t you 
see that?” 

Wind Runner stared at her mate, blankly. 
“WindClan doesn’t need special cats. It needs hunters 
and fighters!” 

Special! Moth Flight growled. “They think I’m 
rabbit-brained!” she said softly. 

Dust Muzzle dropped the shrew. “Gorse Fur is just 
trying to explain that you’ re different from other cats.” 


Moth Flight glared at him. “You think I’m 
different, too?” 

“Not in a bad way.” Dust Muzzle blinked at her 
uneasily. 

“T don’t want to be different!” Moth Flight hissed. 

“Moth Flight!” Gorse Fur turned. “Are you two 
back already?” His mew was sharp with surprise. 

Wind Runner was staring at the shrew. “Is that all 
you caught?” 

“That’s all there was,” Dust Muzzle dipped his 
head. 

Wind Runner snorted. “I suppose Moth Flight 
tripped over her tail and scared the other prey away.” 

Moth Flight couldn’t meet her mother’s gaze. 
She’d guessed right away that it was her fault, without 
even noticing the scratch on her nose. Moth Flight 
clenched her teeth, anger and hurt pulsing through her. 
I can be just as good as any other Clan cat! 
Determined to impress her mother, she scanned the 
moortop desperately for something she could catch. 
With a rush of relief she spotted a lapwing, stalking 
through the rippling grass beyond the rise. She dropped 
into a crouch and padded toward tt. 


Just watch me! 

The lapwing was stabbing its beak into the earth, 
twitching as it caught something and began to tug. 

Moth Flight's breathing quickened as she willed the 
bird’s prey to resist and keep the lapwing distracted. 
Just for a few moments! She was a fox-length away 
now, her tail swishing over the grass with excitement. 

The lapwing froze, its eye catching sight of her and 
sparking with panic. 

Moth Flight leaped, stretching out her paws wildly 
as the lapwing flapped into the air. She tried to reach 
up, twisting. Her claw grazed a talon as the wind from 
its wings blasted her face and she landed with a 
whump on her side. 

Embarrassed, she scrambled to her paws. / nearly 
had it! Disappomtment swamped her as she looked 
around to see Wind Runner shaking her head sadly. 

Gorse Fur hurried toward her. “Great try, Moth 
Flight.” 

Dust Muzzle followed close at his father’s paws. 
“Lapwings are hard to catch,” he sympathized. 

Gorse Fur stopped beside her. “Your tail gave you 
away,” he told her gently. “No matter how excited you 


feel, you must keep it still and lift it just above the 
ground so you can move silently. We might be smarter 
than prey, but prey knows what to listen for and, if it 
hears anything unusual, instinct will send it fleeing in 
the blink of an eye.” 

Moth Flight hung her head. “I let it get away.” 

“Don't worry,” Gorse Fur told her cheerfully. 
“You ve learned something. That's what's important. 
You'll be catching lapwings before long.” 

“Dust Muzzle caught one a few days ago,” Moth 
Flight mumbled miserably. 

“Dust Muzzle’s had more practice than you,” 
Gorse Fur reassured her. 

I’m so sorry. Moth Flight knew that Gorse Fur 
must feel as disappomted in her as Wind Runner, 
despite his kind words. She shook out her fur and 
looked at him as brightly as she could manage. “PI get 
better, I promise.” 

He purred. “Of course you will.” 

She glanced toward Wind Runner, but her mother 
was crouching beside a burrow entrance, her ears 
pricked and her gaze fixed on the dark opening. 

Gorse Fur followed her gaze. “I'd better go and 


help,” he meowed. “Why don’t you join me?” He 
glanced from Moth Flight to Dust Muzzle, but Dust 
Muzzle’s attention was fixed on the grassy slope. His 
ears were pricked and he opened his mouth as though 
tasting for prey. 

“TI be back after I’ve caught that vole,’ he 
whispered, heading downslope. He crossed the grass, 
his paw steps silent, his tail still. 

Gorse Fur nudged Moth Flight toward the rabbit 
burrows. “If you see a rabbit running, do you 
remember what to do?” 

Moth Flight frowned. “Chase it?” she offered 
hopefully. 

Gorse Fur’s ear twitched. “Head where it’s looking 
and cut off its escape route. Outrunning a rabbit is 
hard. Outthinking it is easy.” 

He quickened his pace, breaking into a trot. Moth 
Flight followed slowly, sighing as her father caught up 
with Wind Runner. The Clan leader beckoned her mate 
on with a flick of her muzzle and he raced away to 
another hole farther along the rise. 

Moth Flight wound her way around the burrows 
dotting the rise. She wanted to keep her distance from 


Wind Runner. If her mother managed to flush out a 
young rabbit, she didn’t want to scare it down another 
hole. 

The sun was touching Highstones, turning the 
peaks orange. Moth Flight shivered as the evening chill 
reached through her fur. She remembered her dream. 
It had been so vivid it was hard to believe that she 
hadn’t actually been there while the blue-gray cat died 
beside her friends. But she didnt die! Moth Flight 
frowned. She came back to life... after she looked 
so lifeless. She remembered the fear in the eyes of 
the flame-pelted tom and the dark, unreadable gaze of 
the tabby. She could almost believe that these cats 
were real, not just figments of her imagination. When 
the blue-gray cat had suddenly twitched after such 
stillness, none of the cats had seemed shocked—only 
relieved. lt was as if they knew it would happen! 

“Moth Flight!” 

Wind Runner’s cry sounded at the edge of her 
thoughts, no more than the rushing of the wind. She 
hardly heard her mother. Her thoughts were filled with 
her dream. The blood on the blue-gray cat’s fur had 
spread so quickly through her matted pelt. How could 


any cat have survived such a wound? 

“Moth Flight?’ Wind Runner’s angry yowl pierced 
her ear fur. A rabbit pelted past her, then her mother’s 
pelt flashed at the edge of her vision and she heard 
grass tear beneath skidding claws as Wind Runner 
slowed to a halt a tail-length away. The rabbit veered 
downslope, easily avoiding Gorse Fur, who was 
crouched beyond the rise, and darted down a hole. 

“You birdbrain!” Wind Runner turned on Moth 
Flight, her mew hot with rage. She seemed to be 
swallowing back a snarl. “If you weren’t going to 
catch it, you should have gotten out of my way so I 
could have driven it into Gorse Fur’s paws!” 

Moth Flight stared at her, stricken with horror. I’ve 
done it again! Panic flashed through her. Why do 1 
always get it wrong? “I’m so sorry!” 

Wind Runner seemed to be trying to stop herself 
from shaking as she glared at her daughter. “You were 
supposed to be helping,” she meowed slowly, her 
words clipped. 

“I know.” Moth Flight stared dejectedly at her 
paws. “I was just remembering a dream I had. It was 
so vivid, I sort of . . .” She searched for words, 


knowing that no matter what she said, her mother 
wouldn’t understand. “. . . I sort of got lost in it.” 

Gorse Fur galloped toward them. “Moth Flight.” 
There was more pity than anger in his mew. “You need 
to try to pay attention.” 

“How many times do I have to remind you?” As 
Wind Runner started another lecture, Moth Flight’s 
shoulders sank. “A hungry clan is a vulnerable clan. 
With empty bellies, we are prey to disease and attacks 
from rogues. What if a dog is loose on the moor? Our 
cats need the strength to outrun it.” 

Moth Flight lifted her head to meet her mother’s 
gaze. “I’m sorr—” She stopped, her breath catching in 
her throat. Wide, green wings were fluttering a tail- 
length away. 

The moth! 

There it was! Dancing over the grass, whipped one 
way then the other by the buffeting wind. Just like the 
one in my dream! Moth Flight’s heart soared. 
Suddenly she was swamped by the same longing to 
follow the beautiful moth that had filled her dream. Her 
paws itched to run after it. / have to catch up with it! 
With a purr of delight, she pelted after it. 


“Moth Flight!” 
She hardly heard her mother’s yowl. Wind rushed 
past her ears as she chased the moth across the grass. 





CHAPTER 4 
+ 


Moth Flight ran. She could hear Wind Runner and 
Gorse Fur calling, but her eyes were fixed on the 
moth’s great, green wings. She had to chase it. The 
moth wanted to show her something. She just knew it! 

The ground sloped steeply beneath her paws and 
she skidded, straming to keep her balance as she 
bounded down the hillside where the moor dropped into 
the valley. 

The sun, burning orange on the peaks of 
Highstones, made a halo around the moth, illuminating 
its great wings as it fluttered above the ground. 

The coarse grass of the moor turned soft as it 
dipped toward the valley, growing lush as the land 
flattened. Suddenly Moth Flight felt hard stone beneath 
her paws; the stench of the Thunderpath touched her 
nose. She paused, wary. 

The moth paused too, wheeling in the air and flying 
back toward her. It swooped above her head. 

Its beckoning to me! She knew the moth wanted 
her to keep following. 


“Tm coming!” 

The moth began to head away, moving toward 
fields beyond the Thunderpath. A breeze lifted it, 
swirling it sideways. 

Moth Flight leaped, paws outstretched, hoping to 
touch its soft wings. 

As she arched her back, straining to reach it, hard 
muscle slammed into her flank and knocked her rolling 
across the black stone of the Thunderpath. 

Surprise flared through her as she tumbled onto the 
grass verge on the far side. A roar exploded in her 
ears and wind tore at her fur. The foul stench of a 
monster swept over her, burning her throat, as grit 
pelted her flank. Wailing in terror, she screwed up her 
eyes and flinched from the stinging shower. 

“Moth Flight!” Gorse Fur’s voice sounded in her 
ear as the monster’s roar faded. 

She scrambled to her paws, blinking open her eyes. 

Gorse Fur stood beside her, his gaze almost black 
with shock. “You could have been killed!” 

She stared at him, numb. 

“You were standing in the middle of the 
Thunderpath!” Fury flared in Gorse Fur’s eyes. 


“Didn’t you hear the monster coming?” 

Moth Flight blinked at him, struggling to make 
sense of what had happened. “I was chasing the 
moth.” Hadn’t he seen it? She turned her head, 
scanning the hedge beside them. Where had it gone? 

Paws thudded over the Thunderpath. Moth Flight 
glimpsed her mother and Dust Muzzle racing toward 
them. 

“You rabbit-brained fool!” Wind Runner scrambled 
to a halt, bristling with rage. 

Dust Muzzle’s eyes glittered with horror. “If Gorse 
Fur hadn’t knocked you out of the way—” 

Wind Runner didn’t let him finish. “You could have 
both been killed!” 

Moth Flight saw fear in her mother’s gaze. She 
stiffened, cold dread rippling beneath her pelt. She had 
never seen her mother frightened before. 

“Are you hurt?” Dust Muzzle leaned forward, 
sniffing at Moth Flight’s pelt. The young tom’s gaze 
flicked toward Gorse Fur. “Are you both okay?” 

Gorse Fur blinked reassuringly. “We’re fine,” he 
promised. 

Wind Runner’s gaze burned into Moth Flight's. 


“No thanks to you!” 

Moth Flight backed away, suddenly scared. “I’m 
sorry.” She began to tremble. Gorse Fur and I both 
could have died! And it was my fault! 

The ground swayed beneath her paws. 

“You’ve always been irresponsible!” Wind 
Runner’s sharp words cut through her jumbled 
thoughts. “Losing Slate’s kits, getting lost collecting 
plants when you should have been hunting. We’re used 
to that. But you’ve never been this reckless! You’re 
not just a danger to yourself! You’re a danger to your 
Clan!” 

“Pm s-sorry.” Guilt welled inside Moth Flight, 
rising in her throat until she could hardly speak. 

“You’ve worn that word out today!” Every hair on 
Wind Runner’s pelt stood on end. “Sorry doesn’t bring 
back cats from the dead! WindClan would be better 
off without you!” 

Moth Flight hardly heard Dust Muzzle’s gasp or 
the gentle words of Gorse Fur as he tried to calm his 
mate. 

“No one was actually hurt,” he soothed. 

Moth Flight’s heart seemed to crack in her chest. 


Wind Runner is right. She was a danger to her Clan. 
What if Silver Stripe had been killed by a badger? Or 
Black Ear carried away by a buzzard? What if Gorse 
Fur had been killed by a monster as he tried to 
save me? 

As she backed away, her vision blurred. What 
have I done? She stared at her family, her chest too 
tight to breathe. 

“Where are you going?” Wind Runner yowled. 

“I need time to think,’ Moth Flight struggled to 
speak. “I need to be by myself for a while.” 
Unsteadily, she turned and headed for the hedge 
beyond the grass verge. 

Gorse Fur’s mew rang behind her. “You can’t just 
go off by yourself!” 

“Don't try and stop me!” she wailed. She slid 
beneath the hedge and began running. Shallow ridges 
of soil stretched before her and she raced over them, 
her paws slipping into the furrows and tripping over 
ridges. But she had to keep going. She had to get 
away! 

“Come back!” Wind Runner’s call echoed from 
beyond the hedge. “Sulking won’t help!” 


I’m not sulking! Moth Flight’s thoughts whirled as 
grief stormed inside her. But you're right! I am a 
danger to my Clan. 

I dont deserve to be with you. 





CHAPTER 5 
+ 


Moth Flight raced blindly across the field until 
golden branches loomed ahead, forcing her to a stop. 
She pulled up, heart lurching, her paws sinking into the 
soft soil. A beech hedge blocked her way. She glanced 
back across the ridged earth. No one had followed. 
Good! Her throat tightened. Are they relieved I’ve 
left? 

She gazed bleakly around. Beyond the hedge top, 
rooks whirled like dark leaves around the canopy of a 
large elm. They shouted at one another while a 
monster howled along the Thunderpath behind and, 
somewhere far away, dogs barked. 

Moth Flight shivered. A cold wind was tugging at 
her pelt. Down here, in the valley, shadow swathed the 
fields. The sun was hidden by Highstones now, but its 
rays still bathed the moortop in soft orange light. 
Slinking beneath the beech hedge, she pressed her 
belly to the earth and tucked her nose between her 
paws. 

What now? 


She was of no use to her Clan. And the moth had 
disappeared. As she’d chased it, she had been so sure 
she’d been heading the right way. Now she didn’t 
know where to go. The beech leaves rattled around 
her and she drew her paws in tighter. 

Her belly growled. She hadn’t eaten all day and 
even her misery couldn’t hide her hunger. 

I should hunt. 

She lifted her head and gazed halfheartedly 
through the shadows, hoping to spot a mouse scuttling 
among the roots. 

Only the leaves stirred. She peered from under the 
branches at the field. Birds swooped across the 
furrows, trawling for insects, before swooping out of 
reach. Moth Flight’s tail drooped. Wind Runner would 
catch one easily. She’d crouch in a dip, invisible against 
the earth, and hook one as it dived. But not me. Even 
if she was any good at hunting, Moth Flight knew her 
white pelt would give her away. 

Wind ruffled the surface of a puddle a few tail- 
lengths away. At least she could drink. Moth Flight slid 
out from beneath the hedge and padded toward it. As 
she neared, movement caught her eye. A dark brown 


toad was slithering along the edge. 

Could I eat a toad? Moth Flight frowned. She 
knew RiverClan cats ate frogs. And ShadowClan 
boasted of eating lizards. At least it’ll be easy to 
catch. The toad hopped clumsily and landed with a 
thump on the side of a furrow, its hind legs flapping as 
it tried to find its feet. Moth Flight dropped into a 
hunting crouch and waited for it to jump again. 

As it leaped, she lunged toward it, flinging out her 
forepaws and knocking it to the ground. It fell onto its 
back, showing a pale belly. Moth Flight screwed up her 
face and ducked to give a killing bite. 

Its flesh was squidgy between her teeth and she 
shuddered as she crunched through its spine. As it 
twitched and fell limp, Moth Flight felt relieved. Its 
blood wasn’t as sweet as rabbit blood, but at least it 
didn’t taste like pond water. 

Grasping her catch between her jaws, she carried 
it back to the hedge and squeezed into the shadows 
once more. 

Hungry and cold, she began to eat, queasy as she 
tore at the toad’s flabby flank. Perhaps the legs are 
meatier. She gnawed at one, trying to ignore the 


muddy taste of the creature’s flesh. Once she’d 
swallowed a few mouthfuls, her aching hunger eased, 
and she pushed the toad away. She imagined Wind 
Runner telling her not to be wasteful and that hungry 
bellies couldn’t be choosy. But Wind Runner wasn’t 
here. I can do what I like. 

Her heart quickened. Am I really going to stay 
out here all night? She’d never slept away from her 
Clan. She was used to Dust Muzzle’s pelt pressed 
against hers and the sound of her Clanmates snoring. 
She suddenly realized how safe she’d always felt in 
camp. 

Nervously, she peered from the hedge. The 
afternoon shadow had turned to night. The birds had 
stopped swooping. The rooks had stilled and grown 
quiet. Moth Flight blinked up at the sky, where stars 
were beginning to show. She glanced toward the 
puddle, hoping to see their reflection sparkle like 
familiar friends in the muddy water. 

Something moved in the field. 

Moth Flight tensed. A shape was creeping along 
the hedge toward her. Its dark shadow rippled across 
the leaves, making them rustle as it passed. 


A fox? The creature was skulking low to the 
ground. She opened her mouth to taste the air, but toad 
stench still soured her tongue. Belly tightening, she 
backed deeper into the hedge, hoping it wouldn’t see 
her. The creature had stopped and was sniffing the 
furrows. It paused and lifted its head. Moth Flight 
froze as its eyes flashed toward her. As it darted 
forward, she unsheathed her claws. Bracing her hind 
paws against a root, she prepared to defend herself. 

Blood roared in her ears as the creature neared. 
She could hear its paws thrumming the earth. Its gaze 
darted this way and that, as though it was scanning the 
hedgerow. 

It knows I’m here. Panic flared through her. 
Should I run away? 

“Moth Flight!” 

Moth Flight blinked in surprise. The creature was 
calling her name. And she recognized the mew! 

“Spotted Fur?” Relief swamped her as she made 
out the familiar shape of his shoulders. His dappled, 
golden pelt was pale in the moonlight. 

“Pve found you!” He pulled up beside the hedge. 
“What are you doing in there? Are you okay? You 


smell scared.” 

“Pm fine.” Moth Flight ducked out, limp with 
gratitude. Heather scent pulsed from Spotted Fur’s 
pelt, smelling of their home. “I thought you were a 
fox!” 

“What if I had been?” His eyes darkened with 
worry. 

“You weren’t.” Moth Flight flicked her ear. She 
didn’t want to think about the answer. 

“Dust Muzzle said you’d run off.” 

“T did.” 

“Well, you can’t stay out here all night just because 
you had an argument with Wind Runner. Let’s get you 
home.” 

Moth Flight stared at him. Hadn’t Dust Muzzle 
explained? “I’m not going home. I’m a danger to my 
Clan.” 

Spotted Fur swished his tail. “Don’t be silly. You’re 
not a danger to any cat. Wind Runner’s upset, but it’ll 
all be forgotten by the morning.” 

Moth Flight dug her claws into the earth. “She said 
the Clan would be better off without me, and she’s 
right. I’m not coming home.” 


“You can’t stay here!” Spotted Fur stared at her. 
“It’s not safe. Besides, you must be starving.” 

Moth Flight lifted her muzzle indignantly. “I caught 
a toad.” She reached under the hedge and hauled it 
out. 

Spotted Fur backed away, screwing up his muzzle. 
“You can’t eat that!” 

“I already have,” Moth Flight told him proudly. 
“You see? I ate some of its leg. You think I can’t look 
after myself, but I can!” 

Spotted Fur’s gaze softened. “Oh, Moth Flight. Of 
course you can.” He leaned forward to brush his 
cheek against hers but she flinched away. 

“Don't treat me like a kit!” She’d heard him talk to 
Black Ear in the same tone earlier. “I’m not going 
home!” 

Spotted Fur sat down. “Well, in that case, we’d 
better make a nest for the night.” 

“You're staying with me?” Moth Flight shifted her 
paws uneasily. She was desperate to prove she could 
look after herself. But it would feel safer to have 
Spotted Fur sleeping beside her. 

“Pm not leaving you out here by yourself,” he 


answered. “Besides, you'll have changed your mind by 
the morning. After a good night’s rest, you’ll be ready 
to go home.” 

No I wont. But Moth Flight bit back her answer, 
frightened that he might be right. 

Spotted Fur nodded toward the dead beech leaves 
lying in drifts along the hedge. “Why don’t we push 
some of those underneath the hedge to make a nest?” 

“Let’s dig a hollow first,’ Moth Flight suggested. 
“Tt’ll be warmer.” 

“Good idea.” Spotted Fur sniffed beneath the 
branches, then began scraping among the roots with 
his forepaws. 

Moth Flight pushed in beside him and helped. 
Before long they’d dug a shallow dip between two 
gnarled roots. Spotted Fur fetched pawfuls of leaves 
and Moth Flight patted them into a soft, if slightly 
crunchy, lining for their nest. 

“Pm hungry,” Spotted Fur mewed when they’d 
finished. He sat down in the nest and sniffed the air. 
“Have you seen any mice?” 

“If I had, do you think I’d be eating a toad?” Moth 
Flight sat beside him, the leaves crunching beneath her. 


His pelt felt warm against hers. 

Spotted Fur purred. “I could go and hunt.” 

“There might be dogs around. I heard them barking 
earlier,’ Moth Flight warned. She didn’t want to be left 
alone in the dark. Suddenly, she wondered how she 
could ever have thought of sleeping out here by 
herself. 

Spotted Fur gazed at her fondly. “Okay.” He 
dipped his head. “TIl eat your stinky toad.” 

“The legs aren’t that bad.” Moth Flight reached 
out and, hooking the toad with a claw, dragged it into 
the nest. She dropped it at Spotted Fur’s paws. 

“You haven’t eaten much of it,” he commented. 

“T wasn’t hungry.” 

“Have some with me now,” he urged. “It’ll be a 
cold night and a full belly will keep you warm.” 

The toad didn’t taste so bad when she was sharing 
it, but it still wasn’t as good as rabbit. 

Moth Flight purred as Spotted Fur screwed up his 
face. “RiverClan cats eat frogs all the time,” she 
reminded him. 

“RiverClan cats swim too,” Spotted Fur answered, 
chewing. “That doesn’t mean we should go throw 


ourselves into the river.” 

They ate as much as they could and kicked the 
remains out of the nest. “You never know—” Spotted 
Fur stopped to stifle a yawn. “A bird might come 
pecking around it in the morning. Then I can catch a 
decent meal.” 

“It wasn’t that bad,” Moth Flight lied defensively. 
Why did he have to act as though he was better than 
she was? Crossly, she curled down into the nest, 
snuggling as deep into the leaves as she could, and 
closed her eyes. Spotted Fur’s rough tongue lapped her 
ear. 

“I know you've had a hard day,” he murmured. 
“But we were all really worried about you. The others 
will be so relieved to see you tomorrow.” 

“Even Wind Runner?” Moth Flight kept her eyes 
closed. 

Spotted Fur touched his muzzle to her head. 
“Especially Wind Runner.” 

Her heart swelled and she lifted her head, blinking 
at him gratefully. He was such a kind friend. She 
should go home in the morning. She’d been a rabbit- 
brain to stay out here by herself. She felt him settle 


beside her, and relished the warmth of his pelt against 
hers. How could I live without my Clan? I just need 
to try harder. She ignored the unease tugging in her 
belly. /f I just practice my hunting and concentrate 
more on what I’m doing . . . Letting tiredness sweep 
over her, she slid into sleep. 





CHAPTER 6 
+ 


Moth Flight opened her eyes, stiffening as darkness 
pressed around her. It wasn’t the glittering darkness of 
a starlit night, but a stifling gloom. The air smelled 
dank, sharp with the mineral taste of stone. She 
blinked, surprised to find herself standing, cold rock 
beneath her paws. 

Where am I? Wheres Spotted Fur? 

She glanced around, looking for her Clanmate and 
wondering what had happened to the beech hedge. All 
she could make out in the shadows was stone. Above 
her, a small opening let starlight filter in. It pooled on a 
large rock jutting from the floor. 

I’m in a cave! With a start, she realized that she 
was dreaming. But it feels so real! The cold stone 
made her paws ache. The damp air chilled her pelt. 
Moth Flight shivered as she gazed at the rock, looming 
at the center of the cave. Padding forward, she sniffed 
it. Her whiskers tingled and her heart quickened. What 
is this place? Something about the stone seemed to 
carry the promise of a coming storm, thickening the air 


around it so that Moth Flight expected, any moment, to 
feel the cave shudder with thunder. 

Someone 8 coming! 

Her ears twitched as she heard the sound of paw 
steps echoing toward her. She turned and saw a dark 
shadow on the side of the cave. A tunnel! Two cats 
emerged, their fur pale as weak starlight lit their pelts. 

Moth Flight could make out the shapes of a gray 
tom and a long-furred she-cat. J know her! Her heart 
leaped as she recognized the cat she’d watched 
struggle back from the brink of death. She darted 
forward, excited to see the she-cat healthy and strong. 
Her thick fur looked well-groomed; her eyes shone 
brightly in the half-light. She looks younger! Moth 
Flight tipped her head, confused. 

Why was she dreaming about the same cat? And 
why did it feel vivid enough to be real? 

“Who are you?” Her mew echoed across the 
cave, but the cats didn’t seem to hear. Their gaze was 
fixed on the great rock as they padded toward it, the 
gray she-cat slowing as she approached. 

“Please talk to me!” Moth Flight hurried to their 
side, reaching out a paw to touch the gray she-cat. 


But, as in her last dream, her paw passed through the 
other cat as though she were mist. 

The tom’s mouth moved. The gray she-cat 
dragged her gaze from the rock and nodded. 

Why cant I hear them? Moth Flight burned with 
frustration. 

Unease seemed to glitter in the she-cat’s gaze as 
she approached the rock and lay down before it. She 
glanced up and Moth Flight followed her gaze. 

Through the hole in the roof, she could see the 
moon rising. Delight fizzed through Moth Flight’s pelt 
as its rays turned the stone silver. Its so beautiful 
here! 

The she-cat closed her eyes. 

Moth Flight leaned closer. What now? 

Suddenly, the cave exploded with light—a flash 
more blinding than lightning. Moth Flight’s eyes— 
stretched wide for the darkness—burned. She 
screwed them shut, shaking. Then, slowly she opened 
them to narrow slits. 

Through the glare, she saw the gray she-cat reach 
forward and touch her nose to the glittering stone. 

Whats happening? Moth Flight leaned forward, 


desperate to understand. Curiosity seared through her 
pelt. The gray she-cat grew as still as the rock itself. A 
tai-length away, the tom had curled on the floor, his 
eyes closed. 

Moth Flight padded around the gray-she cat, her 
belly fluttering with excitement. Then pelts moved 
around her. Moth Flight gasped. The cave was 
suddenly filled with cats. 

Where had they come from? 

She blinked in shock as she realized their pelts 
were translucent and shimmered as though water 
rippled through their fur, reflecting starlight. 

Spirit-cats! Moth Flight had heard tales of ghostly 
ancestors appearing at Fourtrees after the great battle. 
They had shared tongues with the Clan leaders and 
brought peace to the warring cats. They had appeared 
in the moons since, but she had never seen them 
herself. 

She stiffened. If they were ancestors, Gray Wing 
might be among them. Eagerly, she scanned the starry 
pelts. There was no sign of him. 

A great tom padded to the gray she-cat’s side. 
Leaning down, he touched his nose to the top of her 


head. 

The she-cat flinched as though pain flared through 
her, but she did not move from her spot, or open her 
eyes. The tom’s mouth moved as he spoke but Moth 
Flight couldn’t make out the words. Then he backed 
away and the gray-she cat grew limp once more. 

With a rush of hope, Moth Flight wondered if the 
spirit-cat could see her. The dead could speak to the 
living, after all. Why shouldn’t they be able to see a 
dream-cat? She lifted her chin challengingly. “What’s 
happening? Why are you here?” Her mew hung in the 
air. No echo rang from the walls. No cat looked at her. 

Disappointed, she weaved among them, longing to 
feel their pelts brush hers. But it was like she wasn’t 
there! 

A small brown tom padded forward, his sparkling 
pelt camouflaged against the shimmering of the stone 
as he stopped beside the gray she-cat. He touched his 
nose to the she-cat’s head, and once more she flinched 
violently. 

Moth Flight gazed sadly at the ranks of starry cats. 
“I wish you could hear me.” Suddenly she felt very 
alone and small. For a moment she wanted to escape 


this dream and return to her warm nest beside Spotted 
Fur. Then a familiar color flashed at the edge of the 
cave. The pale green of the moth’s wings fluttered 
beyond the starry cats. It was hovering at the tunnel 
entrance, where the gray tom and she-cat had entered. 

Moth Flight’s breath caught in her throat. She 
knew she must follow it. Passing through the circle of 
starry cats, she hurried into the darkness beyond. 

The smell of damp leaves filled her nose. As her 
eyes blinked open, she heard Spotted Fur’s gentle 
snoring. Disappointment dropped like a stone in her 
chest. I'm awake! She was back in her nest, lying 
beside Spotted Fur. The beech leaves rattled overhead. 
An owl called from close by. Moth Flight lifted her 
nose from her paws and peeked out across the moonlit 
field. Frost sparkled on the furrows. Where is my moth 
now? With a flash of understanding, Moth Flight knew. 
It’s waiting to lead me! But where? And when? Why 
did it always seem to disappear just as she was starting 
to follow it? 

Determination hardened in Moth Flight’s belly. This 
isn t supposed to be easy. It doesnt want me to give 
up! She stood up and slid from beneath the hedge, 


fluffing her fur against the cold. Dawn was lighting the 
sky beyond the looming moortop. Spotted Fur would be 
awake soon. There was no time to waste. 

How could she even think of returning to her Clan 
now? Perhaps she was being foolish; perhaps she was 
wrong; perhaps the moth was nothing but a dream. But 
if Moth Flight went home now, she’d never stop 
wondering whether something important was waiting 
for her far from home. 

I cant leave Spotted Fur without telling him. If 
she was going to send him home without her, he had a 
right to know why. She dropped onto her belly and 
leaned into the nest, the warm smell of him filling her 
nose. Her heart ached. She was going to miss her 
Clan. But she had to follow her heart. Stretching 
forward a paw, she prodded Spotted Fur. 

Grunting, he lifted his head. 

“I have to go,” Moth Flight whispered. 

Struggling to open his eyes, he peered at her 
blearily. 

“Pm sorry,” she apologized. “I know it seems 
crazy but I know that there’s something I need to do. I 
can’t go home until I’ve done it. And if I don’t leave 


now, I may never have the chance again.” 

Spotted Fur licked his lips, as though he was still 
lost in a dream. “No more toads,” he mumbled, his 
eyes slipping shut. With a sigh, he rested his nose back 
onto his paws. 

Moth Flight gazed at him, wondering if he’d even 
heard her. She leaned forward and touched her nose to 
his cheek. “I’m sorry, Spotted Fur,” she repeated. Guilt 
pricked her heart as she wriggled backward, out of the 
hedge. “Good-bye. I hope we’ ll see each other again.” 
She straightened, shaking leaf dust from her pelt. 
Glancing across the field, she wondered which way to 
head. 

The moor lay behind her, Highstones ahead. Lifting 
her tail she padded forward, following the hedgerow 
until it turned, and then squeezed under it onto a dirt 
track beyond. A ditch ran beside the track, water 
swirling along the bottom. Moth Flight jumped into it, 
flinching as the cold water swallowed her paws. Then 
she waded downstream, pleased that the narrow brook 
would wash away all scent of her. Spotted Fur 
wouldn’t be able to follow her trail. Whatever she was 
supposed to do, she knew that she must do it alone. 





CHAPTER 7 
+ 


When she felt sure that she’d disguised her trail 
completely, Moth Flight hopped out of the ditch, 
shaking water from her paws, and followed the dirt 
track. It turned suddenly, rising toward a Twoleg nest. 
Moth Flight halted. She didn’t want to stray close to 
Twolegs. They were unpredictable and kept dogs. 
Instead, she nosed her way through a patch of bracken 
and found herself in an overgrown meadow. 

Pushing through the long grass, she paused to sniff 
the stems, excited by how many unfamiliar plants grew 
here. There were flowers budding, and soft grass, 
rising taller than her tail. It was so different from the 
moor, where the weather scoured the landscape so 
that only the toughest plants could survive and the few 
that did seemed to cling to the earth, keeping low for 
fear of being torn away by the relentless wind. 

Here, plants grew fearlessly, as if they had no 
memory of cruel weather. Moth Flight’s nose filled 
with their pungent scent until she felt dizzy. She 
followed the valley, Highstones rising in the distance on 


one side, the moor looming on the other. Until she 
knew where she was meant to be going, she wanted 
both to be close. 

What if her journey lay beyond the valley? Past 
Highstones? Out of sight of the moor? Her belly 
tightened at the thought. It felt strange enough to be so 
far from her Clan, and heading away from Spotted Fur. 
As the sun rose and began to cross the wide, blue 
newleaf sky, she found herself slowing, unsure of her 
next paw steps. Perhaps this was where the moth had 
wanted to lead her; perhaps it had only wanted to 
show her the rich foliage growing so close to her 
home. 

Her belly growled and she realized how hungry she 
was. And thirsty. She licked her lips, tasting the air for 
water. If she could find another dirt track, there might 
be a ditch beside it. If she were lucky it would provide 
water and perhaps a vole. Or a toad, at least. She 
shuddered. 

Pushing through a hedge, she found herself at the 
edge of a wide field. The grass here was short. Sheep 
grazed, eyes blank, clumped in small groups like clouds 
dotting a green sky. A few tail-lengths away, where the 


hedge gave way to fence, water pooled in muddy dips 
where monsters had left paw marks. 

Ears pricked warily, Moth Flight padded toward the 
puddles and crouched beside the nearest one. She 
lapped the brown water, trying to ignore the bitter 
taste. She heard hooves pattering across the grass and 
looked up to see sheep moving toward her. Unsure of 
them, she backed away. They ambled aimlessly, their 
attention fixed on the grass, buffeting each other 
clumsily. Such dumb animals might trample her without 
even noticing. She headed around them, keeping a safe 
distance, her nose twitching at the warm, sour smell of 
them. 

Suddenly movement flashed at the corner of her 
eye. A small brown shape was darting through the 
grass. 

Mouse! 

Heart leaping, Moth Flight dropped into a crouch. 

The mouse was scampering toward the hedge, its 
nose twitching nervously. 

Prey will smell you before they see you, so keep 
the wind behind you. Moth Flight remembered one of 
Gorse Fur’s lessons and lifted her tail, letting the 


breeze stream through it. She was in luck; the mouse 
was upwind. It would never smell her. All she needed 
to do was creep up on it without it hearing her. 

Treading delicately, she pulled herself over the 
grass. She made sure that her tail didn’t brush against 
the grass, grateful for Gorse Fur’s training and 
surprised that she suddenly remembered so much of tt. 
Why couldn’t she remember it when she was trying to 
impress Wind Runner? 

The mouse was moving fast, its gaze fixed on the 
hedge. If she wanted to catch it before it found the 
safety of the shadows, she would have to run. Holding 
her breath, Moth Flight quickened her pace, trying to 
keep her paw steps as light as feathers falling. With 
any luck, the pattering of the sheep’s hooves a few 
tai-lengths away would disguise any noise she made. 

The mouse kept running, but she was almost close 
enough to pounce. Her chest tightened with 
excitement. Keep your eyes on it, she reminded 
herself as she stiffened for her leap. She had to land 
on it the first time or she’d lose it. 

Ready... 

Green wings fluttered beside her. Moth Flight 


scrambled to a halt. 

The moth! 

Forgetting the mouse in a moment, she turned to 
stare at the moth. It was right in front of her, its great 
wings brilliant in the sunshine. 

Reaching up with her forepaw, she tried to touch it. 
But it whisked away and began heading across the 
field. 

Delight surged through Moth Flight's pelt. She 
chased the moth, a purr rumbling in her throat. It’s 
come to show me the way! 

It flitted past a group of sheep. Moth Flight veered 
around them. The moth lifted higher into the air. No! 
Dont leave me! Fear flashed through her. What if it 
climbed so high she lost sight of it? She ran faster, 
desperation pricking in her paws. 

I’m not losing you this time! 

A bark cut through the air. Moth Flight’s pelt 
bushed. 

Dog! 

Dragging her gaze from the moth, she glanced 
around. 

The bark sounded again, louder this time. Then the 


dog burst into excited yapping. Fear shrilled through 
Moth Flight. 

Its seen me! 

She twisted, scanning the field desperately, her 
senses confused by the earthy meadow scents. 

The sheep began to run, panic showing in their 
eyes. They closed into a flock, and headed for Moth 
Flight. 

Still she couldn't see the dog. 

But its jubilant barking was getting closer every 
moment. 

Suddenly the flock opened. The terrified sheep 
scattered as a black-and-white shape surged among 
them. They shied away, bleating with fear, as it raced 
toward Moth Flight. 

She froze for a moment, horror gripping her, then 
spun and pelted for the edge of the field. 

The hedge there was thick. If she could squeeze 
through it, the dog might not be able to follow. 

Blood roared in her ears as she pushed hard 
against the earth. 

But the dog’s paws were thrumming closer. 

I cant outrun it! Unaware of everything but 


terror, Moth Flight ran onward. Teeth nipped her tail 
tip. Too scared to look back, she felt her fur spike. The 
dog’s hot breath billowed over her haunches. Its 
yelping dropped to a vicious growl. 

If it got a grip on her hind legs, she’d be lost. 

I must face it. The only way to escape was to 
wound it first. 

Her paws slithering on the grass, she turned and 
reared. With a yowl, she lashed out with her forepaws. 

Yellow fur flashed between her and the dog. 

Moth Flight froze in surprise, drawing back her 
paws as a cat pelted past. 

Stumbling, her heart in her throat, she watched as 
the dog swerved and began to chase the yellow tom 
across the field. 

Where did he come from? 

Moth Flight stood and watched, numb with shock. 

“Quick!” A mew sounded behind her. She snapped 
her gaze around, amazed to see two cats pulling up on 
either side of her. 

A plump black-and-white she-cat stared at her 
urgently. “We’ve got to get out of here.” 

A small tom with graying whiskers around his 


brown muzzle nudged her toward the hedge. “Now!” 

Moth Flight stared across the grass. The yellow 
tom was zigzagging, the dog at his heels. “But what 
about him?” 

“Who, Micah?” The brown tom swapped amused 
glances with the black-and-white she-cat. 

Moth Flight stiffened as Micah veered suddenly 
and plunged between the legs of the startled sheep. 
Bleating with surprise, they scattered as the dog raced 
after the tom, knocking them aside if they weren’t 
quick enough to get out of the way. 

The she-cat purred beside her. “Micah doesn’t 
need any help.” 

“Come on.” The tom nudged her again. “We can 
show you somewhere safe.” 

The black-and-white she-cat was already hurrying 
toward the hedge, her plump belly swinging beneath 
her. 

Heart swelling with gratitude, Moth Flight followed 
after her. Behind them the dog’s bark grew shrill with 
fury. The brown tom fell into step beside her, slowing 
to let her push through the hedge first. As the stems 
scraped her flanks, relief swamped her. She just hoped 


that these cats were right and the yellow tom who had 
saved her didn’t need any help. 





CHAPTER 8 
+ 


“Follow me!” The plump she-cat was climbing a 
steep slope, scrambling up the wooden slats that 
crisscrossed it. 

Moth Flight hurried toward her, crossing the straw- 
covered floor, nervous at finding herself inside a huge 
Twoleg den. It towered around her, the roof high above 
her head. The brown tom trotted after them, not even 
glancing at the large black-and-white creatures that 
shifted and huffed at one end of the den. 

“Are they dangerous?” Moth Flight whispered, 
eyeing them warily. 

“Cows? Dangerous?” The tom shrugged. “They’re 
clumsy, but not mean. Stay away from their hooves 
and you’ll be okay.” 

The she-cat had already made it to the top of the 
slope and peered down from a broad ledge where big 
lumps of dried grass were stacked. 

Moth Flight paused at the bottom of the slatted 
slope, paws twitching with unease. “What is this 
place? Are there Twolegs here?” 


The tom nudged her onto the first rung. “This is the 
barn. The Twolegs store their hay in the loft and keep 
their cows below. But they’re used to us being here 
and they don’t bother us.” 

Are these cats kittypets? Moth Flight clung onto 
the next slat and pulled herself up. One of her hind 
paws slipped and hit the tom on the muzzle. “Sorry!” 
She hauled herself up. “I’ve never seen a slope like 
this before.” 

The tom snorted and shook his fur out. “Ladders 
are only hard to climb the first time,” he assured her. 
“Just keep going.” 

Moth Flight scrambled over the top, onto the ledge 
where the she-cat waited. She sneezed, hay dust filling 
her nose. This must be the loft. 

As Moth Flight sniffled, the she-cat purred with 
amusement. “You’ll get used to that too.” 

Moth Flight wasn’t so sure. Her eyes stung. The 
air was thick with dust; she could see it clouding in the 
shafts of sunlight that sliced through every gap in the 
high wooden walls of the barn. The loft stretched into 
shadow where it reached to the back wall of the huge 
den. Stacks of hay crowded every side. 


The tom landed next to her. “You’re safe up here. 
Dogs can’t climb ladders. They’re all paws and no 
sense.” 

“What about Micah?” She could still hear the dog 
barking angrily in the distance. 

“Micah is the fastest and cleverest cat I know.” 
The plump she-cat sat down and began licking her 
belly fur. 

“No dog ever gets near him,” the tom assured her. 

The she-cat looked up from her washing. “What 
are you called, dear?” 

“Moth Flight.” She glanced around the stacks of 
hay, her nose twitching as she smelled prey in the 
shadows. Her belly growled. She was hungry. 

“Moth Flight?” The she-cat blinked at her. “Is 
that a kittypet name?” 

Moth Flight lifted her chin sharply. “I’m no 
kittypet!” She snorted indignantly. Then she hesitated, 
guilt pricking her pelt. Were these cats kittypets? The 
tom hadn’t answered her question. She didn’t want to 
offend them after they’d been so kind. She tipped her 
head apologetically. “Are you?” 

The tom lay down and stretched in a strip of 


sunshine. “We’re farm cats. We share our territory 
with Twolegs, but we look after ourselves.” He 
yawned. 

The black-and-white she-cat straightened. “My 
name’s Cow and that’s Mouse.” 

Moth Flight swallowed back a purr. Such odd 
names! 

“Where are you from, dear?” Cow pressed. 

Moth Flight’s purr caught in her throat as she 
remembered the WindClan camp. “I come from the 
moor. I live there with my Clan.” Homesickness swept 
her so fiercely, she swayed on her paws. 

Cow leaned forward to steady her with a soft 
shoulder. “You must be hungry, you poor thing. You’ ve 
strayed a long way from home.” She glanced at 
Mouse. “The moor’s that great hill looming in front of 
the sunrise, isn’t it?” 

Mouse nodded. “Is your Clan your family?” he 
asked Moth Flight. 

“Kind of.” Her heart ached as she remembered 
Dust Muzzle and Gorse Fur, and even harder as she 
pictured Wind Runner. J wish I could make her proud 
of me. 


Moth Flight heard paws pattering over the ground 
below. She turned in time to catch sight of yellow fur, 
then heard scrabbling on the ladder. Moments later 
Micah jumped into the loft. His striped pelt gleamed in 
a streak of sunlight and his green eyes flashed as he 
met Cow’s gaze. “That dog will be picking thorns out 
of its paws for days.” A purr rumbled in his throat. 

“Did you lead it through the bramble patch again?” 
Cow’s whiskers twitched with amusement. 

“Of course!” 

Moth Flight stared at him. “You sound like you do 
this a lot!” 

“There’s not a dog in the whole valley that can 
catch me.” Micah whisked his tail in the air. “And if 
they did, I’d give them such a clawing, they'd regret 
it.” 

Mouse rolled onto his back, drowsily. “It must be a 
new one. The old farm dogs know better than to chase 
you, Micah.” 

Moth Flight gazed in admiration at the yellow tom. 
He stared back at her, his eyes widening. 

She shifted her paws uneasily. He was staring at 
her as though she had green fur. “What's wrong?” 


Self-consciously, she smoothed a paw over her ears, 
wondering if one of them was bent inside out. 

“IPs you!” Micah’s pelt ruffled along his spine. His 
mew was thick with disbelief. “What are you doing 
here? This isn’t where you belong!” 

Cow blinked at him. “What are you talking about, 
Micah? She’s a stranger.” 

“But I know her!” Micah insisted. 

Mouse pushed himself to his paws. “You’ve been 
on this farm since you were a kit. How can you know 
her? She’s never been here before.” 

‘Tve seen her in my dreams!” Micah murmured, 
half breathless, his eyes wide. 

Cow whisked her tail over her paws. “Don’t be 
mouse-brained. She’s real!” 

Moth Flight hardly heard the she-cat. She was 
staring at Micah. “Do you have dreams too?” 

Mouse sniffed. “Every cat has dreams.” 

Micah glanced at him. “I’ve heard you talking 
about your dreams, Mouse. You do nothing but chase 
mice and rats.” 

“That’s not true,” Mouse sniffed. “Sometimes I 
dream that they’re chasing me!” 


“But my dreams feel like they’re real!” Micah 
insisted. 

“Mine too!” Moth Flight’s belly tightened with 
excitement. 

Cow weaved between them, tail high. “Poor Moth 
Flight is starving. Let’s eat first and talk later.” She 
nodded toward the shadows at the back of the loft. 
“Shall I catch a mouse for you? There are plenty!” 

Moth Flight shook her head. She had a long 
journey ahead. The moth still had something to show 
her, she was sure of it. And if her dreams could be 
trusted, she assumed it had something to do with the 
spirit-cats. She must prove that she was strong enough 
for the task. “Pl catch my own prey, thanks.” She 
glanced past Cow, snatching a look at Micah. J dont 
want him thinking that I cant hunt for myself, she 
thought, her pelt growing hot. 

Cow jerked her nose toward the shadows. “Help 
yourself.” 

Micah padded past her. “Let’s hunt together,’ he 
suggested. “That chase has made me hungry.” 

“We? ll all hunt.” Cow stood up. 

Moth Flight felt a jab of disappointment. She 


wanted a moment alone with Micah to ask about his 
dreams. Were they like hers? 

“Come on!” Cow marched toward the back of the 
loft. 

Micah leaped onto one of the stacks of hay and 
disappeared down the other side. 

Moth Flight wondered whether to follow him, but 
Cow was beckoning her into the shadows. 

“Here’s a great spot,’ Cow lowered her voice. 
“There are always plenty of mice who can’t resist a 
nibble on the straw, even up here.” 

She dropped into a crouch. Moth Flight sank down 
beside her and stared into the gloom. Dust filled her 
nose but, through it, she could taste the musky scent of 
prey. 

Her belly growled again. 

Cow stifled a purr. “Pll let you go first,” she 
whispered. 

“Thanks.” Moth Flight crept forward, her eyes 
adjusting to the gloom. Between two lumps of hay, 
movement flickered. Concentrating, Moth Flight 
remembered Gorse Fur’s advice, realizing as she did 
how many times he’d told her the same thing. Move 


slowly. Lift your tail. Put your pads down softly. 
Her father’s words ringing in her mind, she stalked 
forward, ears pricked. Excitement tingled in her belly. 
As she neared the hay lumps, she could make out the 
small, round haunches of a mouse. Holding her breath, 
she padded closer, then halted. Bunching the muscles 
in her hind legs, she prepared to pounce. For a 
moment, she was aware of absolute stillness and 
silence. Then she leaped. 

The mouse darted away, but Moth Flight was 
quick. She landed a whisker away from the hay lump 
and thrust her paw into it, moving faster than she’d 
ever moved in her life. Triumph flared through her as 
her claws sank into warm flesh. Quick as a flash, she 
hooked the mouse out and killed it with a single bite. 

Black-and-white fur pelted past her. Hay dust 
exploded around her as Cow thumped against one of 
the lumps, scrabbling under it for a moment before 
dragging out her own catch. 

Her eyes shone at Moth Flight as she killed the 
mouse she’d caught, then nodded approvingly at Moth 
Flight’s. “There’s no better place to live than a barn,” 
she purred loudly. 


Moth Flight met her gaze, grateful for this cat’s 
warmth. But she couldn’t agree. For a moment she 
imagined the wind on the high moor, sweeping through 
her fur as she chased rabbits with Dust Muzzle. One 
day I'll catch one. Happiness swelled in her chest as 
she imagined the impressed look on her brother’s face. 

“Come on.” Cow was padding back to the sunny 
opening of the loft, her mew muffled by her mouse. 

Moth Flight scooped up her own catch and 
followed. 

Mouse was already eating. Micah appeared a 
moment later, scrambling over the stack of hay and 
landing lightly beside them, a mouse dangling from his 
jaws. 

Moth Flight bit into her mouse, relishing the sweet 
flavor. She remembered, with a grimace, last night’s 
toad. How could RiverClan eat frogs every day? 
Perhaps they didn’t. Perhaps they saved them as a 
treat! She shuddered. 

Soft breath brushed her ear. “You said you dream 
as wel.” Micah’s mew broke into Moth Flight’s 
thoughts. He’d moved close, laying his mouse beside 
hers. 


“Yes,” she murmured. 

Cow was busy eating. Mouse had already finished 
and was starting a leisurely wash a tail-length away. 

Micah took a bite of his mouse. “What do you 
dream about?” he asked, his mouth full. “Me?” 

Moth Flight shook her head, trying not to purr. 
Micah clearly was not a modest cat. “I dream about a 
moth, and spirit-cats. They’re so vivid it’s like they’re 
real.” 

“Spirit-cats?” Micah stared at her. 

“Dead cats who visit the living.” Moth Flight 
wondered suddenly if farm cats were visited by their 
ancestors too? By the puzzled look on Micah’s face, 
she guessed not. She pressed on. “Do you dream the 
same? About moths and other cats?” Perhaps he 
didn’t know that the cats in his dreams were dead. She 
stared at him eagerly, hardly smelling the warm scent 
of prey wafting from her mouse. Hope sparked in her 
chest. Would Micah know what the moth meant and 
who the gray she-cat was? 

He shook his head, then swallowed. “I just dream 
about you.” A frown wrinkled his brow. “Just you. 
Playing with a young gray tabby tom—” 


“Dust Muzzle?” Moth Flight interrupted. 

“T don’t know his name. Sometimes you’re playing 
Catch the Tail, sometimes you’re out on a wide stretch 
of grass, hunting. Sometimes you’re with different cats 
—another gray tom, thinner and older than the Muzzle 
one.” 

“Gorse Fur!” Moth Flight’s pelt stood up along her 
spine. This cat had really seen her in his dreams! 

Micah shrugged. “If you say so. And there’s a 
wiry brown she-cat. She always looks cross.” 

“That’s Wind Runner, my mother,” Moth Flight told 
him. 

Micah took another mouthful of mouse. “I was 
taken from my mother when I was a kit. But if 
mothers are that stern, I’m happy I had Cow instead.” 
He glanced fondly toward the plump she-cat. Her eyes 
were glazed with contentment as she chewed the last 
of her catch. Micah’s whiskers twitched suddenly. 
“Why are you always taking plants back to your den?” 

“You saw that?” Moth Flight stared at him. 

“The other cats tease you, but every hunting trip, 
you bring back a plant instead of prey. It drives your 
mother crazy.” 


Moth Flight purred loudly. Micah made it sound 
funny. Then she paused. “Are you surprised to see me 
in real life?” 

He narrowed his eyes, as though thinking. “My 
dreams have always seemed real, so it seems natural 
that I’d meet you one day.” 

Moth Flight nodded eagerly. “I know just what you 
mean. My dreams aren’t about you, but they seem so 
real. They have to be real, right?” 

Micah eyed her, dubiously. “Green moths and 
spirit-cats?” 

Moth Flight gazed into his bright green eyes. “You 
dreamed of me when you’d never met me,” she told 
him. “So anything’s possible.” 

Micah’s ear twitched. “I guess.” He held her gaze 
and warmth flooded her pelt. 

She stared back, feeling suddenly as if she had 
always known him. Her fur tingled. /s this cat part of 
my journey? 





CHAPTER 9 
+ 


Moth Flight sneezed herself awake. Sniffling, she 
blinked open her eyes and saw the stacks of hay 
towering around her. She could see the flattened nests 
of straw where Cow, Mouse, and Micah had slept. 
Warmth still radiated from them. 

She sat up, wondering where they’d gone. It was 
light, but no direct sunshine sliced through the barn 
walls. Moth Flight tasted the air and, through the musty 
scent of hay dust, smelled rain. She stood and 
stretched, feeling energy surging through her muscles. 
She had slept soundly and comfortably, her belly full. 
As she pressed her chest to the floor, her tail quivered 
with satisfaction and she straightened and fluffed out 
her sleep-flattened fur. 

She suddenly realized that she hadn’t dreamed at 
all and wondered, stiffening, if the farm was where the 
moth had been leading her. She’d found Micah here, 
hadn’t she? He had dreamed of her. Perhaps the moth 
had just wanted them to meet. She frowned, pushing 
the idea away. That didn’t explain her dreams of the 


gray she-cat, or the glittering stone, and the spirit-cats 
who’d gathered around tt. 

She had to move on. There was still more to 
discover. 

She padded to the top of the ladder and peered 
down. Tentatively, she put her front paws on the top 
slat, then let them bump down to the next. Her heart 
lurched and she dug in her claws, gripping anxiously to 
the rough wood. Clumsily, she slithered down to the 
next slat, then the next, her hind paws trying 
desperately to catch up so that, in a moment, she was 
half scrambling, half falling, toward the ground. She 
leaped clear as soon as she saw the ground was close 
enough for her to land comfortably, relieved that the 
farm cats hadn’t been here to see her ungainly 
descent. 

The cows in the shadows behind her swished their 
hooves through the straw. Hurrying past them, she 
headed for the small crack in the wall where Mouse 
and Cow had led her into the barn the day before. 

Drizzle sprayed her face as she padded cautiously 
onto the stretch of stone beyond. She narrowed her 
eyes, relishing the light rain. It felt refreshing after the 


dusty air inside. A mild breeze swirled newleaf scents 
around her. Beyond the stone clearing, the trees were 
turning green, their branches glowing with fresh leaf 
buds, ready to unfurl. 

“You’re awake!” Cow’s call made her turn. The 
black-and-white cat was padding across the stone 
toward her. 

Mouse hurried at his friend’s heels. “Did you sleep 
well?” 

“Yes.” Moth Flight purred as they halted beside 
her. 

“You must be hungry,” Cow guessed. 

“Pl catch something on my way,” Moth Flight told 
her. 

“On your way?” Cow tipped her head, frowning. 

Moth Flight gazed back at her, searching for 
words. How could she explain that her dreams were 
leading her onward? “There’s just somewhere I need 
to go.” As Moth Flight finished, green wings fluttered 
at the far end of the stone clearing. 

My moth! Her heart leaped. It was swooping back 
and forth over a stone wall, as though beckoning her. 

She headed toward it, fluffing out her pelt against 


the drizzle. 

Cow swerved in front of her. “You can’t just 
leave!” 

“T have to.” Moth Flight tried to duck around her 
but Mouse blocked her way. 

The tom’s eyes glittered with worry. “You’re too 
young to be wandering around the valley alone!” 

‘Tl be okay.” Moth Flight tried to push past him, 
but Cow nudged her back. 

“Just stay for a few days, until you’ve eaten and 
rested properly.” There was concern in the she-cat’s 
yellow gaze. 

“I can’t.” Moth Flight glanced anxiously at the 
moth. It swooped faster, as though impatient. She 
couldn’t let it get away again! “I have to go now!” 

“You nearly got caught by a dog!” Mouse 
reminded her. 

“PI be more careful from now on,” Moth Flight 
promised. 

“You’re no more than skin and bone.” Cow blinked 
at her. “Stay and let us fatten you up a bit before you 
leave.” 

Moth Flight bit back frustration. I’m only skin and 


bone compared to you! 

The moth flitted suddenly away, heading for the 
trees beyond the wall. Moth Flight strained frantically, 
trying to see past Mouse and Cow, who were backing 
her toward the barn. /t’l] go without me! Anger 
surged in Moth Flight’s belly. She unsheathed her 
claws. Was she going to have to fight her way out of 
here? 

The moth fluttered toward the wall once more. /'m 
coming! Moth Flight promised silently. “Please let me 
go!” she begged. It might disappear at any moment, 
just like it had done before. 

“Let her go if she wants.” Micah’s deep mew 
echoed across the stone. He slid out from beneath a 
monster that was sleeping on the far side of the 
clearing and strode toward them, tail high. Moth Flight 
felt a surge of joy, tinged with admiration. Wasn’t 
Micah scared of the monster? It could wake up at any 
moment! 

Micah stopped beside his friends and shook the 
rain from his whiskers. “Can’t you see that she’s 
desperate to leave?” 

Moth Flight looked at him gratefully. “The moth 


from my dreams is trying to show me something.” 

Micah nodded solemnly, as though he understood. 

Cow looked startled. “What if something happens 
to her?” she fretted. ‘TIl never forgive myself.” 

“You can’t protect every cat, Cow,’ Micah 
reasoned. “She’s old enough to look after herself. She 
was traveling alone when we found her.” 

“She was nearly ripped to shreds by a dog,” Cow 
pointed out. 

Micah looked at Moth Flight. His bright green gaze 
burned into hers. “She has to go.” 

Moth Flight nodded, her gaze flicking toward the 
moth. “I have to go now!” 

Micah turned his gaze, softening, onto his friends. 
“T could go with her.” 

Mouse’s eyes widened. “Go with her?” 

Micah met the old tom’s gaze. “Then Cow won’t 
have to worry.” He turned to Moth Flight. “Can I 
come?” 

But this is my journey! She opened her mouth, 
expecting the words to come out, but they froze on her 
tongue. “Come with me?” was all she could manage. 

“Youve been in my dreams since I can 





remember,” Micah told her. “I need to find out why as 
much as you need to find out about the moth and the 
spirit-cats.” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws. “I think I’m 
supposed to do this alone.” 

“Then why did you appear in my dreams?” Micah 
stared at her pleadingly until she felt caught in his 
green gaze. “Please let me come.” 

She knew what he was feeling—the tug in his belly 
as his dreams called out to him. Now that he’d seen 
his dreams become reality, he couldn’t just go on with 
his life as though nothing had happened. Besides, she 
felt deep beneath her fur that they were connected in 
some way. Micah must be linked with the moth and the 
spirit-cats. Slowly she nodded. “Okay.” The moth lifted 
into the air and began to zigzag toward the trees. “But 
we have to leave now.” 

“You can’t go, Micah!” Cow’s eyes shimmered 
with sadness. “You’ve grown up here.” 

Micah touched his muzzle to hers. “And you’ve 
been like a mother to me. I will always remember you. 
And you’ll see me again.” 

Mouse’s eyes were dark. He dipped his graying 


muzzle. “I’ve heard many cats say that, but once a cat 
wanders, they rarely come back.” 

Moth Flight’s heart ached for the farm cats, but 
her paws itched to race after the moth. “I can’t wait,” 
she told Micah. “Cow and Mouse, thank you for 
everything, but I need to go. Micah, catch up with 
me.” She glanced at the moth. Its bright green wings 
were nearly camouflaged against the budding trees. 
Bounding away, she chased after it, crossing the 
stretch of stone and leaping onto the wall at the end. 

She dropped down into soft grass on the other side 
and began tracking the moth. She could just make it 
out as it flitted through the woods. She ducked into 
their shadow, relieved to be out of the rain. 

The moth dropped low to bob over ferns that were 
just starting to unfurl among the trunks. 

Paw steps sounded behind Moth Flight and she 
glanced over her shoulder. A striped yellow pelt 
showed between the trees. Micah was racing after 
her. 

He caught up to her, panting. “What’s the rush?” 

Moth Flight nodded toward the moth. It had 
stopped, resting for a moment against the bark of a 


beech. “Can you see it?” 

Micah followed her gaze and his eyes widened. 
“It’s beautiful! Is that the moth you dreamed about?” 

“Yes!” Joy sparked beneath Moth Flight’s pelt. She 
hadn’t been sure if the moth was real, or just a trick of 
her imagination. But Micah could see it too! 

Micah purred. “So you know what it’s like when 
your dreams suddenly show up while you’re awake?” 
His green eyes shone as they met hers. 

Before she could answer, the moth took off again, 
and began to weave once more among the trees. Moth 
Flight followed. 

“Where do these woods lead?” she asked as 
Micah fell in beside her. 

“They open onto a slope where a track leads past 
another Twoleg farm,” Micah told her. 

Moth Flight stiffened. “More dogs?” 

Micah’s pelt brushed hers as he trotted beside her. 
“Don't worry,” he purred. “I can handle dogs.” 





CHAPTER 10 
+ 


The moth avoided the Twoleg farm, much to Moth 
Flight's relief. As she and Micah emerged from the 
woods, it veered deeper into the valley. Overhead, the 
clouds were clearing and the drizzle eased. By sunhigh, 
the sky showed patches of blue, and by late afternoon, 
the sun shone in a cloudless, blue sky. 

A chilly breeze whisked around Moth Flight and, 
despite the sun burning her pelt, she began to feel cold. 
They hadn't eaten all day, but Moth Flight was 
frightened to stop and hunt in case they lost sight of the 
moth. Her belly rumbled and she fluffed out her fur to 
keep warm. As if sensing her discomfort, Micah 
padded closer and they shared each other’s warmth as 
they followed the moth. 

It led them over field after field and, following the 
setting sun, headed closer to Highstones. 

Weariness dragged at Moth Flight’s paws as they 
padded into the shadow of the great peaks. As the sun 
disappeared behind them, Moth Flight blinked, trying to 
adjust from bright sunshine to shade. The grass was 


becoming coarser beneath her paws. As they 
approached the foot of Highstones, it gave way to 
bare, rocky soil dotted with patches of heather. The 
land sloped steeply ahead of them and the moth lifted 
higher, swooping toward the sheer cliffs above. 

Micah halted and shook out his pelt. “We can’t 
keep following it without rest.” 

Moth Flight glanced back at him. “But we have to! 
What if we lose it?” 

Micah climbed onto a smooth, wide rock and sat 
down. His pale pelt looked colorless in the dusky 
gloom. “It’ll come back in the morning. It’s come back 
before.” 

Moth Flight’s hackles lifted. “We can’t stop now!” 

Micah looked toward the moth. It was fluttering 
against the cliff face. “How are we going to follow it 
up there? We don’t have wings.” 

“We’ll find a path.” Moth Flight scanned the sheer 
rock anxiously, looking for ledges and tracks they could 
follow. Her heart sank as she saw nothing but the 
steep face of Highstones. “There must be a way.” 

The moth’s wings were hardly visible against the 
shadowed stone. Moth Flight had to squint to make 


them out. “It’s stopped moving!” Her pelt rippled with 
surprise as she realized it had settled. Was it tired too? 

Micah jumped from his rock and followed her 
gaze. His breath billowed in the chilly evening air. “Ts 
that a hole in the cliff face?” he murmured. 

Moth Flight narrowed her eyes. Blackness 
surrounded the moth, as though it had settled on the lip 
of a gaping mouth. The opening was square, with 
sharp corners like the holes in Twoleg nests. 
Excitement fizzed beneath her fur. “It’s an entrance!” 

“An entrance to what?” Micah sounded wary. 

“I don’t know, but this must be what it wants to 
show me!” Moth Flight scrambled quickly up the slope, 
loose stones cracking beneath her paws. As she 
neared the entrance, the moth lifted once more into the 
air and began to spiral upward. “Wait!” Moth Flight 
called to it, her belly tightening. “Aren’t you going to 
show me what’s inside?” 

But the moth kept circling upward until Moth Flight 
saw it lift above Highstones, where the purple sky was 
streaked orange by the setting sun. Moth Flight 
strained to see the moth as it flitted higher until it was 
no more than a speck against the evening sky. Then it 


disappeared. She curled her claws against the stony 
ground, her heart aching. “Can you see it?” she called 
desperately to Micah. 

“It’s gone.” Stones rattled behind her as Micah 
climbed the slope. 

“It cant be!” Moth Flight stared at him as he 
reached her, bereft. 

He smoothed his tail across her spine. “It’s shown 
you what it wanted to show you,” he murmured gently. 
“You don’t need it anymore.” 

Slowly Moth Flight turned her gaze toward the 
gaping mouth in the cliff. “I think I have to go in 
there.” Dread hollowed her belly. She remembered the 
choking fear she felt in the moorland tunnels. “I don’t 
like the dark,” she whispered shakily. 

“PI be with you,” Micah promised. 

Moth Flight shook her head. “You dreamed of me,” 
she reminded him. “You didn’t dream of moths. I must 
go alone.” 

“Why?” Micah blinked at her. 

Moth Flight felt her paws trembling. “I’m not sure, 
I just know I must.” Certainty sat in her belly like 
hunger. 


Micah’s ear twitched. “Okay,” he meowed briskly. 
“But you’re not going in there until you’ve had 
something to eat.” 

Moth Flight dipped her head, grateful to have him 
with her. She was starving. Perhaps that was why her 
paws were trembling so much. As he turned, she 
followed him down the slope. 

“I'm sure I smelled mouse dung around here.” 
Micah began sniffing around the edge of the smooth, 
wide rock he’d stopped on. His ears pricked. “This is 
going to be easy.” As he spoke, a small shape darted 
from beneath the rock and raced across the stony 
ground. Mouse! Micah leaped, landing on it before it 
had run a tail-length. He snapped its neck and Moth 
Flight smelled the warm scent of blood. 

Her mouth watered and she began to scan the 
slope, looking for her own prey. 

“You eat this one.” Micah dropped the mouse at 
her paws. 

“I can catch my own,” Moth Flight protested. 

“I know,” Micah agreed. “But not now. Save your 
strength for whatever’s inside that cave.” 

As he padded quietly away, his nose twitching, 


Moth Flight glanced up at the gaping mouth in the cliff 
face. She swallowed. The moth wouldn’t have led her 
anywhere dangerous, surely? She pushed the thought 
away. I’m meant to do this, she told herself, no 
matter what. Crouching, she ate Micah’s mouse, her 
belly growling for more as she finished. She was 
pleased to see Micah heading back with two more 
mice swinging from his jaws. He glanced at the 
bloodstained rock where her meal had been and 
dropped his fresh catch on the space. “You were 
hungry,” he purred. He pushed one of the mice toward 
her and hooked the other toward himself. 

“Are you sure?” Moth Flight felt a prick of guilt. 
He’d walked just as far as she had today. He must be 
starving too. 

“I can catch more while you're exploring your 
cave.” He took a mouthful, his whiskers twitching with 
pleasure. 

“Yow ll wait for me?” she asked tentatively. The 
sky was dark now. Stars were showing in the 
blackness. The chilly wind had grown colder. Frost 
was beginning to sparkle on the rocks and the stone 
beneath her pads was so cold that it made her paws 


ache. 

“Of course I'll wait for you!” He looked up from 
his mouse sharply. “Why would I leave?” 

She shrugged. “It’s cold. I thought you might want 
to find shelter.” 

“We’ll find shelter together, once you get back.” 

Moth Flight felt her throat tighten with gratitude. 
“Thank you,” she croaked. 

She took longer to finish her second mouse. She 
wanted desperately to see inside the cave, but fear 
was tugging her back. Her heart pounded in her chest. 
It'll be so dark! Swallowing her final mouthful, she 
tried to steady her breathing. Micah was washing 
beside her, his mouse long gone. She felt soothed by 
the easy, rhythmic strokes of his tongue. He'll be 
waiting for me. The thought comforted her as she 
glanced up at the cave. 

“Are you ready?” His mew made her jump. 

Moth Flight nodded, her eyes wide. 

“Yow ll be fine,’ Micah promised. They stood up 
together and he padded beside her as she climbed up 
the slope. Scrabbling the last few tail-lengths, she 
leaped onto the lip of the cave. The stone was smooth 


beneath her paws. Micah jumped up next to her and 
peered inside. “It’s a good thing you’ve got whiskers,” 
he muttered. “You’re going to need them to tell where 
you’re going.” 

She glanced into the darkness. “I’ve got a nose 
too, and ears,” she murmured, trying to reassure 
herself. “PI be okay.” 

“T know.” Micah caught her eye, his gaze solemn. 
She felt his breath on her muzzle as he leaned forward 
and touched his nose to hers. “But be careful.” 

“T will” Turning away, Moth Flight padded into the 
cave. 

It felt huge—high and wide enough for a Twoleg. 
She sniffed the air tentatively, but there was no living 
creature in here except her. All she could smell was 
stone and stagnant water. She padded deeper into the 
gloom, straining to see how far it reached into 
Highstones. Blackness lay ahead and, as she padded 
onward and the weak starlight faded behind her, she 
realized that this was a tunnel, not a cave. As darkness 
swallowed her, she waited for fear to flare in her belly, 
but none came. She felt curiously calm, her paw steps 
steady on the smooth stone floor. 


A chill reached through her pelt. This sunless place 
felt colder than a snowbound night on the moor. She 
opened her mouth and let the damp air bathe her 
tongue, tasting the tang of stone as freezing air filled 
her chest. 

The ground sloped beneath her paws. Stone 
touched her whiskers on one side and she let it guide 
her as the tunnel began to bend. She was blind here, 
though her eyes were wide open, straining to see any 
glimpse of light. But, with blackness on every side, she 
could only follow the twists and turns by touch as the 
tunnel spiraled down into the earth. She was surprised 
to feel peace spread from her belly through every hair 
on her pelt. It was as though the stone welcomed her 
and was leading her deeper into its heart. She listened, 
ears stretched, and heard a distant drop of water 
resound on hard rock. 

How far must I go? As she began to wonder if 
the tunnel would lead on forever, her whiskers 
suddenly tingled and she smelled crispness in the dank 
air. She quickened her step. Fresh air lay ahead! Had 
she reached the other side of Highstones? Or perhaps 
she had circled back to the hole where Micah was 


waiting. Expecting any moment to turn a corner and 
find herself beneath a wide moonlit sky, she stepped 
instead into a cavern glimmering with watery starlight. 
She could hardly make out the walls, but she 
recognized it at once. Heart quickening, she scanned 
the cave and saw the huge rock jutting at its center. 

Just like my dream! 

She looked up and saw the hole in the roof. Stars 
flickered beyond and she could see the moon sliding 
into sight. 

Moth Flight glanced expectantly at the rock. She 
knew what would happen next. 

As the moon lifted higher, the rock suddenly 
sparked into light. 

Moth Flight narrowed her eyes against the glare. 

The great stone was glittering like countless 
dewdrops sparkling in sunlight. The cave shimmered in 
its glow. 

Are the spirit-cats here? Moth Flight glanced 
around eagerly. But nothing moved in the cave. She 
was the only cat there. 

Pushing away disappointment, she padded to the 
spot where the gray she-cat had lain, and pressed her 


belly to the icy floor. Tucking her paws beneath her, 
she tried to imagine the she-cat’s warmth still lingering 
in the stone. Her pelt tingled with excitement. This is 
where I was meant to come! Closing her eyes, she 
stretched her muzzle forward and touched her nose to 
the sparkling rock. 





CHAPTER 11 
+ 


Light flared through her, tingling in every hair. Moth 
Flight opened her eyes, aware of paws scuffing the 
stone floor around her. She sat up, blinking. She was 
no longer alone. By the light of the moonlit stone, she 
could see the shimmering pelts of spirit-cats all around 
her. They were staring at her. 

They can see me! Joy swelled in Moth Flight’s 
chest. At last! They can see me! 

She met the gaze of a tabby tom, who dipped his 
head to her, then looked at the tortoiseshell she-cat 
beside him, who closed her eyes slowly, nodding a 
greeting. Moth Flight’s fur pricked along her spine. 
These cats were showing respect! Didn’t they know 
she was just a young WindClan cat who hadn’t even 
learned to hunt properly yet? 

A glittering gray pelt moved toward her and she 
recognized the face of Gray Wing. “You’re here!” she 
breathed, excitement fizzing in her paws. 

Gray Wing stopped a muzzle-length from her nose. 
“Welcome, Moth Flight.” His eyes glowed with pride. 


“You've come at last.” 

“Welcome.” 

“Welcome.” 

“You’ve come at last.” 

Murmurs of greeting rippled through the gathered 
cats. 

What did they mean? Moth Flight’s heart 
quickened. “Come at last?” she echoed, puzzled. 

A white she-cat padded forward and stopped 
beside Gray Wing. Her pelt glistened with starlight and 
her green eyes glowed emerald as though lit by ancient 
wisdom. Moth Flight found herself drawn into the 
white cat’s gaze, breath catching in her throat. 

“I'm Half Moon.” Affection warmed the she-cat's 
mew. “We’ve been waiting for you.” 

“For me?” Moth Flight stepped back, surprised. 
“Do you know me?” The spirit-cats had looked 
straight through her in her dreams; they never even 
saw her. 

Half Moon seemed to read her thoughts. “We 
know every cat.” 

“How?” Moth Flight blinked at her. 

“We watch over you.” She gazed wistfully at the 


hole in the roof. 

Moth Flight glanced at the stars twinkling outside. 
Did the spirit-cats live up there like some kind of... 
Clan? 

Half Moon’s gaze flashed toward her once more. 
“Like the stars, we light your way when it grows dark. 
We know what is in your hearts and your dreams.” 

“Then why couldn’t you see me in my dreams 
about the blue-gray she-cat?” Moth Flight glanced 
around the glittering cats. Was the she-cat here? There 
was no sign of her. “You were right in this cave with 
her. I saw you!” 

Half Moon dipped her head. “Some dreams you 
must dream alone.” 

Moth Flight narrowed her eyes. “But my dreams 
led me here.” 

“The moth led you here,” Half Moon reminded her. 

“Did you send it?” Moth Flight didn’t wait for a 
reply. Of course they sent it! “How did you know I’d 
follow it?” 

“We didn’t,” Half Moon told her. “We only hoped. 
It was the only way we could be sure that you were 
the one.” 


“The one?” Moth Flight's tail tip twitched 
anxiously. She suddenly felt very far from home. She 
glanced at Gray Wing’s familiar face, hungry for 
reassurance. 

But Gray Wing dipped his head and stepped back. 
“Half Moon will explain.” 

The white she-cat sat down and tucked her tail 
over her paws. “We brought you here for a reason,” 
she began. 

“Why me? I’m not special. I’m just a—” 

Half Moon silenced her with a look. “You are 
special.” 

Moth Flight remembered Gorse Fur’s words on the 
moortop. Dust Muzzle will make a fine hunter one 
day, but Moth Flight is special. She stared at her 
paws. “I can’t hunt as well as the others. I keep 
getting distracted.” Had the spirit-cats brought her all 
this way to tell her she wasn’t good enough to be a 
Clan cat? 

“We know,” Half Moon meowed softly. “But that’s 
not a bad thing. We want you to carry on being 
yourself.” 

“Being myself?” What did that mean? 


“Honor the qualities that make you who you are,” 
Half Moon went on gently. “Your curiosity, your 
dreams, your openness to the world around you.” 

Moth Flight blinked at her in surprise. “But they 
are useless qualities in a Clan. Curiosity and dreams 
don’t feed hungry bellies.” Moth Flight could hear her 
mother’s voice as she spoke. 

Half Moon’s tail twitched. “Let your Clanmates fill 
empty bellies. They will always be better hunters than 
you.” 

Moth Flight’s pelt burned with shame. 

“You have strengths no other cat has,” Half Moon 
went on. “Of course curiosity is no good for a hunter, 
nor is an open mind. A hunter must focus on the prey 
in front of his nose. He misses the things that you 
notice.” 

Moth Flight struggled to understand. “But all I see 
are stars in puddles and interesting plants!” 

“You saw this cave in your dreams,” Half Moon 
pointed out. “You clearly have a stronger connection 
with us than any other cat has.” 

“But other cats have seen you!” Moth Flight 
argued. 


“That was at the beginning. Before the Clans had 
found their way. Now things must change.” Half Moon 
glanced around her starry companions. “The Clans 
need more than leadership and strength; they need 
nurture and care. But it must come from within. We 
can’t guide their paws in everything. That is why we 
have chosen you to be the first medicine cat.” 

Moth Flight’s pelt rippled along her spine. 
“Medicine cat? What do you mean?” 

Half Moon tipped her head. “You will learn to heal 
your Clanmates when they are sick or wounded using 
plants from the moor, forest, and river.” 

Moth Flight remembered each of the leaves she’d 
brought back to camp over the past few moons. Could 
some of them be used to heal? How would she know? 
She shifted her paws, her thoughts quickening. When 
she’d been a kit, her littermate, Morning Whisker, had 
died from the sickness that had swept through the 
Clans. Then Cloud Spots had figured out that an herb 
—the Blazing Star—could fight the illness, and the sick 
cats were cured. And there were already cats skilled 
in helping others. Last leafbare, when every cat had 
been coughing and many became so sick they could 


not hunt, Pebble Heart from ShadowClan had brought 
herbs to cure them. Dappled Pelt had come from 
RiverClan and helped Slate birth her kits. She could 
start by learning from these cats. 

Enthusiasm pulsed through her paws. Then she 
could discover new herbs. One day, she might find her 
own Blazing Star—an herb that would save her 
Clanmates! Moth Flight’s heart quickened. She 
imagined Wind Runner watching her heal a sick cat. 
She could already see the surprise in her mother’s 
eyes. She wont be angry with me anymore! And my 
Clanmates will stop thinking I’m useless! 

A purr sounded in Half Moon’s throat and Moth 
Flight’s attention snapped back to the starry she-cat. 
Half Moon was gazing at her fondly. “You look like 
you relish the challenge.” 

“I do.” Moth Flight met her green gaze, suddenly 
aware that she could feel her paws trembling. “T just 
hope I’m good enough.” 

A brown tabby she-cat pushed past Half Moon. 
Moth Flight backed away, unnerved by the fierceness 
in the tabby’s starry gaze. 

“You must devote yourself to your Clan,” the she- 


cat growled. 

Moth Flight stiffened crossly. J already do! 

Half Moon brushed her tail soothingly along the 
tabby’s spine. “She will come to know that, Rainswept 
Flower. In time.” 

An orange tabby she-cat called from the far side 
of the rock. “You must learn the way of healing 
herbs.” 

“And you must learn to recognize the omens we 
send you!” A tom, his pelt dark as night sky and 
glittering with stars, padded closer. His gaze was stern. 
“Only you will know what our omens mean. You must 
use such knowledge to advise your leader.” 

Advise Wind Runner? Moth Flight blinked. “She”Il 
never listen to me!” 

The black tom didn’t blink. “Then you must be 
strong. You must make her listen.” 

Half Moon nodded. “Moon Shadow is right. This is 
not an easy task we give you. But we are relying on 
you to keep your Clan safe.” 

Moth Flights mouth grew dry. “PI try” she 
promised softly. “But what about the other Clans? Do I 
have to I keep them safe as well?” 


Moon Shadow answered her. “Each Clan will have 
its own medicine cat.” 

Moth Flight blinked. “Have you spoken with them 
already?” 

“You must tell them,” Moon Shadow ordered. 

“But how will I know who they are?” Moth Flight 
felt dizzy. How could she tell other cats how they must 
live their lives? And was she ready to change her own 
life—to spend it healing rather than hunting? She 
would be responsible for her Clanmates! 

Half Moon shifted, gently shoomg Moon Shadow 
and Rainswept Flower backward with her tail. She 
glanced at the empty stone in front of Moth Flight. 
“Watch.” 

Moth Flight followed her gaze, gasping as a shape 
shimmered into view. “Dappled Pelt!” She recognized 
the RiverClan she-cat, curled in a nest fast asleep, and 
wondered how she could be here in the cave. 
Tentatively, she reached out and tried to touch the she- 
cat’s pelt. Her paw passed through arr. 

“She is at home, dreaming in her nest,” Half Moon 
glanced over her shoulder and beckoned a brown-and- 
white tabby she-cat closer with a flick of her tail. 


“Bright Stream. Come and share your blessing with 
Dappled Pett.” 

Bright Stream padded toward the vision, her gaze 
warm as she leaned close. She touched her nose to the 
sleeping head. “Protect them,” she whispered. 

Moth Flight half expected Dappled Pelt to wake, 
but she faded from view and another cat took her 
place. 

Cloud Spots! 

As Moth Flight blinked at the sleeping 
ThunderClan tom, Half Moon called to another of her 
companions. “Jackdaw’s Cry!” 

A black tom hurried forward. He looked fondly at 
the black-and-white cat. “Take care of your Clan.” 
Jackdaw’s Cry stretched his muzzle to touch his old 
Tribemate with his nose. 

Cloud Spots flashed out of sight and a gray tom 
replaced him. 

Pebble Heart. Moth Flight wasn’t surprised to see 
the ShadowClan tom appear. He’d always known 
more about herbs than any cat. 

A tortoiseshell she-cat padded past Half Moon. 
Her pelt shimmered as she stopped beside the vision of 


Pebble Heart. Moth Flight guessed who she was 
before Half Moon said her name. 

“Be quick, Turtle Tail. The moon is passing.” Half 
Moon’s mew was thick. 

Moth Flight knew that Turtle Tail was Pebble 
Heart’s mother. She’d been killed by a monster while 
trying to rescue her kits. She died the day I was 
born. Moth Flight felt weak with anguish as she saw 
joy and grief glisten like sunshine through rain in the 
tortoiseshell’s green gaze. 

Turtle Tail touched her nose to her kit’s head. “T 
always knew you were special,” she murmured. “Take 
care of them all, my dear.” 

Pebble Heart stirred, his ear twitching as his 
mother’s muzzle grazed it. Then he huffed and turned 
in his sleep, and the vision faded. 

Gray Wing moved to Turtle Tail’s side and guided 
her away, his tail curled protectively across her spine. 

Moth Flight watched the pair take their place 
among their companions. Who next? Medicine cats 
had been chosen for every Clan except SkyClan. She 
looked back at the stone and blinked as yellow fur 
shimmered into view. Theres no yellow cat in 


SkyClan. She stiffened as she recognized the slender 
shoulders and smooth back of the tom. “Micah!” 

Shock pulsed through her. Unlike the others, Micah 
wasn’t asleep. He sat, alert, gazing ahead, as though 
waiting. 

He's waiting for me. 

A small tabby she-cat brushed in front of Half 
Moon. 

“Petal.” Half Moon purred fondly as she passed. 

Moth Flight stared as Petal approached the vision 
of Micah. “How can he be a medicine cat?” she 
gasped. “He doesn’t belong to any Clan!” 

“Nor did I, once.” Petal blinked at her, her eyes 
elittering in the light from the stone. She leaned 
forward and brushed her muzzle against Micah’s 
cheek. “Protect your Clan as though they had raised 
you.” 

Micah didn’t flinch, but carried on staring, serenely 
unaware that spirit-cats were watching him. Moth 
Flight wanted to call out to him that she was safe and 
she could see him. But she knew he wouldn’t hear. 

As Micah faded away, Half Moon stepped 
forward once more. “You must return to your Clan 


now, Moth Flight. Tell the cats what we have shown 
you.” 

Moth Flight stiffened. “All of them?” She’d have 
to convince every cat that what she’d seen was real. 
How would she make them believe her? 

“Just speak your truth, Moth Flight.” Half Moon’s 
mew was firm. “Have faith in who and what you are.” 

Tam a medicine cat. Moth Flight lifted her chin as 
the white cat went on. 

“Next half-moon, and every half-moon after that, 
you and the other medicine cats must return here and 
we'll speak again.” 

“Next half-moon? T’Il need more time that that!” 
Moth Flight spluttered. She pictured Tall Shadow sitting 
sternly in her bramble den, and Clear Sky’s thick tail 
flicking scornfully. And Thunder! He was the most 
powerful tom she’d ever seen. She’d never even 
spoken to the mysterious River Ripple. And Wind 
Runner... 

Her paws felt suddenly hot against the icy stone. / 
dont even know if "ll be able to convince my own 
mother! “I can’t do it!” Her heart pounded in her 
chest. “TIl never be able to do it!” 





CHAPTER 12 
+ 


Half Moon whisked her tail irritably. “Have faith in 
yourself!” 

Moth Flight’s hackles lifted. That was easy for her 
to say! You re dead! What do you have to lose? “My 
Clan thinks I’m feather-headed enough,” she snapped. 
“If I go back with stories about talking to spirit-cats 
and telling them that they're supposed to have 
medicine cats and I should be one, they'll think I’m a 
complete birdbrain!” 

“The moonlight will be gone soon. We don’t have 
long,” Half Moon warned. “This is your destiny, 
whether you want it or not. You have no choice but to 
follow it. Every Clan’s destiny depends on you, though 
they don’t know it yet. But they will. And there will 
come a time when they will listen to you and you 
alone. I can tell you this, but it’s up to you to earn their 
respect.” 

“How?” Moth Flight felt frantic. At any moment 
the moon might pass over the hole and the cave would 
be plunged into darkness. She’d be alone, to face the 


Clans by herself. “I haven’t managed to earn any cat’s 
respect so far! Wind Runner told me I was a danger to 
my Clan. I lost Slate’s kits. I nearly got Gorse Fur 
killed by a monster. I’m useless!” Her mew broke as 
hopelessness overwhelmed her. She dropped her gaze 
to the moon-washed stone. 

Downy fur moved in front of her. She lifted her 
head to see a tom-kit nosing past Half Moon. He was 
tiny, and looked hardly more than a day old, although 
his eyes were open and bright. A she-kit stopped 
beside him, a little bigger, but less than a moon old. 
Moth Flight blinked at them, shocked to see kits among 
the spirit-cats, but then her nose twitched. She 
recognized their scent. For a moment she was back in 
Wind Runner’s nest, nuzzling for milk at her mother’s 
belly beside Dust Muzzle. “Morning Whisker? Is that 
you?” She stared at the she-kit. Morning Whisker had 
died in the sickness that swept the Clans. She looked 
well now, her starry pelt fluffed out, her eyes sparkling. 

Morning Whisker nodded. “It's good to see you, 
Moth Flight.” 

Moth Flight’s gaze flicked to the tom-kit. He’d died 
before she could know him, on the day they were born. 


“Emberkit?” 

“Hello, Moth Flight,” he purred. 

Morning Whisker padded closer. “You have to do 
this, Moth Flight,” she urged. “The Clans need you.” 

“But I don’t know how,” Moth Flight answered 
bleakly. “Wind Runner’s never going to listen to me.” 

“She will,” Morning Whisker insisted. 

“You don’t know that.” 

Morning Whisker’s gaze hardened. “We share 
three things, Moth Flight.” 

“What?” How could she share anything with these 
dead kits? 

“Isn’t it obvious?” Emberkit pushed in front, fur 
spiking. “We share a history, a future, and—” 

Morning Whisker interrupted her brother. “Let 
Moth Flight tell us the third thing.” 

Moth Flight frowned, trying to guess. “I don’t kno 
—” Then she realized. “A mother!” She paused, 
breathless with anguish. She’d never wondered before 
about her brother who’d died. And yet, here he was, 
as bright and strong as a living kit. Their sister stood 
beside him. She hadn’t thought about Morning Whisker 
for moons. Her pelt pricked along her spine. Wind 


Runner was their mother too! Moth Flight was used to 
sharing Wind Runner with Dust Muzzle, but Dust 
Muzzle had always seemed independent; he’d never 
worried about Wind Runner’s approval. He’d never 
had to; everything came naturally to him. But these kits 
had been Wind Runner’s too, before they’d been taken 
from her. Did Wind Runner still think about them? Of 
course she did! She must miss them! Is Wind Runner 
missing me too? With a pang, she remembered her 
mother’s angry words as they’d parted. “I just wish I 
could please her,” she murmured sadly. 

“You will” Morning Whisker mewed. 

“Of course you will!” Emberkit’s tail was twitching 
excitedly. “In time she will understand everything. Until 
then, she will support you because you are her kit.” 

Moth Flight wasn’t convinced. “She thinks I’m 
useless.” 

“She can be harsh,” Morning Whisker conceded. 
“But are you surprised? The moor is a harsh place. 
She lost us there. If she’s strict, it’s because she 
worries about you, not because she thinks you’re 
useless.” 

Emberkit stepped forward and lifted his muzzle 


close to Moth Flight’s. His breath felt warm on her 
nose. “She just wants to protect you. It’s a mother’s 
strongest instinct. When you’re medicine cat and your 
Clanmates are relying on you, you will feel the same 
way.” 

Moth Flight’s ear twitched uneasily. Will I have to 
be mother to the whole Clan? 

Around her, the starry cats began to fade, 
becoming so translucent that she could only see the 
stars in their pelts. 

Emberkit was no more than shimmering light 
before her. 

“Don’t go!” Panic blazed beneath her pelt. She 
called to Half Moon, whose green gaze was growing 
pale. “You haven’t told me how I can convince the 
Clans to listen to me! Won’t you come to the full moon 
Gathering and tell them yourself?” 

“No.” Half Moon’s mew was barely an echo. “But 
we will send a sign when you tell them, to let them 
know that we speak through you now.” 

“A sign?” How would she know it? What should 
she look for? The cats were disappearing one by one. 
“What sign?” she mewed desperately as the moon 


passed out of sight and the cave was swallowed by 
shadow. 

A voice echoed from the blackness. “We will split 
the sky. And later, stars will rise.” 

Split the sky? What did that mean? Moth Flight 
struggled for breath. The darkness seemed suddenly 
suffocating. Later, stars will rise... . . 

What could it possibly mean? 





CHAPTER 13 
+ 


Moth Flight followed the tunnel upward, her paws 
trembling. Was she really going to be responsible for 
any sick cats in her Clan? How would she explain it all 
to Wind Runner? Why did the spirit-cats want to speak 
through her? 

Your curiosity, your dreams, your openness to 
the world around you. 

She remembered Half Moon’s words. 

The spirit-cats believe in me. . . . Joy surged 
beneath her pelt, pushing her doubts away. Suddenly, 
the cold stone beneath her paws felt like it belonged to 
her. This was her place. She’d found it. Determination 
hardened in her belly. J wont let you down, she 
promised silently. 

Starlight showed through the darkness ahead, 
seeping like water into the tunnel. Moth Flight 
quickened her pace, breaking into a run as she neared 
the opening. She leaped from the ledge, sending stones 
clattermg down the steep slope. 

Micah, sitting on the wide stone below, turned, his 


eyes flashing in the moonlight. “What happened?” He 
bounded toward her and met her, breathless, halfway 
up the slope. 

She skidded to a halt and stared into his starlit 
eyes. “It was amazing,” she breathed. 

“I was worried. You were gone so long.” His gaze 
flitted over her pelt, as though he was checking that 
she wasn’t hurt. 

“Pm fine,’ she reassured him. She shuddered, 
realizing how cold she was. The dampness of the 
tunnel had reached to her bones. She fluffed out her 
pelt. 

Micah began to steer her gently down the slope. 
“There’s still a little warmth from the sun left in the 
rock.” Nudging her up onto the wide stone where he’d 
been waiting, he joined her. 

A dead mouse was lying in the middle. “I thought 
you might be hungry.” 

“Thanks.” Moth Flight blinked at him gratefully. 
“But I don’t think I could eat anything right now. Pm 
too excited.” She could feel faint warmth beneath her 
paws and crouched, pressing her belly to the rock. 
Micah crouched beside her, his fur barely brushing 


hers, just close enough for her to feel the heat from his 
pelt. 

“Do you want to talk about it?” Micah asked 
softly. 

Moth Flight stared at him. “Of course. It was the 
most amazing thing that ever happened to me!” 

Micah gazed at her eagerly. 

“There was a cave at the end of the tunnel. Just 
like the one I saw in my dream. It has a big rock at the 
center and a hole in the roof and when the moonlight 
hit the rock, it blazed like a fire! And then the spirit- 
cats appeared.” 

“You saw them for real?” Micah widened his eyes. 

Moth Flight nodded. “Even Gray Wing this time.” 

Micah gazed at her blankly. 

“He was part of our Clan until he died a moon 
ago,” she explained. “It was good to see him again.” 

“Were all these spirit-cats once alive?” Micah 
asked. 

“Yes!” Moth Flight could still hardly believe she’d 
spoken with them. “I didn’t recognize many.” The 
memory of Morning Whisker and Emberkit burned 
brightly in her mind. “I saw my dead littermates.” 


Micah blinked. “Pm sorry! I didn’t know you'd lost 

Moth Flight interrupted him. She didn’t need 
sympathy. “I’m glad I saw them. They were so wise. 
They looked like kits still but they acted like grown 
cats.” 

“You spoke to them?” 

“They told me not to be scared of Wind Runner. 
She’s only stern because she cares about me.” 

Micah’s breath stirred her cheek fur. “Didn’t you 
know that already?” 

Moth Flight hunched her shoulders. “I always 
thought she was disappointed in me because I couldn’t 
hunt as well as Dust Muzzle.” 

Micah’s eyes flashed teasingly. “I guess she 
wishes you’d bring prey home instead of plants,” he 
joked. “But how could she not love you?” 

Moth Flight shifted self-consciously. Micah’s stare 
seemed suddenly too intense to bear. Was he just 
humoring her? Did he think she was crazy? She was 
talking about dead cats! “You believe me, don’t you?” 

“Pve dreamed about you since I was a kit.” 
Micah’s ears twitched. “Now that I’ve met you for 


real, I can believe anything.” 

Moth Flight felt relief sweep over her. She was 
lucky to have someone to share this with, someone 
who believed her. She suddenly pictured her 
Clanmates. What would they say when she told them 
that the spirit-cats had told her she was special? But 
you're a featherbrain! She imagined Swift Minnow’s 
scornful mew. 

“Tell me what they said.” Micah’s voice jerked her 
from her thoughts. 

“They told me I was to become a medicine cat and 
learn about herbs and healing and that they would send 
me omens and I had to explain the omens to Wind 
Runner.” Moth Flight’s chest tightened. “They said it 
was my destiny.” She gazed deep into Micah’s eyes, 
expecting uncertainty, but he stared back solemnly. 
“Do you think I can do it?” she asked anxiously. 

“You have dreams about moths and spirit-cats and 
you love to collect plants instead of prey.” Micah sat 
up and stretched. “You’ll do it brilliantly.” 

“Do you really think so?” She jumped to her paws. 

“Do you want to do it?” 

Moth Flight imagined herself treating cats, 


collecting herbs, advismg Wind Runner and searching 
the stars for omens. Anticipation prickled beneath her 
pelt. “Yes!” Her tail quivered. “But it’s not just me,” 
she went on. “They want Cloud Spots to be a medicine 
cat too. And Pebble Heart and Dappled Pelt and—” 
She stopped herself. Was Micah ready to be told of his 
destiny? He’d only agreed to follow the moth with her, 
not to give up his life on the farm to live with the 
Clans. “T have to tell them. I have to tell all of them 
what I’ve seen.” She felt her paws begin to tremble 
again. 

“Of course!” Micah swished his tail, excitedly. 
“They'll want to know.” 

Moth Flight dropped her gaze, feeling suddenly 
small beneath the wide starry sky. Could she really do 
this? As she tried to imagine telling her Clan that she’d 
spoken with Gray Wing and Half Moon and Emberkit, 
her paws pricked with alarm. “They already think I’m 
a birdbrain. This will just prove it.” 

“Why?” Micah frowned, puzzled. 

Hopelessness swamped Moth Flight. “I’ve done so 
many dumb things,’ she confessed. “They won’t 
believe me.” 


“They have to believe you!” Micah puffed out his 
chest. “/ believe you.” 

“You don’t know how dumb I can be.” 

Micah padded around her, impatiently. “You’re not 
dumb.” 

“You don’t know me.” 

“Yes, I do!” Micah stopped and stared at her. “I’ve 
never met a cat who goes off chasing moths or 
disappears into strange tunnels in the middle of the 
night or tells me that she’s going to learn how to heal 
and read omens.” He paused, his gaze sparkling so 
intensely that her heart seemed to miss a beat. “You’re 
wonderful!” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws nervously. Would he 
think she was so wonderful when she told him about 
his destiny? “You’re part of it,” she blurted. 

Micah stiffened. “Part of what?” 

“You’re meant to be a medicine cat too.” 

“On the farm?” He tipped his head, puzzled. 

“No!” Moth Flight paced across the stone and 
looked over the trees to the distant moor, curving like a 
cat’s spine against the glittermg sky. “You’re to be 
SkyClan’s medicine cat.” 


“That’s your Clan, right?” Micah stopped beside 
her. 

“No.” Moth Flight steadied her breath. “I’m from 
WindClan. SkyClan is Clear Sky’s group. They live in 
the forest, not on the moor.” She felt Micah shift 
uneasily beside her. 

“So PI live there, and not with you?” 

Her heart lifted. He hadn’t said no. She turned 
sharply and faced him. “Do you mean you'll do it? 
Become a medicine cat for the Clans?” 

Micah returned her gaze, but she could read 
nothing in his eyes. “The leader of SkyClan,” he 
began. “He’s a tom, right? Fierce. He likes bossing 
other cats around.” 

Moth Flight’s mouth grew dry as he went on. 

“Is he suspicious of other cats? And proud? Gray 
with blue eyes?” 

Moth Flight backed away, startled. He was 
describing Clear Sky exactly. “How do you know?” 

‘Tve dreamed of him,” he murmured. “I dream 
I’m bringing him catmint to help a sick kit.” 

“Catmint?” Moth Flight pricked her ears. 

“It’s an herb that grows behind the barn. It looks a 


bit like nettles but the leaves are smaller and they don’t 
sting. You'll know if you ever see some. It smells 
great. And it helps coughs.” Micah whisked his tail 
impatiently. “I keep having the same dream. The kit’s 
always sick and the gray tom’s ordering me to hurry 
with the catmint.” He blinked at her. “But I can see 
now—it wasnt a dream! None of my dreams have 
been dreams. I’ve been seeing my destiny!” His fur 
rippled with surprise. He lifted his gaze toward the 
moor. 

Moth Flight shifted her paws nervously. He’d just 
discovered that the life he’d planned was not the life 
that had been planned for him. “Do you mind?” 

“Why should I mind?” Micah shrugged. “It’s 
pointless to mind your own destiny. You just have to 
face it.” 

Moth Flight wondered how he could be so calm. 
Fear hollowed her belly as she tried to imagine the 
moons that lay head of her. “Aren’t you scared?” 

“No,” he meowed softly. “One path is as good as 
another. It’s not knowing which one to take that’s 
scary. Now that I know where I’m meant to be going, 
there’s nothing to fear.” He looked at her. “For either 


of us.” 

“Do you promise?” Her mew quavered. 

“I promise.” His green gaze was steady. Starlight 
sparkled in its depths. 

Moth Flight reached out her muzzle and touched 
his. Her heart slowed as his nose brushed her cheek. 
She felt soothed by his stillness, aware of the moonlight 
washing their pelts. 





CHAPTER 14 
+ 


“Wake up.” 

Moth Flight felt a muzzle nudging her shoulder. She 
lifted her head, blinking at the bright sunshine. Where 
am I? Confused for a moment, she saw Micah, 
standing beside her on the smooth, wide rock at the 
foot of Highstones. 

Memories flooded her. The night before! The 
spirit-cats! The moonlit stone! 

Heart leaping, she scrambled to her paws. “We 
have to get back and tell Wind Runner!” They’d talked 
until dawn had crept over the moortop, and then slept. 
Now the sun was sinking behind them. “Come on!” 

“There’s no hurry. We can eat first.” Micah 
jumped off the rock and sniffed for prey underneath. 

“There isn’t time. It’s full moon tonight. We have 
to get back and tell her before the Gathering. Then she 
can let the others know.” Moth Flight leaped from the 
rock and headed across the stony ground, toward the 
fields. If she could convince Wind Runner that the 
Clans needed to have medicine cats, then Wind Runner 


could explain everything to the other leaders. They 
might not believe me, but they'll believe the 
WindClan leader. 

She heard Micah’s paw steps hurry after her. 
“What’s the Gathering?” 

“The Clans meet every full moon to share 
tongues,” Moth Flight explained quickly, her eyes fixed 
on the meadow ahead. “They swap information about 
dangers, like Twolegs or dogs, and how the prey’s 
running. It helps keep the peace.” 

“Do the Clans fight?” Micah sounded surprised. 

“They did once,” Moth Flight told him. “Now we 
meet and share so that we’ll never fight again.” 

She quickened her pace. The moor looked a long 
way off. They’d be lucky to get there before dusk. 

“We’ll travel faster on full bellies,” Micah scanned 
the land around them as stones gave way to grass 
beneath their paws. 

Moth Flight kept her gaze firmly ahead. “If you see 
prey as we travel, then catch it. But I’m not stopping.” 

Evening was flooding the valley by the time they 
neared the steep hill that climbed to the moor. Micah 
had caught a shrew he’d spotted as they leaped a 


ditch. He’d killed it and they’d quickly shared it 
between them. It hadn’t stopped Moth Flight’s hunger. 
Her belly was rumbling as she caught sight of the 
Thunderpath, but she ignored it. She must concentrate 
on crossing. The wide strip of black stone cut across 
their trail and Moth Flight stopped at the edge. Her ear 
fur tingled, picking up the distant roar of a monster. 
Stale monster scent soured her tongue. 

“Come on.” Micah hurried onto the flat stone. He 
stopped in the middle and turned as she hung back on 
the verge. She remembered the last time she was 
here. Fear wormed in her belly. She’d nearly got Gorse 
Fur killed. What if he’d died? J was so rabbit- 
brained! Had Wind Runner forgiven her? 

You re a danger to your Clan. 

Moth Flight stared at the Thunderpath, her mouth 
suddenly dry. Spotted Fur had promised everything 
would be fine by the morning. That had been two days 
ago. Would it really be fine? 

It has to be! I’m going to be a medicine cat. She 
forced herself to remember Morning Whisker’s words. 
If she’s strict, its because she worries about you, 
not because she thinks you re useless. A spirit-cat 


couldn’t be wrong, could she? 

“Moth Flight!” Micah’s yowl made her jump. She 
blinked, focusing on him. The roaring of the monster 
was louder. Its silhouette loomed on the horizon. 
Glaring eyes blazed through the twilight, blanching 
Micah’s yellow pelt. 

I’m not risking another cats life! 

Moth Flight pelted forward, whisking past Micah. 
“Come on!” She glanced over her shoulder, relieved to 
see him hare after her as she made for the far side of 
the Thunderpath. She skidded to a halt, grass snagging 
between her claws. Micah slowed beside her. Foul 
wind tugged her fur as the monster roared past, 
honking like a goose. 

“That was close!” Micah panted. 

Moth Flight blinked at him anxiously. His pelt was 
bushed. “I didn’t expect you to wait for me in the 
middle.” 

“I didn’t expect you to stand daydreaming at the 
side!” 

“Next time, don’t wait for me,” she told him. “T get 
distracted.” 

Micah’s ears twitched uneasily. “Are there any 


Thunderpaths on the moor?” 

“No.” 

“Good.” 

They climbed the slope in silence. As they reached 
the top, the setting sun warmed Moth Flight’s back for 
a moment before it slipped behind Highstones. She 
stopped and blinked through the dusky half-light. She 
could smell WindClan scents clinging to the gorse 
ahead. And the heather, fragrant with evening dew. 
Her paws pricked with happiness. She was home! 

She glanced at Micah. It was strange to have him 
beside her. She was used to crossing this grass with 
her Clanmates. Was he nervous? He was entering 
unknown territory. “Are you ready?” 

Micah gazed across the moor sloping away in front 
of them. The forest stood beyond, no more than a 
shadow against the purpling sky now. He lifted his tail. 
“T’m ready.” 

“Follow me.” Moth Flight headed toward the 
gorse, weaving between the thickly clustered bushes. 
Flower buds had begun to unfurl since she’d left and 
their sweet perfume filled her nose. She quickened her 
pace as they reached an open stretch of grass. 


“How long have the Clans lived here?” Micah 
trotted at her side. 

“Not too long. We were one big group once,” Moth 
Flight explained. “But we split into Clans moons ago. 
Some preferred the pine forest, some preferred the 
oaks. Some wanted to live beside the river.” She 
glanced sideways at Micah. “They swim.” 

“They swim?” Micah’s ears twitched. “Why?” 

“Only the stars know.” Moth Flight had never 
understood any cat who enjoyed getting their fur wet. 
“Wind Runner and Gorse Fur have always been moor 
cats. So that’s where we live.” She pointed her muzzle 
toward the shadowy dip in the hillside that enclosed the 
camp. 

Micah narrowed his eyes. Moth Flight wished she 
could tell what he was thinking. 

She broke into a run. She didn’t want him to lose 
his nerve. “Come on.” The full moon was rising into a 
clear sky. “They'll be heading to Fourtrees soon. I 
have to speak to Wind Runner before she leaves.” 

She smelled Spotted Fur’s scent as she ducked into 
a swath of heather. The golden-brown tom had 
followed this path through the bushes earlier and, by 


the smell of it, Dust Muzzle had been with him. Their 
scents rose from the earth. Wait till I tell them where 
I’ve been! Excitement buzzed beneath her pelt. Wind 
Runner will have to believe me! She suddenly felt 
sure that she could convince her mother she’d spoken 
to Half Moon. She may think I’m a featherbrain but 
she knows I wouldnt lie. She could hear Micah 
panting behind her and the heather swishing against 
their pelts as she led him zigzagging through tt. 

“Are we nearly there?” he puffed. 

“Tt’s not far.” She burst out onto open grass and 
saw the gorse wall of the camp ahead. Circling around 
it, she led Micah to the entrance. 

Above them, stars were beginning to glitter as the 
sky darkened. Js Half Moon up there watching? 
Moth Flight’s paws prickled. She was determined to 
prove that the spirit-cats had put their faith in the right 
cat. 

She ducked through the camp entrance, Micah on 
her tail. 

Storm Pelt was sitting among the tussocks, Dew 
Nose at his side. They leaped to their paws as they 
saw Moth Flight. 


“You're back!” Joy sparked in Storm Pelt’s eyes. 
Then he saw Micah and raised his hackles. “Who’s 
he?” 

“He’s a friend.” Moth Flight pulled up in front of 
the mottled gray tom. “He saved me from a dog two 
days ago.” 

Micah stiffened as Dew Nose sniffed him, 
suspicious, but kept his hackles smooth. 

“What's he doing here?” she demanded. 

“TI tell you later.” Moth Flight scanned the camp, 
her heart thumping. Wheres Wind Runner? Unease 
fluttered in her belly. Slate was playing with her kits at 
one edge of the camp while Rocky lay nearby, 
watching lazily. No one else was in camp. 

“Moth Flight! You’re back!” Silver Stripe spotted 
her and came bouncing across the grass. Black Ear 
chased after his sister excitedly. 

Slate looked up from White Tail, who was rolling 
on his back trying to swipe her mother’s tail. “You’re 
safe!” she called happily. “Wind Runner will be 
relieved.” 

“Where is Wind Runner?” Moth Flight’s heart 
quickened. 


Rocky heaved himself slowly to his paws. “She’s 
left with the others.” 

Dew Nose was still watching Micah warily. 
“They’ve gone to the full-moon Gathering.” 

“Already?” Moth Flight stared at him, her heart 
dropping like a stone. “But I wanted to speak to her.” 

Micah padded to her side, ignormg Dew Nose’s 
curiosity. “When did she leave?” 

“Not long ago,” Storm Pelt told him. 

Dew Nose stalked around her brother and glared 
at Micah. “We stayed behind to guard the kits.” 

Silver Stripe raced around Micah and Moth Flight. 
“You smell funny!” she squeaked. 

“Where have you been?” Black Ear stared at her 
with wide eyes. “You're all dusty!” 

Micah looked at the kit, his whiskers twitching with 
amusement. “We’ve been to Highstones.” 

“Highstones!” Slate was crossing the grass toward 
them, White Tail at her heels. “That's a long way from 
here.” 

“I know.” Moth Flight suddenly realized how tired 
her paws were. But she couldn’t stop now. “We have 
to catch up with Wind Runner. I’ve got something 


important to tell her.” 

Slate narrowed her eyes. “Is everything okay?” 

Moth Flight met her gaze. “Everything’s fine,” she 
promised. 

“Why the rush?” Rocky was shambling toward 
them too. But there wasn’t time to talk. 

“You'll hear about it later!” Moth Flight turned and 
headed for the entrance. “I have to catch up with Wind 
Runner.” 

“You’re not taking him to a Gathering, are you?” 
Dew Nose called after Moth Flight. Micah was 
following her. “Gatherings are for Clan cats!” 

“He’ll be a Clan cat soon!” she called over her 
shoulder. 

She burst out of camp and headed downslope. 
Opening her mouth, she tasted the air. WindClan scent 
bathed her tongue, so fresh she struggled to make out 
which way they’d gone. Micah was already sniffing 
the ground. He whipped his tail eagerly as he reached 
a spot of trampled grass a few taillengths ahead. 
“They went this way.” 

Moth Flight rushed to his side and checked the 
scents. He was right. Fresh paw-scents coated the 


tussocks here, and headed toward a wide clump of 
heather. She followed the trail, nose low, pushing 
through the bushes onto the grassy slope beyond. It led 
past the outcrop of rocks she used to hunt on with 
Dust Muzzle. Wind Runner must be leading her Clan 
along the old sheep track that went through deep 
heather and ended at the top of Fourtrees. Checking to 
see that Micah was still following, Moth Flight broke 
into a run. 

He caught up and fell in step beside her. “Do you 
think we’ll catch her in time?” 

“I think so,” Moth Flight puffed. “The scents are 
very fresh.” 

They slid into single file as heather rose around 
them and the sheep track meandered among the 
bushes, finally opening at the top of the hollow. 

Moth Flight halted and scanned the ridge. Her belly 
tightened. She couldn’t see Wind Runner or the 
WindClan cats. But she could smell their scents rising 
from the hollow. “We’re too late,” she whispered. 
“They’re down there.” 

The tops of the oaks loomed in front of them, the 
huge branches softened by a haze of leaf buds. Moth 


Flight gazed into the valley and saw pelts moving 
below. 

She shifted her paws. “Let’s wait until they’ve 
finished the Gathering. Then I can tell Wind Runner 
about the medicine cats.” 

Micah looked at her. “All the Clan leaders are 
going to be down there tonight, right?” 

Moth Flight avoided his gaze. She could guess 
what he was thinking. “You want me to go down there 
and tell every cat.” 

“They have to know,” he reasoned. 

“But I wanted to tell Wind Runner first,” Moth 
Flight argued. 

“Why?” Micah’s green gaze didn’t waver. 

Moth Flight felt hot. “Because it’s easier,’ she 
admitted. 

“Moth Flight.” Micah moved his muzzle closer until 
she could feel his warm breath billow around her nose. 
“You can do this.” 

“You want me to walk into the middle of a 
Gathering and tell all of them that some spirit-cats told 
me they should have medicine cats?” Fear tightened 
her belly. 


“The spirit-cats believe you can do it.” Micah 
didn’t move. 

Moth Flight nodded stiffly. “They told me to be 
strong.” She tried to ignore the panic flashing beneath 
her pelt. 

“Then, be strong.” Gently, Micah nudged her 
toward the top of the hollow. 

Paws numb with terror, Moth Flight let him steer 
her into the thick bracken that crowded the slope. 
Pressing against her, he guided her among the thick 
stems. Her ears twitched as she heard the murmur of 
the cats below. / cant do this! The bracken rustled 
around her as they neared the bottom of the slope. She 
felt sick. “Wait.” She paused, desperately trying to 
think of what she was going to say. 

Micah halted beside her and peered through the 
bracken. She followed his gaze. 

“Who's that gray cat?” he whispered. 

“That's Clear Sky.” 

Micah nodded. “I thought so.” 

“Did he look like that in your dream?” 

“Yes.” His gaze scanned the gathered cats. “Who 
are the cats standing beside him?” 


Moth Flight narrowed her eyes, trying to tell who 
was who. Bright moonlight shone through the budding 
oak branches, turning the pelts of the Clan cats silver. 
“That’s Jagged Peak.” She nodded toward the small 
gray tabby tom who paced beside Clear Sky. “He’s 
Clear Sky’s brother but he lives with WindClan now. 
And Thunder is the big tom next to them.” 

“Thunder is leader of ThunderClan.” Micah was 
clearly trying to learn as much as he could. 

“He’s also Clear Sky’s son.” 

Micah stared at her. “They all live in different 
Clans even though they share the same blood?” 

“Clan connections are stronger than blood ties 
now,” Moth Flight told him. She glanced back at the 
cats milling in the clearmg among the trees. Where 
was Wind Runner? Her gaze flitted from pelt to pelt 
until she recognized the narrow stripes of her mother. 
Wind Runner was pacing restlessly between Gorse Fur 
and Dust Muzzle. Spotted Fur, Fern Leaf, and Willow 
Tail sat nearby. 

The grass on the far side of the clearing swished 
as River Ripple led his cats into the clearing. Dappled 
Pelt was with him, and Shattered Ice, Night, and Pine 


Needle. 

River Ripple nodded a polite greeting to the other 
leaders and settled on an arching root beneath one of 
the oaks. As his cats gathered around him, Tall 
Shadow led Pebble Heart, Raven Pelt, Juniper Branch, 
Mud Paws, and Mouse Ear into the clearing. 

“We’re all here.” Clear Sky’s mew rang out loudly 
in the chilly night air. 

Wind Runner crossed the clearing and stopped in 
front of the SkyClan leader, dipping her head politely 
first to him, then to Thunder, River Ripple, and Tall 
Shadow. “What news do you bring?” 

“Newleaf has brought fresh prey to our part of the 
forest,” Clear Sky told her. 

“And to ours,” Thunder added. 

River Ripple hopped from the root and joined the 
other leaders. “The river is still swollen with snowmelt, 
and the fishing is good.” 

Moth Flight felt Micah shift beside her. He was 
watching the Clan cats with wide eyes. 

Wind Runner offered her report. “There are 
rabbits on the moor and the lapwings are beginning to 
nest. There will be plenty of prey by greenleaf.” 


A hiss sounded behind her. “There won’t be if 
SkyClan keeps hunting on our land.” Willow Tail 
stalked across the clearing. 

Wind Runner looked sharply at her Clanmate. 

Clear Sky stiffened. “Are you accusing us of prey- 
stealing?” 

Willow Tail faced the SkyClan leader. “Just one of 
you.” Her gaze flashed to the reddish-brown tom 
sitting behind Clear Sky. 

Moth Flight recognized Red Claw. She tensed. 
Was Willow Tail still determined to start a fight with 
the SkyClan tom? 

Red Claw got to his paws, his tail flicking 
ominously behind him. He padded toward Willow Tail, 
showing his teeth. “Why would a forest cat want to 
steal moor prey? We’ve got rabbits of our own— fatter 
than your scrawny vermin.” 

Willow Tail’s hackles lifted. “The only scrawny 
vermin on our territory lately is you!” 

Red Claw flattened his ears. 

Wind Runner pushed between them. She looked at 
Clear Sky. “You need to keep your Clan under 
control.” 


Clear Sky narrowed his eyes. “It’s your cat who’s 
trying to start a battle.” 

“She is just defending our borders,” Wind Runner 
snapped back. “Besides, it isn’t only Willow Tail who’s 
noticed. Slate found rabbit bones just on our side of the 
SkyClan border. None of my cats enjoyed that meal. 
Which of yours did?” She glared at Red Claw. 

Moth Flight’s fur prickled nervously. Slate found 
evidence? Still, one rabbit didn’t seem worth fighting 
about. The Gathering was meant to be a time of 
peace. The Clans weren’t supposed to quarrel here. 

Micah shifted beside her. “Are they going to 
fight?” 

“I hope not.” Moth Flight watched uneasily as 
Clear Sky nudged Red Claw aside and glared at Wind 
Runner. 

“Any animal could have killed that rabbit. What 
other proof do you have my cats are on your 
territory?” he growled. 

“Willow Tail saw Red Claw on the moor a few 
days ago,” Wind Runner hissed. 

“Is she telling the truth?” Clear Sky’s tail twitched 
irritably as he turned to the SkyClan tom. 


Red Claw lifted his chin. “I was there. I don’t need 
to hide it. I wasn’t hunting. Can’t we even set paw on 
another Clan’s land now?” 

Willow Tail glared at him. “Not when you’re a fox- 
hearted traitor.” 

“How dare you!” Red Claw’s eyes flashed in the 
half-light. Willow Tail let out a low warning growl. 

They mustn t fight! Blood roared in Moth Flight’s 
ears. The spirit-cats wanted her to share her news 
with the other Clans. How could she if they were at 
war? “Wait here!” She left Micah and bounded from 
the bracken. 

The cats turned, eyes glittering with surprise as 
they saw her. She skidded to a halt in the clearing, 
suddenly conscious that everyone was staring at her. 

“Moth Flight?” Wind Runner stared across the 
dappled clearing, her eyes round with dread. “Is that 
you?” 

Moth Flight blinked at her. “Of course.” Why did 
her mother look so scared? 

Wind Runner flattened her ears. “Are you dead?” 
Fear edged her mew. 

Moth Flight frowned, struggling to understand. 


Dead? Why would I be dead? She glanced at her 
paws, noticing how the moonlight was making her 
white fur glow. Then she realized, shocked. She’d 
appeared at a Gathering like a spirit-cat! Did Wind 
Runner think she’d been killed on her journey? Alarm 
spiked in her belly. “No!” She hurried toward Wind 
Runner. “Pm alive. I’ve come home!” She pressed her 
muzzle against her mother’s cheek. 

Wind Runner was trembling. 

Gorse Fur shouldered his way through the 
watching cats, his gaze glittering with anger. “Where 
have you been? We’ve been worried sick!” 

Moth Flight dipped her head apologetically. “I’m 
sorry, she mewed. “But I had to go. There was 
something I needed to find.” 

“What?” Wind Runner lifted her head sharply. Her 
grief seemed to evaporate. 

Moth Flight backed away. Clear Sky was staring at 
her. River Ripple padded closer, his eyes round with 
interest. 

Tall Shadow tipped her head to one side 
thoughtfully. 

Moth Flight’s belly fluttered with fear. She lifted 


her chin. “I bring news from the spirit-cats,” she 
began. 

“Really?” Clear Sky huffed, clearly unconvinced. 
Tall Shadow rolled her eyes. 

Moth Flight glanced toward her Clanmates, hoping 
to find support. 

But Swift Minnow was staring at her accusingly. 
“Have you been daydreaming again, Moth Flight?” 

Jagged Peak exchanged glances with Holly. 
Spotted Fur blinked at her sympathetically. 

They dont believe me. Moth Flight fought the 
panic rising in her chest. 

A low growl sounded in Red Claw’s throat. “She’s 
just trying to distract us.” He turned his gaze back to 
Willow Tail. “No cat accuses me of stealing.” 

Wind Runner hissed. “No cat steals from 
WindClan.” 

Frustration surged beneath Moth Flight’s pelt. Did 
they really think their dumb fight was more important 
than a message from their ancestors? She lashed her 
tail. “You have to listen to me!” 

Red Claw flashed her a look. “Did Wind Runner 
put you up to this, Moth Flight?” He growled. “Is she 


scared her Clan is going to look like a bunch of liars?” 

Wind Runner’s hackles lifted. “Clear Sky.” She 
glared at the SkyClan leader. “You seem to make a 
habit of taking in troublemakers. I thought you’d have 
learned after One Eye turned on you. But you're still 
filling your Clan with thieves and bullies.” 

Clear Sky’s blue gaze turned to ice. “My cats are 
brave and honest.” 

Star Flower pushed past Blossom and Acorn Fur 
and stood beside her mate. “Clear Sky is a great 
leader. He knows his cats and he knows they would 
never lie!” 

Wind Runner curled her lip. “Then why did Slate 
find rabbit bones at the border?” 

Red Claw snorted. “How do we know Slate is 
telling the truth?” 

“Slate is not a liar!” Wind Runner hissed. 

“Stop it!” Frustration flared through Moth Flight. 
“I'm trying to tell you the most important news you’ ll 
ever hear. The future of the Clans depends on it!” She 
stiffened, surprised by her own boldness. 

Dust Muzzle blinked at her. 

Before any cat could interrupt, she went on. “T 


spoke with the spirit-cats. They told me that each Clan 
should have a medicine cat to care for their sick. 
Dappled Pelt will be RiverClan’s medicine cat and 
Pebble Heart will be medicine cat for ShadowClan. 
I’m to be WindClan’s and Cloud Spots will be 
ThunderClan’s.” She paused. It wasn’t time yet to tell 
them about Micah. They needed to get used to the idea 
of medicine cats first. She dug her claws into the 
ground, bracing herself for the Clans’ reactions. 

Tall Shadow stepped forward. “Why would the 
spirit-cats tell you this? Why not tell us?” She glanced 
at Clear Sky and River Ripple. “We’re the Clan 
leaders.” 

“They said that they would speak through me from 
now on,” Moth Flight told her. 

Clear Sky spluttered. “You? You’re hardly more 
than a kit!” 

Moth Flight tried to ignore him, but her paws began 
to tremble. “They said they will send omens, and that I 
must tell Wind Runner what the omens mean.” She 
noticed Dappled Pelt staring at her, eyes bright with 
starlight. “I guess each medicine cat will see omens 
and interpret them for their leader.” That was what 


Half Moon had meant, surely? 

Wind Runner padded closer, her pelt rippling along 
her spine. “Moth Flight?” Her mew was gentle. “T 
know you think you’re doing the right thing. But is this 
just another one of your dreams?” 

“It’s real!” Moth Flight dug her claws harder into 
the cold earth. “I followed a tunnel into Highstones and 
I found a stone filled with moonlight and I saw the 
spirit-cats.” She knew she must sound crazy and she 
saw some of the Clan cat’s eyes soften into pity as she 
went on. I knew it! They don t believe me. 

Clear Sky sniffed. “You forgot to tell us who 
SkyClan’s medicine cat would be.” 

Moth Flight stared at him uncertainly, words frozen 
on her tongue. Was he taking her seriously? 

“The spirit-cats told you so much,’ Blossom 
yowled mockingly. “Did they forget to mention us?” 

“She’s making it up!” Mud Paws accused. 

“She just wants attention.” A ShadowClan 
tortoiseshell padded forward. 

Pebble Heart nosed past her. “Give her a chance, 
Juniper Branch!” He gazed softly at Moth Flight. “Do 
you know who SkyClan’s medicine cat will be?” 


Moth Flight glanced over her shoulder toward the 
bracken where Micah was hiding among the shadow 
stems. How would these cats react when she told 
them the spirit-cats had named a stranger? 

The bracken rustled and Micah pushed his way 
out. “They said that I would be SkyClan’s medicine 
cat,” he said. 

Shocked mews rose among the Clan cats. 

“Who’s he?” 

“He’s not one of us!” 

“Who said he could come here?” 

“This is Micah.” Moth Flight pressed her flank 
against Micah’s as he stopped beside her. “He saved 
me from a dog and came with me on my journey to 
Highstones.” 

River Ripple narrowed his eyes. “Did he see the 
spirit-cats too?” 

Moth Flight shook her head. “The moth led me to 
the cave, not him.” 

Wind Runner had stiffened. “Is this the moth 
you’re always dreaming about?” 

“Yes.” Moth Flight watched the cats exchange 
glances. Thunder stared at Micah through slitted eyes. 


Clear Sky’s pelt rippled uneasily along his spine. Tall 
Shadow was watching, her ears twitching. 
Helplessness swept over Moth Flight. How could she 
convince them? Only River Ripple looked calm. “I 
didn’t dream it!” she mewed desperately. “It was 
real.” 

“T saw the moth.” Micah lifted his chin. 

“You might just be saying that so you can be our 
medicine cat,’ Clear Sky growled. 

“The moth was real. It led us to Highstones.” He 
met Clear Sky’s gaze steadily. “I want to be your 
medicine cat, but I wouldn’t lie to you.” 

“What do you know about healing?” Clear Sky 
demanded. 

“Nothing, yet,” Micah told him calmly. “But I will 
learn.” 

“We’ll all learn!” Moth Flight added. “There are 
cats who already know healing herbs. If we can learn 
some, we can learn more! The Clans will depend on 
their medicine cats one day. Half Moon told me!” 

“Half Moon?” Clear Sky stiffened. 

Tall Shadow stepped closer. 

Dappled Pelt blinked. “You spoke with 


Stoneteller?” 

Quick Water hurried to Clear Sky’s side. “She 
must have seen Stoneteller,” the old mountain cat 
whispered. “How else would she know her name?” 

Clear Sky was still staring at Micah. “She probably 
heard Jagged Peak or Gray Wing talking about her.” 

Moth Flight heart’s leaped. They knew who Half 
Moon was! Were they going to believe her after all? 

Dappled Pelt’s eyes shone with excitement. “My 
dreams must have been a sign!” 

River Ripple looked at his Clanmate. “What 
dreams?” 

“Pve been dreaming about teaching cats about 
herbs and healing for the past moon,” Dappled Pelt 
told him. Her gaze flitted to Micah. “I think one of the 
cats in my dream might have been him.” 

“Why didn’t you say anything?” River Ripple 
asked quietly. “I thought they were just ordinary 
dreams,” Dappled Pelt answered. 

Clear Sky padded toward Micah, opening his 
mouth to taste his scent. “You smell strange.” 

“I smell like the farm I was raised on.” Micah 
stood still while Clear Sky circled him. 


Cloud Spots nosed his way to the front. “I’ve had a 
dream too,” he admitted. “I saw the moonlit stone.” 
He looked at Moth Flight. “Was it ina cave?” 

Moth Flight nodded, swallowing back excitement. 
“Inside Highstones.” 

“And there was a hole in the roof?” 

“You’ve seen it?” Moth Flight could hardly keep 
her paws still. 

“I dreamed I was there with you, Dappled Pelt, 
and Pebble Heart.” Cloud Spots nodded toward 
Micah. “And him.” 

Tall Shadow turned to Pebble Heart. “Have you 
had any dreams?” 

“Only last night.” His eyes glowed like stars. “I 
dreamed Turtle Tail was leaning over me. She said she 
always knew I was special.” 

Moth Flight’s tail quivered. “And she told you to 
take care of them all, didn’t she?” 

“Yes!” Pebble Heart blinked. “That’s exactly what 
she said!” 

Juniper Branch looked at Tall Shadow. “Are we 
actually going to believe this hare-brained WindClan 
cat?” 


Gorse Fur flicked his tail angrily. “She’s not hare- 
brained.” 

“So why does Spotted Fur always joke that one 
day she’ll find the end of a rainbow and try to climb up 
it?” Juniper Branch scoffed. 

“I was joking!” Spotted Fur caught Moth Flight’s 
eye apologetically. 

Fern Leaf brushed past him and stared at Moth 
Flight. “What if you’re wrong about this, Moth Flight? 
You might have misunderstood the  spirit-cats? 
message. You can’t even tell the difference between 
plants and prey.” 

Wind Runner faced the gray-and-white she-cat. 
“She can tell the difference. Perhaps she brings home 
plants because that’s what medicine cats do.” 

Moth Flight felt a rush of gratitude. She glanced at 
Micah. “I think they’re going to believe me,” she 
whispered. 

Clear Sky’s tail was still twitching impatiently. “So 
SkyClan is going to be stuck with an extra mouth to 
feed.” He glared at Micah resentfully. 

“I can hunt,” Micah told him. 

“Won’t you be too busy looking after sick cats?” 


Clear Sky sneered. 

Star Flower stood beside her mate. “Perhaps we 
should wait for the spirit-cats to tell us themselves 
before we start making any changes.” 

Juniper Branch and Swift Minnow murmured in 
agreement. 

“The spirit-cats have spoken to us before,” Tall 
Shadow reasoned. “If they’re not speaking to us now, 
it’s because they have nothing to say.” 

“But they do!” Alarm buzzed beneath Moth 
Flight’s pelt. You have to listen to me! What more 
could she say? She suddenly remembered Half Moon’s 
parting words. We will split the sky. And later, stars 
will rise. The spirit-cats had promised to send a sign 
when she told the Clans. 

Where was it? She stared up through the branches 
to the stars beyond. 

“What are you looking for?” Clear Sky asked her, 
his mew thick with scorn. “Do you think you can call 
them whenever you want?” 

Moth Flight blinked at him. “They promised to split 
the sky when I told you.” 

Clear Sky’s whiskers twitched with amusement. 


Purrs echoed around the clearing. 

“Split the sky?” Juniper Branch shook her head. 
“What nonsense!” 

Moth Flight squared her shoulders. “They said 
they’d split the sky and later stars would rise.” 

Clear Sky sat down. “Okay.” He looked up. “Let’s 
wait.” 

Silence gripped the clearmg. Above, the sky 
stretched cloudless and black. 

Moth Flight’s pelt burned with shame. Perhaps 1 
dreamed it after all! I’ve thought dreams were real 
before. Perhaps I’ve been wrong all along! 

She could feel the eyes of the Clan cats on her. 
“What have I done?” she whispered to Micah. “I’m 
such a rabbit-brain!” She shrank beneath her pelt. 

Suddenly, a flash lit the clearing. A bolt of lightning 
cracked the sky and, for a moment, the Clans were 
drenched in blinding white light. 

Terror ripped through Moth Flight. She dropped to 
the earth. 

On the far side of the hollow a tree exploded into 
flame as the lightning hit it. It shuddered and split. One 
half fell, blazing, to the ground. 


Moth Flight stared in amazement. They did it! 
They split the sky! Her heart leaped into her throat. 
They have to believe me now. She glanced around the 
clearing. 

The Clan cats gaped at the flaming tree. Then, one 
by one, they turned toward Moth Flight. 





CHAPTER 15 
+ 


The roar of the flames died away as the fire burned 
itself out. Moth Flight felt Micah shift beside her. The 
Clan cats stared at her in silence. 

She froze, her breath catching in her throat, when 
River Ripple padded forward and dipped his head low. 
“Moth Flight, you were brave to speak up. Come with 
me.” He headed for the huge stone that rose from the 
soil as though it had been growing for countless moons 
from the heart of the earth. 

Moth Flight glanced nervously at Micah as River 
Ripple leaped onto the great rock. 

“Go on.” He nudged her forward with a flick of his 
muzzle. “You’ve done the hardest part.” 

Self-consciously, Moth Flight padded into the 
shadow of the rock and scrabbled onto a ledge, then 
leaped into the moonlight. She landed beside River 
Ripple, who was gazing at the Clan cats below. 

She peered over the edge. What a long way down! 
Her Clanmates seemed suddenly small. Moth Flight 
glanced at the sky. A thick band of stars stretched like 


a silver pelt across the indigo blackness. Was that 
where the spirit-cats lived? A star Clan? She 
remembered their star-flecked pelts, glittermg in the 
darkness of the cave. How small the Clans must look 
to the spirit-cats. They were so powerful they could 
command lightning! And yet they cared about these 
cats, enough to watch over them and guide them. 

“There can be no disagreement now.” River 
Ripple’s mew jerked her back into the moment. The 
Clan cats were watching her expectantly. 

Thunder lifted his tail, his orange pelt pale in the 
moonlight. “The spirit-cats have spoken. Each Clan 
will have a medicine cat.” 

Quick Water called from among the SkyClan cats. 
“If we’d had medicine cats earlier, the sickness might 
not have taken so many.” 

Moth Flight shook her head. “We don’t know any 
more now than we did then,” she pointed out. “We 
can’t change the past. But we can change the future. 
Somehow we must discover new herbs and new 
cures.” 

“How?” Pebble Heart looked up at her. “Tt will 
take moons to test out every plant.” 


“Yes,” Moth Flight agreed. “In the meantime, we 
can learn from each other. Each Clan has cats who 
know a little about healing.” 

Swift Minnow lifted her muzzle. “Reed Tail knows 
plenty.” She glanced proudly at her mate. 

The silver tabby dipped his head modestly. “I am 
happy to share the little I know with Moth Flight.” 

“And PIl share whatever you teach me with the 
other medicine cats.” Moth Flight nodded to Pebble 
Heart. “Will you learn all you can from the cats in 
ShadowClan?” 

Pebble Heart nodded. 

Cloud Spots whisked his tail. “I will gather all the 
knowledge in ThunderClan.” 

“The medicine cats are to meet at Highstones 
every half-moon,” Moth Flight told them. 

Dappled Pelt blinked. “That’s a long way to 
travel!” 

Moth Flight met her wide-eyed gaze. “Once you 
have seen the moonlit stone for real, yov’ ll be glad you 
made the journey.” She suddenly realized that she was 
addressing the Clan like a leader. She backed away 
from the edge, butterflies rising in her belly once more. 


“Don’t be afraid,” River Ripple whispered in her 
ear. “The spirit-cats chose you. This is your destiny.” 

She stared at the mysterious RiverClan leader, 
wondering if the star Clan ever shared with him. He 
seemed so wise. 

An angry mew rang in the clearing. 

Moth Flight stiffened as Clear Sky glared up at her. 
“You talk as though everything has been decided.” He 
fluffed out his pelt. “We shouldn’t have to take 
medicine cats who have been chosen for us! We 
should decide our Clan’s future for ourselves!” 

Moth Flight forced herself to meet his gaze. “We 
can’t ignore the spirit-cats.” 

“You must have misinterpreted what they told 
you!” Clear Sky was eyeing Micah. “Why would they 
choose a stranger for SkyClan?” 

“Are you saying she’s a liar?” Wind Runner turned 
on Clear Sky, hackles up. 

Clear Sky held his ground. “I’m just saying she 
might be mistaken.” 

“If she were mistaken, would the spirit-cats have 
sent a sign?” Wind Runner snapped. “Micah is your 
medicine cat! Stop complaining!” 


Clear Sky’s gaze flashed with fury. “That’s easy 
for you to say. You don’t have to take in a rogue.” 

Wind Runner’s tail twitched irritably. “You’ve 
taken in plenty of rogues before, Clear Sky. You just 
don’t like being told what to do.” 

Clear Sky glared at the WindClan leader. “Neither 
do you.” 

“At least if I’m wrong, I'll admit it,” Wind Runner 
flashed back. 

“Im never wrong!” Clear Sky’s ears twitched. 

Moth Flight felt a sudden rush of pity for Micah. 
What if Clear Sky did agree to take him? The SkyClan 
leader had never let any cat tell him what to do. The 
spirit-cats wanted the medicine cats to advise their 
leaders. How could Micah advise Clear Sky if he 
wouldn’t listen? She glanced at Micah, who watched 
silently, moonlight silvering his pelt. His gaze seemed 
so sure and steady. He "Il find a way. 

She stepped to the front of the great rock once 
more. “Micah may be a stranger to the Clans, but he 
shares a bond with us. He always has.” 

Clear Sky lifted his muzzle to stare at her. “What?” 

Mews of surprise rippled around the cats. Micah 


stiffened as they stared at him, their gazes sharp with 
curiosity. 

“Tell them, Micah,” Moth Flight encouraged. 

Micah’s tail quivered. “I’ve dreamed of you.” He 
nodded toward Clear Sky. “I dreamed I was bringing 
you catmint to treat a sick kit.” 

Star Flower pricked her ears. “What’s catmint?” 

“It’s an herb that grows on the farm,” Micah told 
her. “We use it to treat coughs.” 

Star Flower turned to Clear Sky, her purple gaze 
glittering. “He could help Tiny Branch!” 

Clear Sky’s fur lifted along his spine. He looked 
uneasily from Star Flower to Micah. “Can you get 
some of this catmint?” 

“Of course.” Micah tipped his head to one side. 
“Who is Tiny Branch?” 

Clear Sky narrowed his eyes. “He’s my kit.” 

Micah lifted his tail. Moth Flight could see he was 
excited. He was clearly keen to start work. 

River Ripple moved beside Moth Flight. “Are we 
all agreed?” he called to the cats below. His gaze fixed 
on Clear Sky. 

Clear Sky hesitated. “Are you sure this catmint will 


help?” he asked Micah. 

“It helped me when I was a kit.” 

“We have to try it!” Star Flower urged. 

“Okay.” Clear Sky dipped his head. “If you can 
heal Tiny Branch, you can stay with SkyClan.” 

Tall Shadow lifted her muzzle. “From now on, 
Pebble Heart will be ShadowClan’s medicine cat.” 

“And Cloud Spots will be ThunderClan’s,” Thunder 
agreed. 

“Dappled Pelt will be medicine cat for RiverClan.” 
River Ripple sat down and tucked his tail over his 
paws. 

Moth Flight looked toward Wind Runner. She met 
her mother’s gaze, surprised at its warmth. 

“Moth Flight will be medicine cat for WindClan.” 

Her heart swelled with pride and joy as her mother 
spoke. Quickly, she slithered down the side of the rock 
and leaped to the ground. She hurried toward Wind 
Runner. “I’m sorry I scared you,” she blurted as she 
reached her. 

Wind Runner touched her nose gently to Moth 
Flight’s cheek. “I understand now why you went.” She 
pulled back, meeting Moth Flight’s gaze. “I’m sorry I 


was so hard on you. Gorse Fur was right. You are 
special. I’ve been rabbit-brained not to see it.” 

Gorse Fur reached them, Dust Muzzle at his heels. 
“I’m so proud of you!” His eyes shone as he looked at 
Moth Flight. 

She purred loudly, hesitating as memories of 
Emberkit and Morning Whisker flashed in her 
thoughts. “I saw my littermates,’ she told Wind 
Runner. “They were with the spirit-cats and they 
spoke to me.” 

Wind Runner’s eyes glistened with emotion. “Are 
they okay?” Her mew caught in her throat. 

“They are still kits,” Moth Flight told her. “But they 
look well and happy, and they have grown wise.” 

Wind Runner jerked her muzzle toward Gorse Fur. 
“They are happy.” The words were no more than a 
breath but they were filled with joy. 

Gorse Fur pressed his cheek against his mate’s. 
“They will always be safe,” he murmured. 

The ShadowClan cats were starting to climb the 
slope toward the pine forest. Thunder was leading his 
cats away through the trees. 

“We should go too.” Wind Runner signaled to her 


cats with a flick of her tail and began to head for the 
moor. 

Clear Sky and Star Flower led SkyClan into the 
brambles as RiverClan disappeared into the long grass 
that reached toward the reed beds. 

Dust Muzzle nudged Moth Flight’s shoulder. “Are 
you coming?” 

Moth Flight scanned the empty clearing, relieved to 
see Micah hanging back at the bottom of the slope. 
“T'I catch up with you,” she told Dust Muzzle. 

Her brother glanced quizzically at Micah, then 
headed after their Clan. 

Moth Flight hurried toward Micah. “We did it!” she 
mewed excitedly. 

Sadness clouded his gaze. 

“What’s wrong?” Wasn’t he happy that they’d 
convinced the Clans? 

“T’m going to miss you,” he mewed softly. 

Her heart quickened. She’d forgotten! He was 
going to live in SkyClan’s camp. They’d only been 
together a few days, yet leaving without him seemed 
strange. ‘TIl miss you too.” 

He leaned forward and touched his muzzle to hers. 


“TPI see you at half-moon.” 

“We can travel to the Moonstone together,’ Moth 
Flight murmured. 

Eyes flashed from the top of the slope. “Micah! 
Hurry up!” Clear Sky’s mew rang around the hollow. 

“Pd better go.” Micah headed for the 
undergrowth. “I don’t want to start off on the wrong 
paw.” 

Moth Flight watched him disappear. The pricking 
sadness in her heart was suddenly swept away by 
excitement. She’d changed the future of the Clans! 
Nothing would ever be the same again. She glanced up 
at the sky, wondering if Half Moon was proud of her. 

Green wings flitted in the moonlight overhead. 

The moth! 

It fluttered toward her, dancing closer until it 
settled on her muzzle. Her whiskers twitched as it 
tickled her nose. Her breath stirred its wings, then the 
moth swooped away, circling higher and higher until it 
was lost among the oak branches. 

Had it come to say good-bye? 

Thank you! Moth Flight heard the bracken rustle 
at the top of the slope. Her Clan was heading onto the 


moor. She hurried after them, pushing through the stiff 
stems. Her life was going to be different now. Her 
heart quickened. Half Moon, she whispered into the 
chilly night air. Help me be strong enough to fulfill 
my destiny. 





CHAPTER 16 
+ 


“Moth Flight, look at me!” 

Silver Stripes mew sounded behind her. Shaking 
leaf crumbs from her paws, Moth Flight turned 
impatiently to watch the pale gray she-kit. 

Silver Stripe was wedged into the prickly gorse 
halfway up the wall of her den. Black Ear was tugging 
at his sister’s tail, while White Tail was trying to climb 
up beside her. 

“Please, get down!” Moth Flight marched across 
the freshly dug floor of her den and snatched Silver 
Stripe’s scruff in her teeth. 

It was Wind Runner who had suggested hollowing 
out a den especially for Moth Flight. Storm Pelt, Reed 
Tail, Fern Leaf, Holly, and Dew Nose had spent days 
digging out a dip beneath the stems and tearing away 
branches to shape a cave in the heart of the thickest 
part of the gorse wall. The floor was wide enough for 
three nests. One for herself, and two for any sick cats 
who might need to be watched. The branches would 
make a great place to store the plants she collected. 


She could slot her herbs among the spiny stems and 
keep them sheltered from the weather. 

Moth Flight dropped the kit on the ground. “If you 
want to climb, go outside.” 

Silver Stripe blinked at her. “But Slate told us to 
stay with you.” 

Moth Flight glanced back at the piles of leaves 
she’d collected. She was hoping to sort them and store 
them among the gorse stems at the back of her den 
before sunhigh. 

Black Ear followed her gaze and hurried toward 
the piles. He began sniffing them, sneezing as he 
reached a pungent heap and scattering leaves across 
the floor of the den. “Sorry!” 

Moth Flight swallowed back frustration. J have to 
tell Slate that she needs to find another cat to 
watch her kits now that I’m a medicine cat. Moth 
Flight loved the kits, but she had new responsibilities 
now. 

In the days since the full-moon Gathering, she’d 
gradually become used to the strange new way her 
Clanmates treated her. When she disappeared into 
thought, Swift Minnow no longer teased her. When she 


brought plants back to camp, Wind Runner was the 
first to ask her if she’d found something interesting. 
Jagged Peak nodded a respectful greeting whenever 
she passed him. Only Slate didn’t seem to have noticed 
the change, still lost in her grief for Gray Wing. 

The entrance rustled as Reed Tail poked his head 
in. “Do you need any help?” 

“Can you look after these three?” Moth Flight 
grabbed Black Ear’s tail and hauled him away from 
the herbs. 

“Swift Minnow’s just back from hunting,’ Reed 
Tail told her. “I'll see if she can watch them.” 

White Tail frowned. “But we want to stay in Moth 
Flight’s cave!” 

“Kits need fresh air and sunshine.” Reed Tail slid 
into the den and nosed the gray-and-white tom-kit 
toward the entrance. 

“Wait!” Black Ear was sniffing the herb piles 
again. “What’s this?” He wrinkled his nose at a lush 
green leaf. 

Moth Flight’s ears twitched. “Horsetail.” I think. 
She was having trouble remembering all the names. 

Silver Stripe pushed past her brother and sniffed it. 


“What's it for?” 

Moth Flight frowned. “It cures twisted tails,” she 
guessed. 

Reed Tail blinked at her sympathetically. “It’s 
chervil and it’s good for bellyache.” He padded past 
Silver Stripe and hooked a leaf with his claw. “But the 
root is better than the leaves. They aren’t really strong 
enough.” 

Moth Flight’s pelt grew hot. “Of course!” She 
remembered now. Reed Tail had told her yesterday 
when he’d taken her out collecting herbs. Why 
couldn’t she remember the simplest things? 

White Tail stared at her with wide eyes. “I thought 
you were our medicine cat?” 

“Maybe Reed Tail should be the medicine cat,” 
Silver Stripe suggested. 

Moth Flight shifted her paws uneasily. Perhaps the 
kit was right. How was she ever going to learn 
everything she’d need to know? She wondered for a 
moment if the spirit-cats had made a mistake choosing 
her. I’m too featherbrained. 

Reed Tail shooed White Tail toward the entrance 
and nudged Silver Stripe and Black Ear after them. 


“Go and find Swift Minnow. Tell her I sent you.” 

“IPs not fair,” Silver Stripe complained. 

“We were only helping,” added Black Ear. 

As the kits disappeared, grumbling, from the cave, 
Moth Flight looked gratefully at Reed Tail. “You know 
so much more than me about herbs and healing. 
Perhaps they’re right. Perhaps you should be 
WindClan’s medicine cat.” 

Reed Tail gazed at her fondly. “The spirit-cats 
chose you for a reason. I think they wanted someone 
who could do more than remember herbs.” 

“Like what?” Moth Flight felt lost. She was up to 
her ears in plants and names and had no idea how 
she’d ever know the right herb in an emergency. What 
if a Clanmate died because she couldn’t remember? 
Panic sparked in her paws. 

“You’ve only just begun,” Reed Tail told her softly. 

Outside, Holly’s yowl rang across the clearing. 
“Where do you three think you’re going?” 

“The kits!” Reed Tail headed for the entrance. 
“They’re probably trying to sneak out of camp again.” 
The gorse swished as he squeezed out of the den. 

Moth Flight looked back at her herb piles, and 


began pushing the scattered leaves back together. 

A cough sounded outside. 

Rocky. 

The old tom had been coughing for a few days. 
Moth Flight glanced at the empty nest at the side of the 
den, freshly woven from heather by Storm Pelt and 
Eagle Feather. It would be cozier than Rocky’s nest in 
the long grass. Even though newleaf was warming the 
moor, the nights were still chilly and the wind 
relentless. Perhaps a few nights’ sleep in the shelter of 
her den was all Rocky needed to recover. She hoped 
so; the tansy she’d given him last night clearly hadn’t 
worked and she didn’t know any other herb that might 
cure him. 

“Rocky!” Moth Flight slid out of her den and 
crossed the clearing. 

Rocky was weaving slowly among the tussocks, 
heading for the prey pile. He paused as she stopped 
beside him. 

“How are you feeling?” 

“Not bad. I thought I might feel better if I had 
something to eat—” Rocky broke off, coughing. His 
shaggy shoulders heaved with the effort. Struggling to 


catch his breath, he looked at her, his gaze clouded 
with exhaustion. 

Moth Flight pushed away worry. She must focus 
on curing Rocky; fretting wouldn’t help. Her thoughts 
quickened. He’d been heading for food. A hungry cat 
is a healthy cat. Her mother used to say that when 
she returned home with prey for Moth Flight and Dust 
Muzzle. “Are you hungry?” 

“Not really.” Rocky shrugged. “I just thought a 
small bite of shrew might help.” He gazed at her 
bleakly. 

“I think you'd better move into my den,” Moth 
Flight mewed briskly. “There’s a nice, clean nest for 
you and it'll be warm.” And I can keep an eye on 
you. His lack of appetite worried her. Perhaps I need 
to give him more tansy. She wished Dappled Pelt 
were here. Or Pebble Heart. They might know what 
to do. / bet even Micah knows more than me. As she 
steered Rocky gently toward her den, she thought of 
the yellow tom. Her pelt prickled with warmth. She’d 
be seeing him before long, at the half-moon gathering 
at Highstones. She paused and waited for Rocky to 
squeeze into her den. Following, she pointed her 


muzzle to the heather nest. “Rest there while I fetch 
you more tansy.” 

As Rocky climbed in and began to knead the 
heather, Moth Flight turned toward her herbs. Perhaps 
I gave him the wrong one. She sniffed at the curly 
green leaves she’d shredded for him last night. It was 
definitely tansy. She felt sure. She grabbed a bunch 
between her jaws and crossed the den. Dropping it on 
the edge of Rocky’s nest, she leaned close and felt 
heat pulsmg from his pelt. He has a fever. “Eat 
these.” She pushed the tansy closer and headed back 
to her herbs. Frustration tightened her belly. She knew 
there must be something here to help his fever, but 
what? 

Rocky lapped at the leaves, swallowing, then 
coughing harder than ever. 

Moth Flight stared at him anxiously. The tansy 
wasn’t helping! 

Catmint. The name flashed in her mind. Micah had 
mentioned it! He’d said it would help Tiny Branch’s 
cough! It looks a bit like nettles but the leaves are 
smaller and they dont sting. You’ll know if you 
ever see some. It smells great. He'd said it grew by 


the Twoleg barn. Rocky began to wheeze. The farm 
was too far to travel. She needed to find some quickly. 
Would there be any around the Twoleg nests beyond 
the forest? 

“Try to rest,’ she told Rocky. “I’m going to hunt 
for herbs.” She watched the old tom settle stiffly into 
his nest. His pelt was clumped and his gaze dull. J wish 
I knew how to make him feel better. “Shall I fetch 
you something from the prey pile before I go?” 

Rocky grunted. “I don’t think I can swallow.” 

“Ts your throat sore?” 

“Like I swallowed hot nettles.” Rocky laid his 
muzzle on the edge of his nest and shook as he fought 
back a cough. 

“I won't be long!” Moth Flight raced from her den. 
She’d be lucky if she made it to Twolegplace before 
sunhigh. She bounded over the tussocky clearing. 

“Moth Flight!” Dust Muzzle called from rocks near 
the entrance. He was chewing on a vole. Spotted Fur 
lay beside him, washing his face. 

She slewed to a halt. “What?” 

“Where are you going?” Dust Muzzle padded 
toward her. 


“T need to find catmint.” 

“For Rocky?” Dust Muzzle looked toward her den. 
“I saw you take him to your den.” 

“Tt will help his cough,” Moth Flight explained. 

Spotted Fur crossed the grass toward them. 
“Where are you going to look?” 

“Twolegplace,” Moth Flight told him. 

An excited squeak sounded from behind the rocks 
and Black Ear scrambled onto the highest stone. “Can 
we come?” 

Moth Flight blinked at him. “No! It’s too far.” 

“But I’m bored,” the kit complained. 

Reed Tail stuck his head up from behind the rocks 
and nudged the kit with his muzzle. “I’ll take you out 
on the moor when Slate wakes up,” he promised. 

Moth Flight blinked at him. “Was Swift Minnow 
busy?” 

“She was tired from hunting,” Reed Tail told her. 
“She said a tom was as good as a—” 

Black Ear interrupted. “Perhaps Slate will come 
with us!” 

“No way. She’s always too tired.” Silver Stripe 
scrambled up beside her brother. “Can we hunt on the 


moor?” 

“Teach us some hunting moves!” White Tail leaped 
onto the rock. “I want to catch a rabbit.” 

“They’re bigger than you!” Reed Tail teased. 

“Reed Tail!” Holly called from the prey pile. 
“There are three fat mice here. Do you know any cat 
who might want one?” 

“Me!” Silver Stripe leaped from the rock and 
began scrambling over the tussocks. 

“I want the fattest one!” Black Ear chased after 
his sister. 

“You are the fattest one!” White Tail hared after 
them. 

Reed Tail glanced at Moth Flight. “I hope Slate 
says it’s okay to take them out of camp. They have 
more energy than a nest of squirrels.” 

Moth Flight watched him trudge after the kits, 
grateful that he’d taken them off her paws. She turned 
back to Spotted Fur. The tom’s amber gaze clouded 
with worry. 

“Twolegplace is a long way. You'll have to cross 
Clear Sky’s forest.” 

“TI be okay,” Moth Flight reassured him. “Clear 


Sky doesn’t mind cats crossing his borders anymore. 
Besides, I’m a medicine cat now. I’m only hunting for 
herbs.” 

Dust Muzzle frowned. “What if you run into 
rogues in Twolegplace?” 

“And there are Thunderpaths,” Spotted Fur added 
anxiously. 

“We’d better come with you.” Dust Muzzle shook 
out his pelt. 

Moth Flight blinked at him. “Aren’t you supposed 
to be hunting today?” 

Spotted Fur paced around her. “We can hunt on 
the way back.” 

Moth Flight wondered if she’d travel faster alone, 
but it made sense to take help. When she reached 
Twolegplace, she’d have to sniff out catmint, and three 
noses would be better than one. “Okay!” She whisked 
her tail. “Thanks.” Heading for the entrance, she broke 
into a run. 

As she burst out of camp, relishing the fresh 
breeze that streamed through her whiskers, heather 
scent filled her nose. Happiness surged beneath Moth 
Flight’s pelt as she raced downslope. She would find 


catmint and cure Rocky! She pushed harder against 
the grass. Paw steps thumped behind her as Spotted 
Fur and Dust Muzzle caught up. 

“Slow down!” Dust Muzzle called. “You can’t run 
all the way!” 

“We’ll have to walk in the forest.” Moth Flight 
kept her gaze fixed ahead. The roots and brambles 
under the trees would slow them down. They might as 
well make good time here, where they knew the 
terrain well. She ducked into a swath of heather, 
heading down a rabbit trail she’d followed countless 
times before. 

Racing out the other side of the heather, she 
headed for the forest, Dust Muzzle and Spotted Fur 
following her. 

They crossed the border gingerly, exchanging 
glances. The whole Clan told tales of the days when 
Clear Sky had challenged any cat he’d found in his 
forest. We’ll be fine. Moth Flight lifted her chin. Since 
the great battle, cats had crossed each other’s territory 
freely, but it was understood that no cat would hunt on 
another cat’s land. We’re not hunting. As the trees 
blocked the sun’s warmth, she shivered. What if a 


SkyClan cat challenged them the same way Willow 
Tail had challenged Red Claw about his “theft”? She 
pushed the thought away. Rocky needed catmint. 

Dust Muzzle was starmg between the towering 
trunks, eyes wide as he adjusted to the gloom. 
“SkyClan cats must have eyes like owls.” 

Birdsong echoed eerily from the tree trunks, closed 
in by the canopy of branches. Sunshine filtered through 
the bright new leaves and dappled the forest floor. 
Brambles spilled from between the trees, and ferns 
unfurled in wide clumps. 

Moth Flight tasted the air. The musty flavor of old 
leaves and damp wood bathed her tongue. “Don’t 
SkyClan and ThunderClan miss the sunshine?” she 
whispered. 

“They must.” Spotted Fur fluffed out his pelt. “It’s 
weird not hearing the wind.” 

Moth Flight realized that the pressing hum in her 
ears was the sound of stillness. High overhead the 
leaves swished, but down here, among the roots, no 
breeze stirred. 

“This way.” Dust Muzzle padded forward, heading 
up a rise where the forest sloped toward a small 


clearing and sunlight broke through the canopy. 

Tiny paws scuttled across the leaves to one side. 
Spotted Fur jerked his head around. 

“Ignore it,” Dust Muzzle warned. “We can catch 
bigger prey when we’re back on the moor.” 

Spotted Fur huffed and followed Dust Muzzle as 
he jumped over a fallen log. Moth Flight scrambled 
behind them, yelping as a bramble snagged her paw. 

Dust Muzzle glanced back. “Are you okay?” 

“Yes.” Moth Flight tugged herself free, wincing. 
“How do they hunt here?” 

Spotted Fur shrugged. “Perhaps they wait for their 
prey to trip.” 

At the top of the rise, Moth Flight relished the 
warmth of the sun for a moment before shadow 
swallowed it again. “Do you know which way to go?” 
she called to Dust Muzzle, who had pulled into the 
lead. He was following a trail smoothed by rabbit 
tracks, by the smell of them. 

“T’m trying to find the Thunderpath,” he answered. 

Spotted Fur fell in beside her. “It runs between 
SkyClan and ShadowClan territory.” 

Dust Muzzle glanced over his shoulder. “And it 


leads straight to Twolegplace.” 

Moth Flight shuddered. “I don’t want to follow a 
Thunderpath. It stinks.” 

“Do you want to get lost among these trees?” Dust 
Muzzle argued. 

“Can’t we just head away from the sun?” Moth 
Flight reasoned. 

“We could if we could see it.” Dust Muzzle veered 
from the trail as brambles cut across it. 

Spotted Fur paused. “Is that a gap in the trees over 
there?” He pointed his nose toward a lighter stretch of 
forest. 

Dust Muzzle headed toward tt. 

Moth Flight padded beside Spotted Fur, her nose 
twitching as the sour scent of monsters touched it. She 
could see light spilling between the trunks. They 
cleared another log, leaped a ditch, and climbed 
another rise. Ahead, the trees opened onto a wide gap 
that cut through the forest like a claw mark. Black 
stone lined the gash, stinking of Twoleg stench and, on 
the far side, the trees turned from oak to pine. 

Moth Flight felt dizzy from the scents washing over 
her. The sharp tang of pinesap and monsters made her 


queasy. “Let’s stay in the trees,” she begged. 

“Tell be easier to walk along the verge.” Dust 
Muzzle headed out onto the grass. 

Spotted Fur followed. “Tt’s sunny here.” 

Moth Flight peered at the black stone as a monster 
howled past. Dust Muzzle hardly flinched. Spotted Fur 
only narrowed his eyes against the stinking wind that 
billowed in its wake. 

Moth Flight ducked back among the trees. She 
could still remember Gorse Fur’s close brush with 
death. “I’m staying here.” 

“Walk where I can see you!” Dust Muzzle trekked 
along the grass verge, keeping pace with her as she 
pushed through a clump of bracken. 

‘T'I keep an eye on her.” Spotted Fur bounded into 
the forest and fell in beside Moth Flight. 

“You can walk with Dust Muzzle,” she told him. 
“Im okay by myself.” 

“Pd rather walk with you.” 

She ignored the meaningful glance he gave her and 
wondered if Micah was nearby. Had the farm cat 
explored this part of the forest yet, or had Clear Sky 
been keeping him busy in camp? 


She opened her mouth, tasting the air for a trace of 
his scent. But the stench of the Thunderpath drowned 
out any other smell. Tail drooping, she padded on, 
scanning the trees ahead for some sign of Twoleg 
nests beyond. 

The forest grew warm as the sun climbed higher, 
until Dust Muzzle called from the verge. “I can see 
Twolegplace!” 

Moth Flight’s heart lifted. “Is it far?” 

“No!” 

She quickened her pace, Spotted Fur breaking into 
a trot beside her. Picking her way past a bramble 
patch, she scanned the trees ahead. Sharp-cornered 
walls showed behind the trunks. 

She broke into a run as she reached the edge of 
the woods. Dust Muzzle left the verge and hurried to 
catch up with her as she zigzagged through the 
undergrowth until she reached a sheer wooden wall. 
She stopped at the bottom, judging the height. Taking a 
breath, she leaped. She hooked her claws into the 
rough wood and scrambled like a squirrel to the top. 
Balancing on the narrow ridge, she gazed across the 
jumble of Twoleg nests and patches of grass, 


crisscrossed by a maze of wooden walls. The ridge 
wobbled as Dust Muzzle and Spotted Fur jumped up 
beside her. 

“We should split up,” Moth Flight told them. 

Dust Muzzle narrowed his eyes as he scanned the 
nests. “We don’t know what we’re looking for.” 

“Micah says catmint looks like nettles,’ Moth 
Flight told him. “Its leaves are smaller and don’t sting. 
He said that it smells so great, you'll know if you find 
it.” 

Spotted Fur’s pelt ruffled. “Does Micah know 
every herb?” There was an edge in his mew. 

“Just catmint.” Moth Flight gazed down into the 
grassy clearing below. Unusual plants crowded the 
edge. She opened her mouth and let their scent touch 
her tongue. Nothing smelled great. She nodded toward 
the wooden walls farther along. “You search there, I'll 
head the other way,” she told Dust Muzzle. 

“T’m sticking with you,” Spotted Fur told her. 

Moth Flight dug her claws into the ridge. “We’ll 
find it quicker if we split up.” Spotted Fur was nice but 
she didn’t want him breathing on her tail everywhere 
she went. 


Dust Muzzle whisked his tail, wobbling as he 
turned on the wall. “Call if you need help,” he told her, 
picking his way along it. “We won’t be far away.” 

Spotted Fur caught Moth Flight’s eye. “Are you 
sure you don’t want me to go with you?” he asked 
hopefully. 

“Dust Muzzle will need help searching for herbs. 
He’s used to hunting rabbits.” Moth Flight turned her 
tail on him and headed in the opposite direction. 

The wall trembled beneath her and she had to 
concentrate to keep her balance. In the next clearing 
between the walls she saw huge white-plumed grasses 
towering around a patch of grass. The clearing beyond 
was covered with stone. She sniffed the air as she 
reached the next one, relieved to see countless plants 
crammed between the wooden walls. Excited, she 
jumped down among them and began snuffling through 
the leaves. 

Like nettles. Micah’s words rang in her mind. If 
only she’d met him in the woods; he could have helped 
her find it. She paused. A wonderful scent was filling 
her nose. She blinked, gazing around. 

There! A leafy plant, just like Micah had described, 


was crammed between a flowering shrub and a spiky 
grass. She hurried toward it, her pelt pricking as its 
scent reached inside her. Excitement flared in her 
belly. She stopped beside it and plunged her muzzle 
deep into the plant, dizzy as she breathed in the 
mouthwatering smell. It was just like Micah had said. 
You "Il know it when you find it! 

She grabbed a clump of stems between her teeth 
and ripped them away from the plant. Laying them at 
her paws, she grabbed another mouthful, tearing away 
as much as she could. Delighted, she patted the broken 
stems into a tight bunch and bent to pick them up. 
Thanks, Micah. 

She paused, remembering their journey to 
Highstones. It was still so vivid in her mind: the sun 
setting behind the stones; the meal Micah had caught 
for her before she’d gone into the tunnel. She’d been 
so nervous, and he’d been so reassuring. That had 
been the best night of her life. She suddenly tasted the 
scent of damp stone and imagined the spirit-cats 
shimmering into view around her. Joy warmed her 
belly as she pictured how kindly they’d greeted her. 
You 're special— 


A loud yelp broke into her thoughts. She jerked her 
muzzle around. A Twoleg burst from its nest and raced 
toward her. It was barking like an angry dog. 

Moth Flight’s heart seemed to burst. Blind with 
panic, she snatched up the catmint between her jaws 
and hared for the wooden wall. Twoleg paws grabbed 
for her, their clammy flesh pulling her fur as she 
twisted free. A growl rumbling in her throat, she leaped 
up the wall and clung to the top. The Twoleg was 
yowling in rage, its red face only a tail-length away. 

Fighting terror, Moth Flight leaped along the 
wooden ridge, her claws stretched as it wobbled 
beneath her. In a moment, she was beyond the 
Twoleg’s reach. Another wall blocked its way, and it 
was clearly too clumsy to climb over. She slowed, 
finding her balance and made her way shakily back 
toward Dust Muzzle. 

Her brother was already hurrying toward her, his 
pelt bushed, his gaze flashing toward the barking 
Twoleg. “Did it hurt you?” 

Moth Flight’s mouth was too full to speak. Instead 
she jumped down into the forest. She spat out the 
catmint and sucked in a deep breath. 


Dust Muzzle landed beside her, darting around her 
anxiously. “Are you okay?” 

“Just scared!” she panted. “I didn’t see it coming 
until too late.” 

Spotted Fur scrambled down the wall. “What 
happened?” 

Dust Muzzle rolled his eyes. “My dreamy sister 
nearly got caught by a Twoleg.” 

Moth Flight glared at him furiously. “I can’t help 
being dreamy!” she hissed. Be yourself. Half Moon’s 
words flashed in her mind. “It’s just the way I am.” 

“One day it’s going to get you into trouble,” Dust 
Muzzle fretted. 

“I escaped, didn’t I?” Moth Flight lashed her tail. 
“And don t tell Wind Runner! She”Il just worry about 
me!” 

Spotted Fur nosed between them and sniffed the 
catmint. “It does smell good!” A purr rumbled in his 
throat. “Can I chew some?” He was already rubbing 
his cheek against the stems. 

Moth Flight nosed him away sharply. “That’s 
medicine for Rocky!” she snapped, still angry with her 
brother. “He doesn’t want your drool all over it.” She 


snatched up the stems and marched back into the 
forest. 

Paws aching from the journey home, Moth Flight 
left Dust Muzzle and Spotted Fur to hunt on the moor 
and hurried back to camp. Holding her head high so 
she didn’t trip over the stems, she scrabbled over the 
tussocky clearing and headed for her den. 

Jagged Peak looked up as she passed. “That 
smells mouthwatering!” 

She dipped her head to him, unable to answer. 

Storm Pelt and Eagle Feather fell in beside her, 
leaning close to sniff the leaves. 

“What’s that?” A purr rumbled in Storm Pelt’s 
throat. 

“Ts it for Rocky?” Eagle Feather asked. 

Moth Flight dropped the stems at the entrance to 
her den. The heady scent clouded her thoughts and she 
shook out her pelt, hoping to clear them. “It’s catmint,” 
she told them. 

Eagle Feather was crouching, sniffing at the 
leaves. “Where did you find it?” 

“Twolegplace.” Moth Flight could hear Rocky 
coughing inside her den. 


“It's a shame it doesn’t grow on the moor.” Storm 
Pelt’s blue eyes shone. “It smells great.” 

“It’s for curing coughs.” Moth Flight shooed Eagle 
Feather away with a flick of her tail. “It’s precious.” 
She glanced toward the sandy dip beside the big stone. 
Sunlight pooled at the bottom. If she dried the leaves, 
they wouldn’t rot. She hooked two stems from the pile 
and pushed the rest toward Storm Pelt. “Will you 
spread these in the hollow so that they dry?” She 
glanced around. Swift Minnow and Reed Tail were 
lounging in the late-afternoon sunshine at the edge of 
the camp. Slate sat blinking at the entrance to her den 
while Silver Stripe, Black Ear, and White Tail skittered 
around her, chasing one another’s tails. Wind Runner 
stretched beside the big stone, her belly turned toward 
the sun and her eyes closed. Moth Flight blinked at 
Storm Pelt. “Sit and guard them while they dry,” she 
ordered. “I don’t want everyone in camp sniffing the 
leaves. They’re for sick cats.” She wouldn’t blame 
her Clanmates for wanting to taste the tempting 
leaves. She’d wanted to try one herself, but she 
worried that, if cats ate catmint while they were 
healthy, it might not work when they were ill. Besides, 


she didn’t want to travel to Twolegplace every few 
days to fetch more! 

Storm Pelt nodded, grabbing the stems between his 
jaws. Eagle Feather followed eagerly as he hopped 
into the hollow and began spreading them over the 
sandy earth. 

Moth Flight ducked into her den. She laid the stems 
beside Rocky’s nest. Heat was still pulsing from his 
damp pelt. 

“Rocky?” She touched him gently with a paw and 
he blinked his eyes open. “How are you feeling?” 

He coughed in reply. 

‘Tve brought you something that might help.” 
Moth Flight tore off a leaf with a claw and placed it 
beside Rocky’s muzzle. “Eat this.” 

Rocky sniffed the catmint, his eyes brightening. “It 
smells nice!” He blinked at her gratefully and lapped 
up the leaf. 

She tore off a few more, dropping them beside 
him. He lapped them up as quickly as she could shred 
them, until both stems were plucked clean. Was that 
enough? She leaned closer, wondering how long the 
catmint would take to work. 


Rocky purred happily, though he still wheezed with 
every breath. 

“Moth Flight!” 

She lifted her head sharply. A familiar voice was 
calling outside. 

Micah! Pelt pricking with excitement, she ducked 
out of her den. The yellow tom was crossing the 
clearing, the late sunshine turning his fur golden. She 
hurried to meet him, hoping her pelt didn’t look too 
dusty after her long trek through the forest. Her heart 
leaped as she saw him. 

He stopped as he reached her, his eyes shining. 
“How’s life as a medicine cat?” 

“You should know!” Moth Flight met his gaze, joy 
surging in her chest. “What's life like with SkyClan?” 

Micah swished his tail. “Okay, I guess.” He didn’t 
sound sure. 

“How’s Tiny Branch? Did you cure him?” 

“He’s charging around camp with his littermates, 
as healthy as a lark.” Micah puffed out his chest 
proudly. 

“Clear Sky and Star Flower must be happy,” Moth 
Flight commented. 


“Star Flower is,” Micah told her. “I think Clear 
Sky’s wishing he hadn’t promised I could stay if I 
cured his kit.” 

Worry rippled through Moth Flight’s fur. Clear Sky 
could be cruel. “Is he giving you a hard time?” 

“Nothing I can’t handle. He meows loudly, but he 
keeps his claws sheathed. I think—” 

“Micah.” Wind Runner’s mew cut him off. “What 
are you doing here?” 

Moth Flight turned to see her mother approaching. 
Her fur was still flattened where she’d been lying. 
Sleepiness clouded her gaze. But Moth Flight 
recognized her tone of voice. She stiffened, wondering 
whether the WindClan leader was going to find fault 
with her or with Micah. “He came to see me,” she told 
Wind Runner. Then she paused, glancing anxiously at 
Micah. “You did, right?” 

Micah purred. “Of course! I’ve missed you.” 

Wind Runner’s gaze darkened. “I really don’t think 
you should be here,” she told the yellow tom. “Clear 
Sky’s not too happy with WindClan at the moment. Not 
since we accused Red Claw of prey-stealing.” 

Or since I told him to take a farm cat into his 


Clan, Moth Flight thought. 

Wind Runner narrowed her eyes. “You smell like 
the forest, Moth Flight,” she meowed sharply. “Where 
have you been?” 

“I went to Twolegplace to fetch catmint for 
Rocky.” 

Wind Runner bristled. “Did you cross Clear Sky’s 
territory?” 

“It’s the quickest route.” 

Micah blinked at her. “I wish I’d known,” he told 
her earnestly. “I would have escorted you.” 

“Its okay,” Moth Flight reassured him. “Dust 
Muzzle and Spotted Fur came with me.” 

Wind Runner’s tail twitched. “Three of you 
crossed Clear Sky’s land?” 

Moth Flight faced her. “So what? We weren’t 
hunting. And Rocky needed the leaves.” 

“But what if—” 

Micah cut Wind Runner off, his eager gaze fixed 
on Moth Flight. “Did you find some?” 

Moth Flight nodded. “It was just like you said. 
Once I smelled it, I knew it was catmint.” 

“It makes your mouth water, doesn’t it?” Micah 


purred. 

“Stop it!” Wind Runner pushed in front of Micah. 
“You can’t come into our camp whenever you want to 
gossip about herbs!” She turned on Moth Flight. “And 
you can’t go wandering into SkyClan territory without 
telling me.” 

Moth Flight blinked at her. “But it was for Rocky! 
You’re always going on about the good of the Clan. 
Well this was for the good of the Clan.” 

Wind Runner’s gaze darkened. “It’s not for the 
good of the Clan if it starts a battle.” 

Moth Flight’s pelt pricked. “Surely there wouldn’t 
be a battle over something as dumb as crossing each 
other’s land.” 

“Clear Sky’s started one before,” Wind Runner 
muttered. 

Micah’s ears twitched. “I think Clear Sky is more 
interested in being a good father at the moment than 
fighting battles.” Before Wind Runner could reply, he 
caught Moth Flight’s eye. “I’d better go.” 

“Yes.” Wind Runner stared at him. “You'd better.” 

Moth Flight sniffed indignantly. “TIl walk you to the 
border.” 


Wind Runner shot her a look. “Don’t cross it.” 

“I won't!” Moth Flight whisked her tail as she 
headed for the entrance. Then she paused. “Pd better 
check on Rocky before I go. I want to see if the 
catmint's working.” 

Wind Runner stalked away, growling. “Don't be 
long. I want Micah back in his own territory by 
sunset.” 

Micah glanced at Moth Flight, his eyes glittering 
with amusement. “She's even sterner than I 
imagined.” 

“I warned you.” Moth Flight headed for her den, 
stifling a purr. 

Inside, Rocky stretched in his nest, spreading his 
belly happily. A loud purr throbbed in his chest. He 
wasn’t coughing. Moth Flight blinked at him. “It sounds 
like the catmint worked.” 

“I feel great!” Rocky lifted his head and stared 
blearily at Moth Flight. 

Micah padded past her and smelled the old tom’s 
breath. “How much did you give him?” he asked Moth 
Flight. 

“Two stems.” Moth Flight hurried to the nest 


anxiously. “Was that too much?” 

Before Micah could answer, Rocky reached out a 
paw and gave her a playful shove on the muzzle. “It 
was just the right amount.” His tail flicked over his 
belly. As it flashed past his nose, he grabbed it 
between his forepaws. “Got you!” Delight shone in his 
eyes. “Look! I caught my tail!” 

Moth Flight stiffened. She’d never seen him act 
like a kit before. “Have I poisoned him?” 

“He’ll be fine,’ Micah reassured her. “He might 
just be a little playful for a while. But his cough should 
improve.” 

“It already has.” Rocky flopped onto his side, his 
head lolling over the edge of his nest. 

“Come on.” Micah steered Moth Flight toward the 
entrance. “Let him sleep it off.” 

“I'm not sleepy,” Rocky called after them. 

“Stay in your nest,” Micah told him firmly. “We 
don’t want you wandering off and getting lost in the 
heather. You might feel better but you still need to 
rest.” He nosed Moth Flight from the den. 

Outside, in the sunshine, Moth Flight blinked at 
him. “How much should I have given him?” she 


asked. 

“Two or three leaves are enough.” Micah headed 
toward the camp entrance. 

Moth Flight hurried to catch up. “Did Tiny Branch 
act like that when you gave him some?” 

“I only gave him one leaf,’ Micah weaved 
between the tussocks and headed out of camp. 

Moth Flight’s pelt prickled hotly along her spine as 
she followed him. Rocky had been the first cat she’d 
ever treated. “I’m such a featherbrain,” she mewed 
crossly. 

Micah looked at her, surprised. “Why?” 

“T should have known it was too much.” 

“How?” Micah padded at her side. “You’d never 
seen it before. I’m impressed that you even found 
some.” 

“Really?” Moth Flight blinked at him. 

“Don't be so hard on yourself)” Micah told her. 
“We’re all learning.” 

“Have you made any mistakes?” Moth Flight 
asked. 

“Not yet.” Micah gazed across the heather. “But 
there’s so much I don’t know yet. Clear Sky seems to 


think I should have the answer to everything. Most of 
the time, I’m just guessing.” 

The breeze tugged Moth Flight’s pelt, chilly now as 
the sun began to set. But she hardly noticed. She was 
relieved to hear that Micah was feelng overwhelmed 
by his duties too. “I thought it was just me,” she 
meowed softly. 

Micah’s flank brushed hers. “It’s not just you,” he 
assured her. “I bet Dappled Pelt, Cloud Spots, and 
Pebble Heart are struggling too.” 

“Not Pebble Heart,’ Moth Flight sighed. 
“Everyone says he’s a natural healer.” She glanced at 
her paws. “I wish J was.” 

“How do you know you're not?” Micah 
challenged. “Rocky seemed very happy just now.” 

Moth Flight purred, picturing the old tom. “A bit too 
happy.” 

“There’s no such thing as ‘too happy.”” Micah 
broke into a run, swerved around a patch of heather 
and bounded down the slope as it steepened. 

Moth Flight chased after him, purring as she ran. 
She caught up as they neared the border. “Wait!” She 
didn’t want him to go home yet. 


He skidded to a halt as he neared the brambles 
spilling from among the trees. “What?” 

“You don’t have to get back to camp already, do 
you?” Moth Flight gazed into his amber eyes. 

Micah glanced at the border. “I guess not.” He 
didn’t sound sure. 

Moth Flight tipped her head. “Is something 
wrong?” 

“No.” Micah swished his tail breezily. “Of course 
not. I just promised Acorn Fur I’d help her mix some 
herbs.” 

“Acorn Fur?” Moth Flight frowned. “But you ’re 
SkyClan’s medicine cat.” 

“Clear Sky wants me to have a helper.” Micah 
avoided her gaze. “I think he wants her to keep an eye 
on me.” 

“Clear Sky’s never been too trusting.” Moth Flight 
padded closer. “I’m sure he”Il get used to having you 
as a medicine cat soon.” 

“Yeah.” Micah shrugged. “Besides, Acorn Fur’s 
nice. We get along fine. And she’s bright. I quite like 
having her around.” 

Moth Flight pushed away the jealousy pricking in 


her belly. “Acorn Fur’s okay,” she conceded. 

“We found a way to treat scratches,’ Micah told 
her. “If you chew dock leaves and horsetail stems into 
a paste, you can smear it deep into a wound.” 

Moth Flight pricked her ears. “T’ll try that next time 
one of the kits grazes a paw.” 

“It stings,’ Micah warned. “They'll make a fuss. 
But it will stop the wound from getting infected.” 

The brambles shivered. “Micah!” Acorn Fur 
padded into the evening sunshine. “I’ve been looking 
for you.” 

Micah dipped his head to the chestnut brown she- 
cat. “I was just on my way back to camp.” 

“Clear Sky wants you there now.” Acorn Fur eyed 
Moth Flight warily. “He says Tiny Branch needs more 
catmint.” 

Micah frowned. “Tiny Branch is fine.” 

“Just come!” Acorn Fur glared at him. “Clear Sky 
is in one of his moods.” 

“Let me say good-bye to Moth Flight first.” 

Moth Flight felt Micah’s soft breath on her muzzle 
as he leaned toward her. 

“Hurry up!” Acorn Fur crossed the border and 


padded to Micah’s side. 

Micah caught Moth Flight’s eye, his gaze 
apologetic. “I’ve got to go,” he whispered. 

“See you at half-moon,’ Moth Flight murmured 
back. 

“Yeah.” Micah followed Acorn Fur into the trees. 

Moth Flight watched the shadows swallow him, 
her pelt pricking uneasily. Acorn Fur was treating him 
more like a hostage than a Clanmate. Was Micah okay 
in SkyClan? She tore her gaze away, already longing to 
see him again, and headed back to camp. 





CHAPTER 17 
+ 


Moth Flight glanced at the moon. It rose, a perfect 
half circle, among the stars. The days since full moon 
had passed quickly. Moth Flight had been busier than 
she’d ever been before. Now she was on her way to 
Highstones. 

She paused, her paws chafed from the stony farm 
tracks. 

Micah halted beside her. “Tired?” 

“A little,’ she admitted. She’d normally be curled in 
her nest by now. 

They’d left WindClan as the sun sank toward the 
horizon. Micah and Cloud Spots had met Moth Flight 
on the moortop where she’d been waiting, the wind 
rippling her fur, heart racing in anticipation of their 
journey to the Moonstone. 

Now she glanced at Highstones, looming ahead of 
them. “We’ve made good time.” Cloud Spots had 
hurried ahead. She could see him, no more than a 
shadow tracking back and forth at the bottom of a 
beech hedge, as though looking for the easiest way 


through. “What if the spirit-cats don’t come?” 

Micah touched his muzzle to her shoulder. “You 
worry too much.” 

Cloud Spots glanced over his shoulder. “I’ve 
picked up Dappled Pelt's trail!” 

“At last!” Moth Flight was beginning to wonder 
whether the RiverClan medicine cat had forgotten the 
meeting. 

“Pebble Heart’s with her,” Cloud Spots called. 

Moth Flight hurried to catch up with the 
ThunderClan medicine cat. “Ts the trail fresh?” 

“Yes!” Cloud Spots ducked under the hedge and 
disappeared. 

Moth Flight squeezed after the long-furred black 
tom, the beech twigs scraping her pelt. Micah wriggled 
through at her tail. 

On the other side, a meadow stretched into the 
shadow of Highstones. The cliff seemed to swallow 
half the sky. Cloud Spots was already bounding 
through the long grass toward two feline shapes 
moving at the far side. 

“Pebble Heart!” Cloud Spots’s yowl rang in the 
cold night air. “Dappled Pelt! Is that you?” 


“Yes!” Pebble Heart’s call echoed back. 

Micah broke into a run. “Come on! We’re nearly 
there!” 

Moth Flight hared after him. As the soft grass 
turned to stones beneath her paws, she reached the 
RiverClan and ShadowClan medicine cats. “I thought 
you'd forgotten,” she puffed. 

Dappled Pelt’s tortoiseshell fur rippled along her 
spine. “How could we forget something as important 
as this?” 

“I can’t wait to speak with the spirit-cats!” Pebble 
Heart’s eyes shone with starlight. 

Micah paced back and forth, his tail twitching. 
“Cow and Mouse would never believe this.” He looked 
toward Highstones. The opening was just barely 
visible, a dark shadow in the face of the rock. 

Cloud Spots followed his gaze. “Is that where 
we’re going?” 

“Yes.” Butterflies fluttered in Moth Flight’s belly. 

“Ts it deep inside?” Pebble Heart’s mew trembled. 

“There’s no need to be scared,’ Moth Flight 
reassured him. “Once we’ve entered, you’ ll feel the 
Moonstone calling you.” She remembered the strange 


calm that had enfolded her last time. 

“Come on.” Micah began to cross the stones. 

Moth Flight bounded after him, pebbles crunching 
beneath her paws as the slope steepened toward the 
foot of the cliff. “I bet you never thought, a moon ago, 
that you’d speak with dead cats,” she guessed as she 
caught up. 

“I never thought I’d be living in a forest,” Micah 
returned. 

Moth Flight blinked at him anxiously. Did he resent 
how much she’d changed his life? “Are you sorry you 
met me?” 

Micah halted and met her gaze solemnly. “No. It’s 
the best thing that ever happened to me.” 

Joy rippled beneath Moth Flight’s pelt. “I feel the 
same w—” 

“Hurry up.” Cloud Spots slid past them, his black 
pelt hardly visible against the dark rock. Only his white 
ears and paws gave him away. 

Dappled Pelt hurried after the black tom. Pebble 
Heart bounded behind, scattering stones in his wake. 

Wincing as one hit her paw, Moth Flight glanced up 
at the dark opening. What would the others think when 


they saw the Moonstone for the first time? 

“Come on.” Micah nudged her forward. 

Pebble Heart had already leaped onto the shadowy 
ledge. The white spot on his chest glowed like a star. 
Cloud Spots hopped up beside him and stared blinking 
into the tunnel. Micah followed Dappled Pelt as Moth 
Flight scrambled up after them. 

The icy stone felt familiar beneath her paws. She 
sniffed the shadows. The tang of stone and water 
washed her muzzle and she shivered, excitement 
swelling in her chest. “Follow me.” As she padded into 
the darkness, cold air flooded over her pelt. Behind her, 
the starlight faded. “We have to reach the cave by the 
time moonlight strikes the stone.” Her breath billowed, 
warm around her nose. 

She heard the other cats’ paws scuff the stone as 
they followed. Eyes wide, Moth Flight peered into the 
blackness, relaxing as she let her whiskers guide her. 
Brushing the wall of the tunnel, she followed it down 
as it snaked deep into Highstones. 

“Do you remember the way?” Cloud Spots’s 
anxious mew echoed behind her. 

“What if you take the wrong tunnel?” Dappled Pelt 


fretted. 

“I know where I’m going,” Moth Flight promised. 

Micah’s breath rippled her tail-fur. “I can’t believe 
you came down here alone.” 

“T wasn’t alone.” A purr trembled in Moth Flight’s 
throat. “The spirit-cats were waiting for me.” 

“Are they there now?” Pebble Heart’s mew 
sounded from the blackness. 

“We’ll see when the moonlight hits the stone.” 
Moth Flight quickened her pace. She didn’t want to 
miss it. Fresh air touched her nose. “We’re nearly 
there!” She rounded a corner and felt the tunnel open 
around her. Air swirled over her pelt and she blinked 
as she saw weak starlight rippling on the cave walls 
ahead. She paused, her heart pounding. Pebble Heart 
padded past her, nose twitching. Dapple Pelt and Cloud 
Spots circled the great rock. 

Micah stopped beside Moth Flight. He stared at 
the hole high in the roof. “Who’d have thought starlight 
could reach down this far?” 

Moth Flight purred. “Wait until the moonlight 
arrives.” She padded toward the rock and settled 
herself in front of it. “We have to touch our noses to 


it,” she told the others. 

“How do you know?” Cloud Spots blinked at her. 

“I saw another cat do it in a dream, and last time I 
came—” 

Pebble Heart cut her off. “Look!” 

Moth Flight followed his gaze. Through the hole, 
she could see the clipped edge of the moon. “Hurry!” 

Fur brushing rock, the other cats settled around the 
Moonstone. Dappled Pelt’s eyes flashed with 
excitement. Pebble Heart shifted on his belly, pelt 
pricking. 

Cloud Spots crouched beside him, a whisker from 
the stone. Micah settled beside Moth Flight. She felt 
warmth seeping from his pelt and closed her eyes. 

Pebble Heart’s gasp made her blink them open. 

Light blinded her. The rock shimmered in front of 
her muzzle, brighter than countless stars. Her breath 
quickened as she touched her nose to it. 

The rock seemed to fall away. She was swept 
through the air, her head spinning, her heart pounding in 
her ears. And then she felt soft grass beneath her 
paws. 

She blinked open her eyes. 


Where was the cave? 

She was on top of a hill Green meadows stretched 
away on every side. In the distance, a forest lifted its 
branches to a clear, blue sky. She felt sunlight warm 
her pelt and smelled the fresh scent of newleaf. 

Micah shifted beside her. 

She caught his eye. “Where are we?” 

“You don’t know?” He blinked in surprise. 

“Last time, I never left the cave.” 

Cloud Spots looked around, pelt bristling. Dappled 
Pelt leaped to her paws. 

“What is this place?” Pebble Heart’s eyes were 
stretched with wonder. 

A silky mew answered him. “These are our 
hunting grounds.” 

Half Moon was climbing the slope toward them. 
More pelts shimmered into view, encircling the hilltop. 
Starlight shone in their fur. 

Joy swelled in Moth Flight’s chest. The spirit-cats! 
They’d come! 

Half Moon padded past Moth Flight and halted. 

As Micah turned his head, surveying the ranks of 
starry cats, Pebble Heart stretched his muzzle and 


sniffed at Half Moon. 

Dappled Pelt tipped her head, curiosity flashing in 
her eyes. “Stoneteller?” 

“It is good to see you settled in your new home,” 
Half Moon purred. 

Cloud Spots gazed into Half Moon’s dark green 
gaze. “Is it really you?” 

“Of course.” 

The ThunderClan tom’s gaze flitted to the other 
starry cats. “Jackdaw’s Cry! Bright Stream!” He 
raced from one cat to another, touching muzzles 
excitedly. 

“Rainswept Flower!” Dappled Pelt darted toward 
a brown she-cat. She greeted her, then jerked her 
muzzle toward an orange she-cat. “Hawk Swoop!” 

Micah shifted his paws, staring blankly at the spirit- 
cats. 

“Turtle Tail!” Pebble Heart’s eyes lit up as he saw 
his mother. He nosed his way between the spirit-cats 
toward her. 

Turtle Tail was already hurrying to meet him. 
“Pebble Heart!” Her eyes glowed with joy as she 
touched her muzzle to his head. 


Purring, he rubbed against her. “I thought I’d never 
see you again!” 

“We’re always close by.” Gray Wing slid from the 
crowd. 

Pebble Heart jerked his muzzle around, delighted. 
“You're both here! Together!” 

Gray Wing purred loudly, his starry pelt 
shimmering. “It’s good to see you, Pebble Heart.” 

Half Moon lifted her chin. “Let us gather and 
share news.” 

At her words, the starry cats closed the circle 
around Half Moon, Micah, and Moth Flight. Pebble 
Heart, Dappled Pelt, and Cloud Spots left their old 
friends and hurried to the center. 

“You did well.” Half Moon’s green eyes glowed as 
she gazed at Moth Flight. 

“Did I?” Moth Flight blinked at her anxiously. 

“Yes.” As Half Moon dipped her head to Moth 
Flight, murmurs of appreciation rippled around the 
spirit-cats. 

Moth Flight glanced at them shyly, pride surging 
beneath her pelt. “I just told the Clans, like you asked 
me to.” She remembered with a shudder Clear Sky’s 


scorn. And Tall Shadow’s disbelieving gaze. Even her 
Clanmates had thought she’d imagined the spirit-cats. 
“Thanks for sending the lightning.” Without it, the 
Clans might never have taken her seriously. “When 
you said you’d split the skies, I never guessed that’s 
what you meant.” 

Half Moon gazed at her warmly. “You will get 
better at understanding us.” 

Moth Flight hoped she was right. “What did you 
mean when you said later the stars would rise?” She 
tipped her head, waiting for the white she-cat to 
explain. 

“You will know when it happens.” 

Frustration pricked Moth Flight’s paws. Why 
couldn’t Half Moon just say what she meant? “When 
what happens?” 

Half Moon narrowed her gaze. “This is your life. 
We cannot guide every paw step. If we did, you would 
only discover our path. You must discover your own.” 

Moth Flight’s tail drooped. “I guess.” But it would 
be easier if you just told us what to do. 

Half Moon seemed to read her thoughts. “It would 
be easier, but not better.” She turned to Micah. “Thank 


you for leaving your home to join us.” 

“Us?” Micah’s ears twitched. He glanced uneasily 
around the spirit-cats. “I only joined SkyClan.” 

“You joined the Clans,” Half Moon purred. “What 
are we, if not another Clan?” 

Moth Flight's breath caught in her throat. The 
spirit-cats saw themselves as a Clan. “You’re 
StarClan,” she breathed, remembering when she’d 
looked up at the stars and first thought of the name. 

Half Moon’s eyes shone. “Yes.” She lifted her 
chin, surveying her starry Clanmates. “That’s exactly 
what we are.” 

“StarClan!” 

“StarClan!” 

The word rippled around the spirit cats, their eyes 
lighting up as they spoke their new name. 

Half Moon swished her tail, her dark green gaze 
returning to Micah. “You bring fresh spirit to the Clans, 
Micah,” she purred. 

Moth Flight sniffed. “He would, if Clear Sky let 
him. He’s told Acorn Fur to watch him.” 

“Clear Sky is the leader,” Half Moon reminded her. 
“He will do what he thinks best for his Clan. But he 


will see Micah’s worth.” Her gaze darkened. “T just 
hope he sees it soon.” 

“So do I!” Micah fluffed out his fur. 

Gray Wing padded forward and stopped beside 
Half Moon. “We are pleased to see the medicine cats 
learning skills from each other.” 

Bright Stream lifted her tail. “We hope you will 
share more!” 

“The Clans must pool their knowledge,” Rainswept 
Flower urged from among her Clanmates. 

“But we know so little!” Moth Flight blurted. 

Half Moon’s gaze flitted around the medicine cats. 
“You will learn more if you share.” 

Excitement sparked in Moth Flight’s chest. Of 
course! Micah had told her about catmint and she’d 
used it to cure Rocky. If she knew everything Dappled 
Pelt, Cloud Spots, Pebble Heart, and Micah knew, 
she’d be able to help her whole Clan. She blinked at 
Half Moon. “We will share! I promise.” 

The StarClan cat’s pelt began to fade. Around her, 
the spirit-cats were growing pale. 

Alarm flashed through Moth Flight. “Don’t go 
yet!” 


“We will return next half-moon,” Gray Wing called 
as he shimmered out of sight. 

The green meadows and distant forest grew hazy 
as Moth Flight desperately tried to fix her gaze on 
them. She felt dizzy as they began to swirl. Blackness 
enfolded her and a chill swept her pelt. 

She blinked open her eyes. She was in the cave 
once more, the Moonstone no more than a dull lump of 
rock. 

Micah shivered beside her. 

Pebble Heart pushed himself to his paws. 

Dappled Pelt lifted her head, blinking. “Did you all 
see that?” 

“We were on a hill!” Cloud Spots eyes gleamed in 
the weak starlight. 

“Stoneteller!” Dappled Pelt jumped up, her pelt 
bristling. “She wants us to share what we know about 
healing!” 

“Who’s Stoneteller?” Moth Flight tipped her head. 
Why did the older cats keep calling Half Moon by that 
name? 

“She was our healer in the mountains,’ Cloud 
Spots explained. “We called her Stoneteller.” 


Micah sniffed. “If she 5 a healer, why doesn’t she 
share what she knows with us?” 

Dappled Pelt padded around him, her pelt pricking 
excitedly. “Healing was different in the mountains. 
There weren’t many herbs. She must want us to learn 
new skills.” 

Pebble Heart’s eyes glazed, as though deep in 
thought. “We have the chance to become better 
healers than she ever could. She knows that. She 
wants us to be better.” 

Moth Flight’s paws tingled. “We must try our best. 
We have to share everything we know.” She wanted 
to make Half Moon proud. She 5 put so much faith in 
me. “A few days ago, Micah told me how to stop cuts 
from getting infected.” She looked at him expectantly. 

“I made a poultice of dock and horsetail by 
chewing up the leaves,” Micah told them eagerly. 
“Blossom had a scratch that was turning sour, so I 
licked the poultice deep into the wound and it was 
better by morning.” 

Cloud Spots’s whiskers twitched excitedly. “Clover 
kept chewing at a wound on her paw, so I smeared 
some mouse bile on it. She didn’t put her nose near it 


again.” 

“Shattered Ice got a bellyache from eating a 
stinking fish,’ Dappled Pelt put in. “I gave him 
watermint. He felt a lot better.” 

‘Tve been trying to work out if pinesap is good for 
anything,” Pebble Heart mewed thoughtfully. “So far it 
only seems useful for sticking leaves over wounds to 
keep dirt out.” 

As the others looked expectantly at Moth Flight, 
guilt wormed beneath her pelt. J havent discovered 
anything! Except that too much catmint makes cats 
crazy! “I guess I could see if heather is good for 
anything,’ she mewed tentatively. “But what if it’s 
poisonous?” 

“It can’t be,” Cloud Spots reasoned. “WindClan 
cats must be covered in heather dust. And you don’t 
get sick when you wash.” 

Why didnt I think of that? Moth Flight began to 
feel hot. “Perhaps I should have brought Reed Tail 
with me,” she mumbled. “He knows a lot.” 

“So does Milkweed,” Cloud Spots mewed. “She’s 
the one who suggested mouse bile.” 

Micah’s tail twitched. “Instead of bringing every 


cat who knows something about healing here, why 
don’t we travel to each other’s camps?” 

Moth Flight frowned. She wasn’t sure what he 
meant. 

“It would only take one or two of us to travel 
around, learning and sharing knowledge.” Micah paced 
in front of the Moonstone. “What if Moth Flight and I 
traveled to another Clan’s camp and learned 
everything we could? Then we could move on to 
another Clan and share what we’d learned and pick up 
new skills.” 

“What about the Clan you’d left behind?” Cloud 
Spots argued. “They’d only learn what you knew.” 

“We could take turns,’ Micah suggested. “You 
could travel with Dappled Pelt, or Pebble Heart. So 
long as we keep learning and sharing, it doesn’t matter 
who travels where.” 

Pebble Heart nodded. “Tt sounds like a good idea.” 

“How can we leave our Clans?” Dappled Pelt 
argued. “They need us.” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws. “I know so little that 
WindClan would be just as safe with Reed Tail in 
charge.” 


“Milkweed knows enough to look after 
ThunderClan while I’m gone,” Cloud Spots added. 

“You see?” Micah’s eyes glowed in the half-light. 
“The sooner we get started the better.” 

Dappled Pelt tipped her head. “Why don’t you and 
Moth Flight come visit RiverClan first? River Ripple 
will welcome you. He thinks medicine cats are a great 
idea.” 

“It might be hard to get Tall Shadow to agree to 
have strangers in her camp,” Pebble Heart murmured. 

Micah blinked at him. “Do you think Clear Sky is 
going to let me leave without an argument?” He 
swished his tail. “We have to persuade our leaders that 
it’s for the good of their Clans.” 

Pebble Heart nodded slowly. “The more we know, 
the better we can help our Clanmates,” he agreed. 

“Then it’s settled.” Micah turned to Dappled Pelt. 
“Moth Flight and I will visit you the day after 
tomorrow.” 

Moth Flight’s ears twitched. “What if Wind Runner 
stops me?” 

“You’re WindClan’s medicine cat now,” Micah 
told her. “She has to listen to you.” 


Moth Flight blinked. He was right. She wasn’t a kit 
anymore. She wasn’t even an ordinary Clan cat. 
“Okay,” she agreed. “PI meet you at the stepping- 
stones, the day after tomorrow.” She’d seen stones 
dotting the river where the forest gave way to the reed 
beds of RiverClan’s territory. 

Micah purred. “Great.” 

Pebble Heart shook out his pelt. Cloud Spots 
stretched, shivering, while Dappled Pelt swallowed 
back a yawn. 

Moth Flight guessed they were cold and tired. 
“Let’s go.” She headed for the tunnel. “We’ve got a 
long way to travel.” 

Micah fell in beside her as she ducked into the 
shadows. “How’s Rocky’s cough? Did the catmint 
work?” 

“Yes.” Moth Flight purred. Rocky had slept the 
whole day away after he’d swallowed the leaves, but 
he’d woken brighter and his cough was clearing up. 

Pebble Heart’s mew sounded from the darkness 
behind. “Is he the only cat in your Clan with a cough? 
Sun Shadow and Raven Pelt have been coughing for 
days.” 


“Dew Nose was a bit wheezy this morning,” Moth 
Flight told him. “But I think it’s just pollen making her 
throat tickle.” 

“Milkweed and Clover both have coughs,” Cloud 
Spots meowed. 

“Shattered Ice has been croaking like a frog these 
past days,” Dappled Pelt’s mew echoed around the 
tunnels walls. 

Moth Flight brushed against Micah, frowning. 
Perhaps newleaf always brought coughs. “Is Tiny 
Branch still okay?” 

“He was spluttering a bit this morning,’ Micah 
confessed. “T told Acorn Fur to keep an eye on him.” 

Moth Flight could hear anxiety in his mew. “He’ll 
be okay if you give him catmint, won’t he?” 

Micah’s paws scuffed the rock. “There was a tom 
on the farm with a cough,” he meowed darkly. “We 
called it redcough because, at the end, he coughed up 
blood.” 

At the end? Moth Flight shivered. The darkness 
suddenly seemed to press against her pelt as she 
padded on. 

“Pve never seen a Clan cat cough blood,” 


Dappled Spots murmured darkly. 

Alarm pricked in Moth Flights paws. “Didn’t 
catmint help?” she asked Micah. “You said there was 
some behind the barn.” 

“Cow tried giving him catmint, but it didn’t work,” 
Micah explained. 

“I know something more powerful than catmint.” 
Cloud Spots’s mew sounded at Moth Flight’s tail. She 
felt his breath stir her fur. “There’s a tree on SkyClan’s 
land. It oozes sap from cracks in the bark. The sap can 
cure any cough.” 

Moth Flight glanced over her shoulder hopefully. 
“Even redcough?” 

‘Tve never tested it,” Cloud Spots admitted. 

Fresh air began to wash Moth Flight’s muzzle. A 
few more paw steps, and starlight showed through the 
darkness. Crisp air sent a surge of energy through her 
fur. She hurried onto the ledge and gazed over the 
valley. Moonlight drenched the distant moor. “We’ll be 
home by dawn.” She leaped down, sending stones 
cracking down the slope, and headed for the meadow. 


Paws heavy with weariness, Moth Flight ducked 
through the gap in the camp wall. Beyond it, the sky 


showed orange over the forest as dawn pushed the 
night away. She could hear the gentle snoring of her 
Clanmates, and make out their pelts, just shadows in 
the grass as they slept curled in their nests. How good 
it would feel to slip into her den and snuggle deep into 
her own nest. 

She heard the sound of fur brushing the rocks as 
she passed them. She turned, blinking, through the half- 
light. “Who is it?” 

Wind Runner’s scent bathed her nose as her 
mother slid from the rocks. 

“You're back.” The WindClan leader stretched 
sleepily and touched her nose to Moth Flight’s cheek. 

“Did you wait up for me?” Warmth glowed in 
Moth Flight’s chest. 

“I slept a little,” Wind Runner admitted. “But I 
wanted to make sure you got back safely. It’s a long 
journey to Highstones.” 

“I had Micah with me,” Moth Flight reassured her. 

“I know.” Wind Runner wrinkled her nose 
distastefully. “I can smell his scent on you.” 

Moth Flight felt suddenly self-conscious. “Cloud 
Spots, Dappled Pelt, and Pebble Heart were there 


too,” she pointed out. 

Wind Runner’s gaze slid away. “Did you speak 
with the spirit-cats?” 

“Yes!” Moth Flight lifted her tail excitedly. 
“StarClan told us we must share the knowledge we 
have with each other.” 

“StarClan?” Wind Runner jerked her gaze back. 

“That’s what the spirit-cats are called now. They 
even have their own hunting grounds.” 

Wind Runner’s eyes widened but she didn’t 
comment. Instead she tipped her head. “Who has to 
share knowledge?” 

“The medicine cats.” Moth Flight squared her 
shoulders. She might as well tell Wind Runner about 
Micah’s plan now. “I’m meeting Micah at the border 
tomorrow. We’re going to visit RiverClan and learn 
everything Dappled Pelt knows about healing. All the 
medicine cats are going to visit each other’s camps. 
It’s what StarClan wants.” 

Wind Runner narrowed her eyes. “Clear Sky 
won’t let Micah visit other Clans. No matter what 
StarClan wants.” 

“Why not?” Moth Flight met her mother’s gaze. 


“He’s angry with WindClan, but that has nothing to do 
with Micah.” 

“Clear Sky doesn’t like to be told what to do.” 

“Micah will convince him it’s for the good of his 
Clan,’ Moth Flight insisted. “Micah can be very 
persuasive.” 

Wind Runner’s ear twitched uneasily. “I don’t 
doubt it.” 

“T’m tired.” Moth Flight ignored the suspicious glint 
in her mother’s gaze and headed across the clearing. 
“Im going to my nest.” 

“There’s a mouse for you on the prey pile,” her 
mother called after her softly. 

“Thanks.” Moth Flight blinked gratefully over her 
shoulder. “But I’m too tired to eat.” 

“Sleep well, then.” Wind Runner dipped her head. 
‘TIl make sure you’re not disturbed.” 

Moth Flight slipped quietly into her den. Rocky was 
purring in his sleep, his whiskers twitching as he 
dreamed. She climbed into her nest, surprised to find 
fresh heather lining it. Relishing the sweet scent, she 
curled down and rested her chin on the edge. Through 
the den entrance, she could see sunlight drenching the 


camp wall as the night sky paled into dawn. She 
wondered whether StarClan watched them during the 
day. Or do they fade with the stars? She pictured the 
sloping meadows and distant forest of StarClan’s 
hunting grounds; joy warmed her pelt as she thought of 
Gray Wing and Turtle Tail walking side by side once 
more. She purred. Tomorrow she’d be traveling with 
Micah to RiverClan. Was he looking forward to their 
journey as much as she was? 





CHAPTER 18 
+ 


As sunhigh neared, Moth Flight pulled a mouse 
from the prey pile. She wasn't very hungry, but she 
didn’t want her belly rumbling when she met Micah. 
And who knew what they’d be offered to eat in the 
RiverClan camp? She shuddered, remembermg the 
toad she’d caught, and hoped there’d be more to eat 
among the reed beds than river prey. 

She padded past Swift Minnow, who was washing 
in the long grass beside Reed Tail. Jagged Peak and 
Holly were repairing gaps in their den wall by 
threading heather—which Eagle Feather and Dew 
Nose had fetched from the moor—tightly between the 
stems. Gorse Fur and Wind Runner sat at the edge of 
the sandy hollow, their heads bent close as they talked. 
Slate sat beside Fern Leaf and Willow Tail, blinkmg in 
the sunshine while Black Ear, White Tail, and Silver 
Stripe climbed the gorse wall behind her. 

Warm prey scent bathed Moth Flight’s nose as she 
carried the mouse into the shade of the camp wall 
where Dust Muzzle and Spotted Fur were lounging in 


the thick grass, a half-eaten rabbit lying between them. 
As she dropped her mouse beside them and bent to 
take a bite, she noticed Spotted Fur’s tail twitching 
crossly from the corner of her eye. She ripped a lump 
of flesh from the mouse and looked at him. “What’s 
up?” she asked, her mouth full. 

He frowned. “Dust Muzzle says you’re going to 
visit RiverClan with Micah.” 

Moth Flight swallowed. “StarClan wants the 
medicine cats to learn from each other.” 

“Can’t you visit RiverClan by yourself?” Spotted 
Fur asked. 

“Micah needs to learn too.” Moth Flight cocked 
her head as she chewed. Why was he being so 
crabby? 

“Why can’t you travel with Pebble Heart or Cloud 
Spots?” Spotted Fur asked accusingly. 

Dust Muzzle hooked the rabbit closer with a claw. 
“Moth Flight can travel with whomever she likes,” he 
meowed absently. 

Spotted Fur got to his paws and shook out his pelt. 
“I don’t know if spending time with other Clans is a 
good idea,” he meowed loudly. 


Holly glanced over her shoulder, a sprig of heather 
in her paws. 

Moth Flight stiffened. The golden tom was 
attracting attention from their Clanmates. 

Fern Leaf jerked her muzzle around. “So it’s true! 
You're really going to visit RiverClan?” 

“Yes.” Moth Flight shifted her paws uneasily. 

Wind Runner looked up, eyes narrowing. 

“Is that a good idea?” Holly dropped the sprig of 
heather and headed across the clearing. “Rocky’s still 
sick.” 

“Reed Tail’s promised to watch him,” Moth Flight 
defended herself. 

Swift Minnow flashed her mate a look. “You didn’t 
tell me!” 

“He's not that sick.” Reed Tail pushed himself to 
his paws. “He’s just enjoying his cozy nest in Moth 
Flight’s den.” 

Slate’s eyes rounded with worry. “What if one of 
my kits gets ill?” 

Silver Stripe called down from the gorse wall. “We 
never get sick!” 

“But what if you do?” Slate fretted. 


“Reed Tail will know what to do,” Moth Flight 
promised the queen. He probably knows more than 
than I do. “Besides, I'm only going to RiverClan. 
Someone can come and fetch me if you need me.” 

Willow Tail’s ears twitched. “It’s just asking for 
trouble, crossing another Clan’s borders.” 

“Dappled Pelt invited me!” Impatience tightened 
Moth Flight’s belly. Willow Tail was only trying to 
make a point because of Red Claw. She felt a surge of 
anger toward the pale tabby she-cat; with all this talk 
of borders, she was getting as bad as Clear Sky! 
“Besides, Pm a medicine cat. Pm going there to 
learn, not to hunt!” 

Wind Runner padded to the center of the clearing. 
“StarClan has told the medicine cats to learn from 
each other.” Her gaze swept the Clan. 

Moth Flight felt a ripple of relief. Wind Runner 
wasn’t going to stand in her way. 

Gorse Fur nodded solemnly. “What Moth Flight 
learns from the other medicine cats will help us.” 

Jagged Peak stepped out from the shadow of his 
den, heather sticking out of his pelt. “Mixing with other 
Clans is dangerous,” he growled. 


Moth Flight bristled. “Why? You’ve lived with the 
forest cats and on the moor and in the pine marsh 
with Tall Shadow!” 

“Which means I’ve learned how important it is to 
remain in one place.” Jagged Peak met her gaze. 
“Your loyalty should be with us.” 

“It is with you!” Moth Flight snapped. “Visiting the 
RiverClan camp won’t change that.” 

“But you’re going because StarClan ordered you 
to, not Wind Runner,” Holly chipped in. “Are you a 
WindClan cat or a StarClan cat?” 

Moth Flight stared in dismay at her Clanmates. 
How could any cat doubt her loyalty? Her mother was 
the Clan leader! 

Wind Runner lashed her tail. “Stop all this mouse- 
brained chatter!” she growled. “I realize that we are 
not used to having a medicine cat among us. And it 
feels strange to take orders from spirit-cats. But Moth 
Flight only has the good of the Clan in her heart. She is 
going to learn so that she can take care of us better.” 
She fixed her gaze on Slate. “If one of your kits falls ill, 
wouldn’t you want Moth Flight to know as much as 
she can about healing?” She turned to Jagged Peak, 


her gaze hardening. “Never suggest that Moth Flight’s 
loyalties are divided! She was born a WindClan cat 
and, whatever happens, her heart will belong with her 
Clanmates.” 

Moth Flight felt a surge of gratitude toward her 
mother. But Spotted Fur’s accusing gaze still burned 
her pelt. She stared at her paws. He’ jealous of 
Micah. Guilt wormed in her belly. Was it disloyal of 
her to like the SkyClan medicine cat so much? 

She left her mouse and padded across the clearing. 
“I promised I'd meet Micah at sunhigh.” She avoided 
her Clanmates’ stares. “I don’t know when Pll be 
back, but if there’s an emergency, send for me.” 

Ignoring the hushed murmurs behind her, she slid 
out of camp, relieved to feel the cool wind in her fur. 

Moth Flight headed for the RiverClan border. As 
she climbed down the steep path that led to the river, 
she saw Micah, seated on a stepping-stone. He was 
silhouetted, still and strong, against the flashing water. 
He looked up as she neared and she narrowed her 
eyes against the glare of the sparkling ripples. 

Behind him, the river split, cutting through the reed 
beds to create an island in the middle. She knew from 


listening to her Clanmates talk that RiverClan made 
their camp there and she wondered what it would feel 
like to be entirely surrounded by water. 

“It's so peaceful here!” Micah’s purr rumbled over 
the chattering stream. 

Moth Flight jumped gingerly onto the first stepping- 
stone, watching the water as it swirled around her. She 
flinched as a ripple broke over the edge of the stone 
and splashed her forepaw. 

Micah purred louder. “You might have to get used 
to getting your paws wet in RiverClan.” 

“I hope not.” She shook the water off. 

It felt good to be away from camp. The newleaf 
sun warmed her pelt. The river was sheltered from the 
wind by the forest on one side and the cliffs on the 
other. Pungent scents filled her nose and the birds 
chattered over the babbling of the river. She blinked 
happily at Micah. Alone here, with him, she didn’t need 
to impress Wind Runner, or know how to treat Black 
Ear’s bellyache or Storm Pelt’s itchy ears. 

She crossed the stepping-stones until she reached 
Micah, then lifted her face to the sun and half closed 
her eyes. The wind whisked the reed beds on the far 


shore, stirring the rushes until they rippled like water. 

Downstream, a black she-cat padded onto the 
shore. An orange she-cat passed her, wading into the 
shallows until the water streamed through her belly fur. 
She dipped her head, then plunged beneath the 
surface. 

Moth Flight froze. “She sank!” 

Micah leaned forward, ears pricked. “Wait.” He 
watched the water until suddenly, with a splash, the 
RiverClan she-cat broke the surface a few tail-lengths 
away, a fish clamped between her jaws. She swam 
back to shore, then hauled herself out and disappeared 
among the reeds. Her Clanmate gave a mrrow of 
approval, then followed. 

Moth Flight shivered. “I hope Dappled Pelt doesn’t 
try to teach us to do that!” 

Micah purred. “If she does, you can threaten to 
teach her how to hunt in your tunnels.” 

“I hate tunnel-hunting,” Moth Flight confessed. 
“It's Dust Muzzle’s specialty, not mine.” 

“You’re a medicine cat,’ Micah reminded her. 
“You have your own special skills.” 

“T wish.” 


“That’s why we came here.” Micah jumped onto 
the next stone and crossed to the far shore. He 
glanced back at Moth Flight. “We’ll know plenty by the 
time we leave. But we’d better hurry up. Those cats 
probably told Dappled Pelt we’re on our way.” 

Ruefully, Moth Flight followed. She wished she 
could spend all afternoon watching the river with 
Micah. But he was right. Dappled Pelt would be 
expecting them. She landed on the sandy shore and 
followed Micah along a trail that wove among the 
reeds. The earth was muddy and squelched between 
her claws. As the trail widened, she caught up with 
Micah. “What did Clear Sky say when you told him 
you were visiting RiverClan?” 

“He wasn’t happy.” Micah kept his gaze fixed 
ahead. 

“Did he try and stop you?” Moth Flight scanned 
Micah’s pelt for scratches. 

“He wanted to know why,” Micah told her. “It took 
a while to convince him that it was for the good of 
SkyClan but, in the end, he agreed.” 

“Wind Runner thought you’d never convince him.” 
Moth Flight felt a glimmer of satisfaction that Micah 


had proved her mother wrong. 

“I think Clear Sky likes cats who stand up to him,” 
Micah told her. “And it helped that Star Flower was 
there. Since I helped Tiny Branch, she wants me to 
learn as much as I can—in case Dew Petal or Flower 
Foot gets sick.” 

“How’s Tiny Branch’s cough?” 

“It seems to get better one day and worse the 
next,’ Micah murmured thoughtfully. “I wonder if 
there’s something in the forest that aggravates it.” 

“Silver Stripe always sneezes when she’s been 
playing near heather flowers,’ Moth Flight 
commented. “Maybe you could follow Tiny Branch for 
a day and see where he plays.” 

“I wish I had time for that,” Micah meowed. 
“Clear Sky keeps me busy treating flea bites and 
gathering herbs.” 

“But you have Acorn Fur to help you.” Moth Flight 
ignored the jealousy pricking beneath her fur. “Couldn’t 
she take your duties for a day?” 

“Clear Sky insists she never leave my side when 
we’re on SkyClan territory.” 

Moth Flight blinked. “Never?” 


Before Micah could answer, the reeds ahead 
shivered and a black she-cat slid out and blocked the 
path—the same one they’d seen on the shore 
downstream. She eyed Micah and Moth Flight 
suspiciously. “What are you two doing here?” 

“Hi!” Micah greeted her cheerfully. “Didn’t 
Dappled Pelt warn you? She invited us to come and 
learn what she knows about healing.” 

“Night!” A mew sounded farther along the trail. 
Dawn Mist appeared from among the rushes. Her 
orange-and-white pelt was wet, slicked against her 
slender frame. “Dappled Pelt said that if it’s Micah and 
Moth Flight, you’re to escort them to her den.” 

Night narrowed her eyes. “I still think it’s a bad 
idea to let other Clan cats into our camp.” 

“River Ripple says it’s okay,’ Dawn Mist argued. 
“And they’re only medicine cats. What’s the worst 
they can do? Cure you?” 

Night snorted and turned her tail on them. “Follow 
me,” she huffed. 

Moth Flight padded beside Micah, following the 
she-cat along the winding path. 

Dawn Mist fell in beside her Clanmate and glanced 


over her shoulder. “I wish I could visit the other 
Clans,” she mewed. “I can’t imagine what it’s like to 
live on the moor or in the forest.” 

Moth Flight’s paws slithered on the muddy earth. 
“It's dry,” she muttered. 

As Dawn Mist purred with amusement, the reeds 
opened up and Moth Flight saw a clearing ahead. Fish 
scent washed her muzzle as two kits bounded across 
the sandy soil and bundled into Dawn Mist. 

“Dawn Mist!” The gray-and-white she-kit bounced 
around the orange queen. “Pine Needle ate more of 
the trout than me! It’s not fair.” 

The black tom-kit dug his paws into the earth. “T 
did not! She’s just being greedy!” 

“Poor Drizzle.” Dawn Mist licked the gray she- 
kit’s head. ‘TIl catch another fish soon,” she promised. 
“Can we have one each?” Pine Needle asked. 

Drizzle blinked eagerly. “I want the biggest one!” 

“You two are greedier than foxes,” Dawn Mist 
purred. She nosed the kits away. “Go and play. I'm 
helping Night show our guests to Dappled Pelt's den.” 

Drizzle’s eyes opened wide as she spotted Moth 
Flight and Micah. “What are they doing here?” 


“Invasion!” Pine Needle fluffed out his fur. 
“Should I warn River Ripple?” 

A deep purr rumbled at the side of the clearing. 
“There’s no need to warn me. I was expecting them.” 

Moth Flight jerked her nose around and saw the 
RiverClan leader sitting in the shade of the reed wall. 

He stood and crossed the camp, dipping his head 
as he neared. “I’m glad you’re here. Dappled Pelt’s in 
her den.” He pointed his muzzle to the foot of a long- 
dead tree. Its roots snaked into the earth, forming a 
cave beneath the stump, where countless moons of 
wind and water had hollowed out the earth. 

Night flashed Moth Flight a look. “I hope you can 
hunt for yourselves,” she growled. “I’m not feeding 
WindClan or SkyClan cats.” 

River Ripple blinked calmly at his Clanmate. “It 
doesn’t matter what Clan they’re from; their hunger is 
no different from yours.” 

Night snorted and stalked away. 

Dawn Mist whisked her tail. “Don’t worry about 
her,” she whispered to Moth Flight. “She enjoys being 
bad-tempered.” 

Drizzle pricked her ears. “Yesterday she said that I 


was as dumb as a water vole. But I’m not.” 

“Of course you’re not!” Pine Needle’s whiskers 
twitched mischievously. “You’re dumber.” 

“Hey!” Fluffing her fur out indignantly, Drizzle 
leaped at her brother. Pine Needle ducked out of the 
way and hared across the camp. 

“Tl get you for that!” Drizzle hurtled after him. 

“When they’re not eating, they’re fighting.” Dawn 
Mist rolled her eyes. “I’d better fetch them more 
prey.” She headed toward a gap in the reeds where 
the river lapped the edge of the clearing. Without 
pausing, she slid into the river and disappeared beneath 
the surface. 

Moth Flight glanced at Micah. The RiverClan cats 
seemed more like otters than cats. Micah was gazing 
around the camp. Shattered Ice lay in a patch of 
sunshine at the far end of the clearing. Swift, a dark 
brown tom, washed himself beside the camp wall. 

River Ripple flicked his tail toward Dappled Pelt’s 
den. “She’s been looking forward to your arrival.” 

Micah dipped his head to the RiverClan leader and 
headed toward the tree stump. Moth Flight hurried 
after him, her nose twitching as the stink of fish grew 


stronger. She could see that the gaps between the 
roots of Dappled Pelt’s den had been woven with 
reeds. Feathers were threaded between them and 
fluttered in the soft breeze. 

Dappled Pelt stuck her head out from under an 
arching root. “You’re here at last!” she purred. “Come 
in! I’ve just finished sorting my herbs.” 

As the RiverClan medicine cat ducked back into 
the shadows, Moth Flight followed her down the short 
slope that led into the den. She shivered. The reed 
walls screened out the bright sunshine and the 
shadows felt cold and damp. Reeds were strewn over 
the floor. They shifted beneath Moth Flight’s paws. 
She blinked, adjusting her eyes to the half-light. 
“You've got plenty of space!” She paused in the center 
and looked around. There was room enough for four 
nests here, though she could only see two, both woven 
from rushes. She looked up and saw shadow where 
the roof disappeared into the rotting stump. A spider 
was spinning a web at one corner. “You'll always have 
cobwebs to dress wounds!” she mewed, delighted. 
Perhaps I should catch spiders and try to persuade 
them to nest in my den! 


Micah slid under the root and padded inside. “Does 
it flood?” He glanced over his shoulder. 

“Not unless the whole island floods,” Dappled Pelt 
told him. 

Moth Flight blinked, alarmed. “Has that ever 
happened?” 

“It happened once, during a storm that came after 
moons of rain.” Dappled Pelt patted a stray rush into 
the nest beside her. “River Ripple says if there’s rain 
like that again, we’ll shelter in the forest until it 
passes.” 

Micah was peering into the shadows behind 
Dappled Pelt, where an earth wall formed the back of 
the den. “Is that where you keep your herbs?” 

Moth Flight followed his gaze. Small holes had 
been hollowed from the mud, and green leaves stuck 
out here and there. 

“There’s a different hole for each herb.” Dappled 
Pelt’s eyes shone proudly. 

“Doesn’t the damp air make them rot?” Moth 
Flight was used to the dry winds that scoured the 
moor. 

“It's airy enough,” Dappled Pelt told her. “The 


breeze from the river keeps it cool, which seems to 
preserve fresh leaves, and I find that fresh leaves are 
more effective than dried leaves.” 

Micah frowned. “It's a shame,” he murmured. 
“Leafbare brings more illness. But by then, all we’ll 
have left in our supplies are dried leaves.” 

“Seeds and berries keep their strength.” Dappled 
Pelt reached into one of the holes and pulled out a 
pawful of dark berries. She dropped them at Moth 
Flight’s paws. 

As Dappled Pelt drew out one herb after another, 
telling them where they could be gathered and what 
they treated—juniper for bellyache, poppy to ease pain 
—Moth Flight tried hard to remember them, sniffing 
their pungent leaves, rolling their seeds beneath her 
paw, fixing the scents in her mind. She couldn’t wait to 
get home and start scouring the moor. 

Micah nosed past Dappled Pelt and sniffed a wide, 
furry leaf. “What's this?” 

As Dappled Pelt turned to see, a yowl split the air 
outside the den. 

“Help!” 

Moth Flight froze as Night skidded down the slope 


into the den. Her eyes were wide with terror. “You 
have to come! I just pulled Drizzle from the river— 
she’s not breathing!” 





CHAPTER 19 
+ 


Dappled Pelt darted past her Clanmate. Micah 
hared after her. Panic flashing beneath her pelt, Moth 
Flight followed. 

Dappled Pelt was already skidding through a gap in 
the camp wall as Moth Flight reached the clearing. 
Micah raced at her heels. Moth Flight gave chase, 
blood roaring in her ears. She leaped through the gap 
and pulled up sharply as the river loomed in front of 
her. 

Dawn Mist was standing at the water’s edge, her 
eyes hollow with dread. Water dripped from her fur 
and she trembled like frightened prey. A sodden scrap 
of fur lay at her paws. 

Drizzle! Moth Flight’s heart leaped into her throat. 

Dappled Pelt dropped into a crouch beside the 
unmoving kit. 

Micah leaned close. “Is she dead?” 

Dappled Pelt jerked her nose toward Dawn Mist. 
“Keep her warm. She’s in shock.” 

Micah hurried to Dawn Mist’s side and pressed 


against her. 

Moth Flight’s paws seemed frozen to the ground as 
she stared at Drizzle. The tiny kit’s flank wasn’t 
moving. “She’s not breathing!” She stared at Dappled 
Pelt. Why did the RiverClan medicine cat look so 
calm? 

Dappled Pelt’s gaze flitted over Drizzle’s body, 
then she lifted her forepaws and rested them on the 
she-kit’s chest. 

Moth Flight watched, eyes stretched wide, as 
Dappled Pelt began pumping the kit with rapid jerks of 
her paws. “What are you doing?” How could 
squashing the poor kit help? 

Dappled Pelt ignored her. She paused and leaned 
down, sniffing at Drizzle’s muzzle. Then, straightening, 
she began to pump the kit’s chest again. 

Drizzle’s body shuddered with each jolt, her paws 
flapping limply, like the paws of a dead rabbit. 

Dappled Pelt paused again and sniffed at Drizzle’s 
nose. 

Dawn Mist let out a low moan. “She’s dead!” 

“No,” Dappled Pelt, growled fiercely. “Not yet.” 
Once more she rested her paws on Drizzle’s chest and 


began pumping. 

Suddenly, with a splutter, Drizzle jerked and began 
coughing up water. Dappled Pelt quickly rolled the kit 
onto her side, stroking her chest fiercely as Drizzle 
brought up more water. 

“Drizzle?” Dawn Mist’s mew was no more than a 
breath. 

Drizzle stopped vomiting and blinked at her mother. 
“What happened?” she croaked weakly. 

Pine Needle stuck his nose out from behind a 
clump of reeds. “Is she okay?” His eyes were bright 
with terror. 

Dawn Mist beckoned him closer. “She’s fine.” She 
looked anxiously at Dappled Pelt. “Isn’t she?” 

“Yes. Now that she’s coughed up the water, she’ ll 
be able to breathe again,” Dappled Pelt told her briskly. 

Moth Flight stared at the River Clan medicine cat. 
She wasn’t even trembling. How does she stay so 
calm? 

Pine Needle hurried to his mother’s side and 
pressed against her flank. “She wanted to see if she 
could catch her own fish. But she disappeared under 
the water,” he mewed shakily. “I called Night when 


she didn’t come up again.” 

“She needs to learn to swim before she catches a 
fish.” River Ripple brushed past Moth Flight. 

She spun, her heart lurching at the sight of the 
RiverClan leader. She hadn’t heard his paw steps. 

He touched his muzzle to Dawn Mist’s cheek. 
“Start teaching them as soon as Drizzle has 
recovered.” 

Dawn Mist met his gaze, her eyes glistening. “I 
wanted to wait until they were stronger.” 

“Fish swim the moment they are born,” River 
Ripple murmured. “It’s never too soon for a RiverClan 
kit to learn.” 

Drizzle pushed herself uncertainly to her paws. 

Dawn Mist leaned down and lapped her cheek. 
“Let’s get you into my nest and warm you up.” She 
nosed the kit toward the clearing. 

River Ripple ran his tail along Pine Needle’s spiked 
fur. “You did well to fetch help.” 

“T only called to Night.” 

“That was the right thing to do,” River Ripple told 
him. 

Pine Needle stared at him uncertainly. “I shouldn’t 


have let her go into the water.” 

River Ripple touched his muzzle to the kit’s head. 
“Sometimes we can’t stop others from making 
mistakes. But we can help them when they do. And 
that’s what you did.” He nosed the kit after his mother, 
who was lifting Drizzle into a reed nest on the far side 
of the clearing. 

Dappled Pelt watched her leader as he guided Pine 
Needle away. “He’s so good with the kits,” she 
murmured. “It’s a shame he doesn’t have any of his 
own.” 

Moth Flight hardly heard her. “How did you know 
what to do?” 

“River Ripple taught me,” she explained. “He's 
lived near the water all his life and he knows that you 
can push water out of a cat’s chest as easily as a cat 
can suck it in.” 

Micah swished his tail through the air. “You were 
fantastic! I thought Drizzle was dead.” 

Dappled Pelt gazed at the river as it swirled past. 
“It’s a trick every RiverClan cat should know.” 

Admiration surged beneath Moth Flight’s pelt. / 
hope I’m as calm and skilled as Dappled Pelt one 


day! How must it feel to save another cat’s life? She 
wondered if Half Moon had been watching. PI try to 
become as good as she is, she promised silently. 


Clouds hid the setting sun. A thin drizzle misted the 
river and a breeze rustled the reeds around camp. 

Moth Flight shifted closer to Micah as the damp 
wind licked her pelt. She eyed Night, who was 
watching them warily from the other side of the 
clearing. Dawn Mist was still curled in her nest, tucked 
among the rushes. River Ripple had gone hunting for 
shrews in the reed beds with Dawn Mist’s mate, Swift. 
“Are you sure we should stay the night?” Moth Flight 
whispered. 

“Of course!” Micah looked up from washing his 
belly. “Look how much we learned today! Tomorrow 
we'll learn even more.” 

Moth Flight was glad he was with her. She liked 
the RiverClan cats, but it felt strange to be away from 
the hollow. After she’d returned from the valley, she 
thought she’d never leave her Clanmates again. “Do 
you think River Ripple will catch a shrew?” she 
mewed hopefully. 

Dappled Pelt had slipped into the river as the sun 


began to sink, promising to bring them back a juicy 
trout. 

Micah blinked at her. “Don’t you want to taste 
fish?” 

Moth Flight wrinkled her nose. She’d smelled 
nothing but fish and herbs all afternoon. She was 
looking forward to tasting the sweet, familiar flesh of 
prey with legs. Before she could answer, water 
splashed behind them and Dappled Pelt waded out 
from the river. 

Moth Flight’s heart sank as she saw a fish 
between the tortoiseshell’s jaws. It thrashed as she 
padded onto land, its scales glittering through the rain. 
Dappled Pelt stopped in front of them and dropped it 
on the ground. 

Moth Flight hopped backward as it wriggled, 
spattering mud onto her paws. 

Purring with amusement, Dappled Pelt stilled it 
with a forepaw and leaned to give a killing bite. “At 
least you know it’s fresh,” she meowed, looking up. 

Micah glanced at Moth Flight. “Do you want the 
first taste?” 

She flattened her ears and sniffed uneasily at the 


fish. “Is this a trout?” 

Dappled Pelt’s eyes flashed. “It’s called a chub.” 

Moth Flight stifled a shiver. “Does it taste anything 
like toad?” 

“No!” Dappled Pelt snorted. “Who eats toads?” 

“They taste like mud!” Micah spluttered. 

Heat spread beneath Moth Flight’s pelt. There was 
no way she was going to tell Micah and Dappled Pelt 
that she’d shared one with Spotted Fur. She touched 
the chub gingerly with a paw. 

Micah caught her eye. “Do you want to wait and 
see if River Ripple brings back a shrew?” 

“No.” Moth Flight lifted her chin. She wasn’t a 
coward. Besides, it would be rude to refuse Dappled 
Pelt’s gift. “I want to taste fish.” She leaned down and 
sank her teeth into the soft flank of the chub, delighted 
to find the texture meatier than the rubbery toad flesh. 
As she tore away a chunk, the flavor sang on her 
tongue. She blinked at Dappled Pelt in surprise. “It’s 
nice!” Chewing, she relished the soft flesh. It tasted of 
fresh water. “It’s delicious!” 

“Don’t tell Wind Runner you like RiverClan food,” 
Micah joked. He took a mouthful, his eyes brightening 


as he chewed. “Oh, you’re right! It’s great!” 

As he spoke, River Ripple nosed his way through 
the reed wall of the camp, a water vole dangling from 
his jaws. Swift followed him, carrying a shrew. They 
stopped when they saw Moth Flight and Micah. 

River Ripple dropped the vole. “You’re eating 
fish!” 

“Its tasty!” Moth Flight ripped off another 
mouthful. 

River Ripple nodded toward the shrew dangling 
from Swift’s jaws. “You might as well share that with 
the kits.” 

The dark brown tom dipped his head and carried 
his catch toward the nest where Dawn Mist was 
curled with Drizzle and Pine Needle. Placing it beside 
the tightly woven bundle of reeds, he stuck his nose in 
and nudged Dawn Mist's pelt. 

She jerked her head up, blinking. 

“How’s Drizzle?” Swift asked. 

“I'm fine!” Drizzle sat up, ears pricked. 

“I smell vole!” Pine Needle clambered onto his 
mother’s back and peered from the nest. Nose 
twitching, his gaze flashed toward River Ripple’s 


catch. He scrambled out of the nest and raced toward 
it. “Can I taste it?” He glanced at the RiverClan 
leader. 

“Of course.” As River Ripple pushed the vole 
toward Pine Needle, Drizzle leaped from the nest and 
hurried to her brother’s side. 

“I want to taste it too!” 

River Ripple purred. “It’s good to see you looking 
better.” 

Drizzle stuck her tail up indignantly. “I wasn’t sick. 
I only went for a swim!” 

River Ripple’s whiskers twitched. Water beaded 
along them as the rain grew heavier. He glanced up at 
the darkening sky. “I’m going to my nest.” He headed 
toward a den, woven among the roots of another tree 
stump. 

Moth Flight felt rain seeping through her pelt. 
“Where should we sleep?” she called after the 
RiverClan leader. 

He paused and nodded toward Dappled Pelt’s den. 
“Is there room enough there?” 

Dappled Leaf nodded. “They can share the spare 
nest.” 


As River Ripple disappeared inside his den, Moth 
Flight glanced shyly at Micah. She’d only shared a nest 
with her brother before. Dust Muzzle had always 
teased her that it was like sleeping next to a badger. 
“T’m afraid I snore.” 

“Good.” He took another bite of fish. “I snore 
too.” 

Dappled Pelt rolled her eyes. “Great,” she 
muttered. 

When they’d finished the chub, she led them to her 
den. Rain was thrumming the earth as dusk gave way 
to night, and Moth Flight was relieved to slip into the 
shelter of the tree stump. She crossed the dark den 
and climbed into the reed nest on the far side, surprised 
to find the stems silky beneath her paws. All the sharp 
ends had been carefully tucked underneath so that 
curling into it felt almost as good as curling into her 
heather nest at home. She wriggled to one side, leaving 
room for Micah. 

He squeezed in beside her. “Do you have enough 
room?” 

“Yes.” Moth Flight purred as Micah’s warm pelt 
pressed against her. 


Dappled Pelt’s golden gaze shone through the 
darkness. “Are you both comfortable?” 

“T am,” Micah purred. 

“Me too.” Moth Flight snuggled deeper into the 
reeds. She yawned, suddenly sleepy. “I hope I 
remember everything I’ve learned today.” 

“You will.” Micah shifted beside her, tucking his 
paws close to his belly. 

Moth Flight blinked at him through the darkness. “T 
don’t think PI ever forget seeing Drizzle come back to 
life.” 

“She was never dead,” Dappled Pelt meowed 
across the den. “She just needed air in her chest 
instead of water.” 

Moth Flight suddenly remembered her dream of 
the blue-gray she-cat. She’d come back to life too. 
Perhaps she hadn’t been dead either. Moth Flight 
frowned. But no cat had pumped her chest, and she 
hadn’t coughed up water. 

Beside her, Micah’s breathing began to slow and 
deepen. He was drifting into sleep. Moth Flight rested 
her muzzle on her paws and watched him. Her fur 
tingled where his breath stirred her pelt. Gradually, her 


eyes grew heavy and closed and darkness swirled 
around her. 


A familiar stone tang touched Moth Flight’s nose. 
She opened her eyes as the scent of the Moonstone 
cave washed her tongue. Leaping to her paws, she 
gazed around. How did I get back— 

Before she could finish her thought, two cats 
padded into the cave. A large, dark tabby, the one 
she’d seen with the gray she-cat the day she’d come 
back to life, headed for the Moonstone, his eyes fixed 
on the dull rock. He glanced at the hole in the roof, the 
watery starlight reflecting in his yellow eyes. 

Moth Flight shivered. There was coldness in this 
tom’s gaze, and a stiffness in his broad shoulders that 
frightened her. He seemed to be waiting for the moon 
to light the rock, impatience rippling along his spine. 

The gray tom, who’d entered the cave with him, 
stopped at the dark tabby’s side. The tabby jerked his 
muzzle around, snarling as the gray tom spoke. There 
was no friendship between these cats. Then why are 
they here together? 

The dark tabby sank stiffly onto his belly and 
touched his nose to the rock a moment before 


moonlight set it alight. 

Moth Flight screwed up her eyes, flinching as 
brightness blinded her. 

The stone beneath her paws turned to squelchy 
moss. She blinked open her eyes eagerly. Was she 
back on StarClan’s hunting grounds? 

Darkness pressed on every side. She turned her 
head sharply. Trees loomed around her. This wasn’t 
StarClan’s land. She recognized the dank scent of 
rotting wood, sharpened by the smell of pinesap. This 
was ShadowClan territory. 

Feline shapes moved among the trees, their 
shadowy pelts glittering with starlight. Spirit-cats! She 
scanned the starry cats, hoping to see a familiar pelt, 
but these weren’t the StarClan cats she knew. Heart 
racing, she backed toward a tree, hoping she couldn’t 
be seen. Her fur rippled with fear. These cats moved 
with solemn purpose and the dark tabby seemed to be 
waiting for them, his gaze blazing expectantly in the 
darkness. 

His eyes narrowed as a sparkling tom approached 
him. Moth Flight saw the spirit-cat speak, but she 
couldn’t make out the words. As the tom stepped 


away, a small ginger she-cat took his place. The she- 
cat spoke and the dark tabby answered, disdain 
sparking in his gaze. 

Doesnt he respect his ancestors? Moth Flight 
leaned closer, pelt pricking with interest. 

The she-cat reached her muzzle forward and 
touched the dark tabby’s head. 

The tabby jerked as though agony flared through 
him. 

This is like the time I saw the blue-gray cat in 
the cave! Moth Flight remembered her dream. Why 
did the touch of these spirit-cats seem to cause so 
much pain? 

Moth Flight narrowed her eyes, her breath 
quickening as one after another, the spirit-cats stepped 
forward and touched the dark tabby. Each time, he 
stiffened, his pelt spiking, but he did not give ground. 
He met each new touch, his eyes burning with hunger. 

Finally, the last spirit-cat stepped away and the 
dark tabby lifted his muzzle. Moth Flight looked into his 
eyes, searching for some clue as to what the spirit-cats 
had shared with him, but she saw only pride. 

Around him, the spirit-cats’ mouths moved. They 


seemed to be chanting something. Moth Flight pricked 
her ears, trying to make out the words, but she 
couldn’t. One StarClan tom broke off, his mouth frozen 
as he stared at the dark tabby. 

Moth Flight swallowed as she saw dread darken 
the spirit-cat’s gaze. 

She jolted awake, cold with fear. 

“Moth Flight?” Micah jerked his head up as she 
stared, blinking, around Dappled Pelt’s den. 

The sound of his mew soothed her and she turned 
and met his gaze. 

“Bad dream?” he asked. 

As she nodded, he leaned forward and touched his 
muzzle to her cheek. “Go back to sleep,” he murmured 
softly. “We’re safe here.” 

Obediently, she rested her nose on her paws and 
closed her eyes. She felt his tongue lap her ear until 
weariness muddled her thoughts. 

“Tt was only a dream.” Micah stopped and tucked 
his muzzle beside hers. 

These arent dreams. They’re visions. As his 
breath deepened into gentle snores, worry pulled Moth 
Flight back from the brink of sleep. But what are they 


about? And why do they make me feel so uneasy? 





CHAPTER 20 
+ 


Early-morning light washed the reed beds. The rain 
that had drenched the camp for the past two days had 
finally lifted and sunshine was breaking through the 
clouds. On the other side of the clearing, River Ripple 
stretched outside his den. Moss Tail and Dawn Mist 
were stirring sleepily in their nest while Drizzle and 
Pine Needle charged across the camp, trying to catch 
each other’s tails. 

Dappled Pelt blinked kindly at Moth Flight and 
Micah. “I’ve taught you all I know.” 

Micah whisked his tail. “You know lots!” 

“I can’t wait to use some of the stuff I’ve 
learned!” Moth Flight’s pelt prickled with excitement. / 
hope I can find goatweed on the moor! It was one 
of the herbs Dappled Pelt had shown them. A few 
leaves, given daily, might lift Slate’s grief. 

Her paws itched to go home, and yet the thought 
of leaving Micah made her heart ache. 

Micah glanced around the RiverClan camp. “I’m 
going to miss it here,’ he murmured. “I was getting 


used to the sound of the river lulling me to sleep.” 

I was getting used to the sound of your 
breathing. Moth Flight glanced at him shyly. Her own 
nest would seem chilly without him. 

Drizzle skidded to a halt between them. “Are you 
leaving?” 

Pine Needle stared at Micah with round eyes. 
“You can’t go yet! I haven’t taught you how to fish.” 

Micah nudged the kit’s cheek with his nose. “You 
need to learn how to swim first.” 

Pine Needle stuck out his chin. “I swam a whole 
tail-length yesterday!” 

Drizzle snorted. “With Dawn Mist holding your 
scruff!” 

“At least I didn’t try to swallow half the river!” 

“Hush.” Dappled Pelt silenced Pine Needle with a 
look. “Micah and Moth Flight need to return to their 
Clans.” 

“Why can’t they stay here with us?” Drizzle 
mewed. 

“My Clan needs me,” Micah told her. 

A twinge jabbed Moth Flight’s heart. J need you. 
She pushed the rabbit-brained thought away. “Mine 


$3 


Drizzle’s tail drooped. “Okay.” 

“Will you come and visit again?” Pine Needle 
asked. 

“Of course.” Moth Flight swished her tail. “When 
we have new skills to share.” 

Dappled Pelt’s eyes shone. “I hope it won’t be 
long.” Her gaze flitted past them. 

Moth Flight turned, following it. River Ripple was 
heading toward them. She dipped her head as he 
neared. “Thank you for letting us stay.” 

“Tt was an honor.” 

Micah nudged Moth Flight as the RiverClan leader 
blinked at her respectfully. “See what happens when 
you get chosen by StarClan?” he teased. 

“I must get back to my herbs.” Dappled Pelt 
turned toward her den. “They won’t sort themselves.” 

“Thanks!” Moth Flight called as she disappeared 
inside. 

Micah gazed across the reed beds thoughtfully. 
“Do we have to go home right away?” 

Moth Flight shot him a look. “Don’t you want to go 
back to SkyClan?” 


too. 


“Eventually.” Micah leaned close to her ear. “But I 
like hanging out with you,” he whispered. 

Moth Flight snatched her gaze away, her pelt 
growing hot. “I like hanging out with you too,” she 
mumbled. 

River Ripple looked away, his whiskers twitching. 
Moth Flight wondered if he’d heard. 

“Perhaps Cloud Spots can teach you about 
woodland herbs,” River Ripple meowed vaguely as he 
stared toward the forest. “ThunderClan camp isn’t 
far.” 

Micah blinked at him. “That's a good idea! It’ll be 
fun. And we can tell Cloud Spots what we’ve learned 
from Dappled Pelt.” 

“Im sure he’ll appreciate that.” River Ripple kept 
his gaze on the trees. 

Moth Flight shifted her paws self-consciously. 
“Maybe.” She felt guilty about staying away from the 
moor for so long. And with Micah. “But what about 
WindClan? They might need me.” 

River Ripple blinked at her. “You’ve got a whole 
lifetime to take care of your Clan. Have fun while you 


33 


can. 


She glanced at Micah. If River Ripple thought 
visiting ThunderClan was okay, then it must be. “Let’s 
do it.” 

Micah purred. “Great!” 

River Ripple’s tail twitched. “Do you want me to 
show you the way?” 

And miss walking alone with Micah? “No,” 
Moth Flight told him quickly. 

“We? ll find it,” Micah assured him. 

“T thought you’d say that.” A teasing glint flashed 
in River Ripple’s eyes. Moth Flight’s paws prickled 
with embarrassment. He had guessed they wanted to 
be alone. 

River Rippled turned his muzzle toward the forest. 
“The camp’s in a ravine,” he told them. “It’s hard to 
see from the top, so follow your noses.” 

Micah dipped his head and padded toward the 
camp entrance. “Thanks.” 

“Yes, thank you, River Ripple,’ Moth Flight called 
as she hurried after Micah. 

They followed the trail through the reeds until it 
opened onto the riverbank. Moth Flight could see the 
stepping-stones, which crossed to the tree-lined shore 


beyond. She trotted happily toward them. Dappled Pelt 
had led her over them so many times in the past few 
days that she no longer thought twice about getting her 
paws wet. She knew this stretch of river and the herbs 
that grew along it as well as she knew the moortop. 
She beat Micah to the first stone and bounded across, 
landing at the far side, her chest bursting with 
happiness. 

She purred as Micah landed beside her. “Which 
way now?” 

Micah gazed among the trees, narrowing his eyes 
as he scanned the shadows. “I don’t know this part of 
the forest.” 

“Let’s explore it together.” Moth Flight marched 
from the shore and hopped over an oak root jutting 
from the ground. She brushed past a fern, its fresh 
leaves glowing in the dappled light that glittered 
through the canopy. Musty scents bathed her muzzle 
and, for the first time since leaving the moor, she 
smelled mouse. Her belly rumbled. They hadn’t eaten 
since last night, when Moss Tail had brought them a 
trout. She longed to taste furry prey again and she 
scanned the undergrowth, hoping to catch sight of 


movement among the leaves. 

“We mustn’t hunt,’ Micah reminded her. His nose 
was twitching. “Can’t you smell the border scents?” 

Moth Flight had been too busy sniffing for prey. 
She lifted her muzzle and breathed in the scent of 
ThunderClan cats. “Perhaps we can catch a fish. I’m 
sure River Ripple won’t mind.” Her belly growled 
again. 

“Can you swim?” Micah stared at her. 

“No.” Moth Flight glanced back at the river. “But 
sometimes they come close to the shore. We might be 
able to wade in and grab one.” 

“Or we could wait here for a bird to fly into our 
paws.” 

Moth Flight lifted her tail and brushed past Micah, 
huffily. “It was just a suggestion.” 

He purred and padded after her. “I love your 
suggestions.” 

Moth Flight tried not to purr. Micah was so sweet. 

He fell in step beside her. “Let’s find the camp. 
Hopefully ThunderClan will share their prey.” 

Moth Flight followed Micah, pelt pricking uneasily. 
Had Cloud Spots warned Thunder that StarClan 


wanted the medicine cats to share their knowledge? 
She knew that the ThunderClan leader was Clear 
Sky’s son; did that mean he’d be as suspicious as 
SkyClan’s leader? 

They followed a rabbit trail between brambles and 
bracken as the forest floor rose beneath their paws. It 
steepened as the trees grew thicker, the shadows 
deepening around them. 

“Do you know where you're going?” she asked 
Micah hopefully. 

“No.” Micah scrambled over a rotting log and 
paused on the other side. 

Moth Flight dropped down beside him and gazed 
between the trees. They seemed to stretch on forever, 
sunlight piercing the leaves here and there, illuminating 
spots of woodland with brilliant shafts of light. She 
pointed her nose toward a thick path of brambles some 
way ahead. “Do you think that could be the camp 
wall?” 

“Let’s check.” Micah headed toward it, stumbling 
as a root tripped him. 

Moth Flight steadied him with her muzzle. “I 
thought you were used to forests,” she teased. 


“Tm used to farms,” Micah reminded her. “I don’t 
know if Pll ever stop stubbing my paws on roots.” 

“Of course you will. You just nee—” Moth Flight 
yelped as she trod on a patch of young nettles. Pain 
shot through her paw and she hopped clear, lifting it 
protectively. 

“Wait.” Micah glanced at the nettles then began to 
scan the forest floor, his eyes lighting up. He dashed 
toward a clump of leaves sprouting beside an ash. 
Tearing one off with his teeth, he carried it back to 
Moth Flight. 

She stared at it. “What’s that?” 

“Dock.” Micah laid it upside-down on the ground 
in front of her. “Rub your paw on it.” 

Moth Flight pressed her throbbing pad to the soft 
leaf. 

“Rub it hard,” Micah urged. 

Moth Flight squashed the leaf beneath her paw 
until she felt its juices bathe the sting. To her surprise, 
the pain eased. “That’s great!” She stared at Micah 
with round eyes. 

“T learned it from Cow,” Micah told her. 

“T wonder if dock grows on the moor,” Moth Flight 


murmured. 

A deep mew sounded from between the trees. “If 
nettles grow there, dock won’t be far away.” 

Moth Flight jerked around, her heart lurching. 

Micah flattened his ears warily. 

“Don't worry. It’s only me.” A black tom padded 
from the shadows. 

“Cloud Spots!” Relief washed Moth Flight’s pelt. 

“Are you two lost?” The ThunderClan medicine 
cat stopped beside them. 

“We’ve come to visit you,” Micah explained. 

Cloud Spots sniffed them, his nose wrinkling. 
“How was your stay with RiverClan?” 

“Dappled Pelt taught us so much!” Moth Flight told 
him eagerly. “We’ve come to share what we learned.” 

Micah lifted his tail. “And hopefully learn some 
more.” 

Moth Flight blinked at Cloud Spots. “Will Thunder 
let us stay?” 

“Of course.” Cloud Spots flashed Micah a playful 
look. “He doesn’t want SkyClan’s medicine cat 
knowing more than his.” 

Micah purred. “He sounds like Clear Sky.” 


“Perhaps,” Cloud Spots conceded. “But he also 
wants to please StarClan.” 

Micah’s whiskers twitched. “I’m not sure Clear 
Sky cares much about what StarClan thinks. But he 
cares about his Clan.” 

Cloud Spots dipped his head. “He’s become a 
worthy leader.” 

Moth Flight looked toward the bramble thicket. 
“Are we near the camp?” 

“It’s not far,” Cloud Spots told her. “I’m heading 
back there once I’ve collected some borage leaves.” 

Moth Flight gazed at him blankly. “What’s 
borage?” 

“PI show you.” Cloud Spots led them along a 
winding track through bracken, stopping as the trees 
thinned. In the patchy sunlight beyond, green plants 
crowded the forest floor. Their soft leaves looked furry 
and buds showed at the top of each stem. “By 
greenleaf, this patch will be purple with flowers.” 

Moth Flight padded among the stems, breathing in 
the zesty perfume. She stopped and touched her nose 
to a leaf, surprised by its softness. “What’s it for?” 

“The leaves help soothe bad bellies,’ Cloud Spots 


told her. “And relieve tight chests. They can also help 
nursing queens to make more milk for their kits.” 

Micah weaved among the stems. “Is someone ill?” 

“Milkweed has just had kits,” Cloud Spots told her. 

Moth Flight blinked. Newleaf seemed to bring kits 
like it brought fresh leaves. She wondered if any cat in 
WindClan was expecting. 

Micah ran his paw over a borage leaf. “Doesn’t 
she have enough milk?” 

“Pm just making sure,” Cloud Spots told him. 
“Milkweed’s not as young as she used to be. She had 
her first litter many moons ago, before she joined the 
Clan.” 

“Is Leaf the father?” Moth Flight tipped her head, 
curious. She’d seen Leaf and Milkweed at gatherings. 
They’d always stayed close, watching each other with 
a fondness she’d only seen between her mother and 
Gorse Fur. 

“Yes,” Cloud Spots purred. 

Moth Flight reached out a paw and tore a borage 
leaf from its stem. 

“The best leaves grow halfway up the stem,” 
Cloud Spots told her. “Not too tough, but old enough to 


have plenty of sap.” 

Moth Flight chose another leaf closer to the middle 
of the plant. “Like this one?” 

“That’s great.” Cloud Spots picked a leaf from the 
plant beside him and laid it on the ground. 

Together they picked enough to make a small pile, 
then Cloud Spots rolled them into a tight bundle and 
clasped it between his jaws. 

He headed away through the trees. Moth Flight 
followed, Micah on her tail. They pushed past the 
brambles and headed across a clearing, Cloud Spots 
slowing as the forest sloped upward. 

He flicked his tail sharply, his ears twitching a 
warning. Moth Flight halted as the medicine cat 
stopped and looked down. She followed his gaze, 
amazed to see the land drop away into a steep ravine. 

Spindly trees and bushes crowded the bottom. “Is 
the camp down there?” 

“Yes.” Cloud Spots placed his bundle on the 
ground. “Follow my route down the cliff and watch 
closely where I put my paws. Some of the ledges are 
narrow.” Picking up the wad of borage, he scrambled 
down onto a wide shelf, then hopped onto a narrow 


jutting stone below. 

Moth Flight glanced nervously at Micah. 

“Trust your paws,” Micah told her. “They led you 
to the Moonstone.” Slithering onto the first ledge, he 
followed Cloud Spots. Moth Flight ignored her 
pounding heart and jumped down after him. 

She landed clumsily and sent grit showering down. 
“Sorry!” she called as it sprayed Cloud Spots and 
Micah. 

Micah shook the dirt from his pelt. “Don’t worry!” 

Carefully, Moth Flight leaped down onto the next 
ledge, unsheathing her claws to help her grip. Fear 
sparked beneath her pelt as she hopped from rock to 
rock until at last she saw the ground below. She landed 
on the smooth earth beside Micah, limp with relief. But 
there was still no sign of the camp. A large gorse bush 
blocked their way. She scanned it, searching for an 
entrance, but it was only when Cloud Spots slid among 
the dark green branches that she saw it. She followed 
Micah through, aware of the high cliffs and thick 
bushes looming on every side. It was different from 
the airy RiverClan camp. 

As she emerged from the gorse, she blinked, 


surprised to see a grassy clearing. Bushes encircled it, 
and a wide thicket of bramble crowded one end, while 
a great rock towered at the other. On the far side, a 
cliff showed amid burgeoning ferns and, at the other 
side, a rotting tree lay, bark crumbling around it. 

Cloud Spots headed for the brambles, while Micah 
paused in the clearing. 

Moth Flight stopped beside him. She could smell 
ThunderClan scents. They clung to the grass and 
drifted from every bush, but there was no sign of any 
cat. “Where is every cat?” 

“Hunting!” Cloud Spots called over his shoulder 
before disappearing among the bramble stems. 

“Pm not.” A croaky mew sounded from the 
shadows beneath a jutting branch of the fallen tree. A 
skinny white tom crept out. Moth Flight recognized 
Pink Eyes. She’d seen him at her first Gathering. He 
blinked through sunlight shafting past the thick canopy. 
Is he blind now? The tom was squinting, as though 
trying to make them out. 

“It's me, Moth Flight.” She padded closer. “I’m 
WindClan’s medicine cat—” 

Pink Eyes interrupted. “You don’t need to tell me 


who you are. The Clan has been gossiping about you 
since you came back from Highstones, talking of spirit- 
cats.” 

Moth Flight hesitated. The Clans gossiped about 
her? She shifted her paws self-consciously as Pink 
Eyes went on. 

“You told Cloud Spots to be our medicine cat, so 
now he wants me to eat herbs,” he muttered peevishly. 
“He thinks he can cure my aches and pains. But you 
can’t cure old age.” 

Cloud Spots squeezed out from the bramble. “I can 
try,” he called to Pink Eyes. 

“Pd rather you brought me a fresh vole every 
day,” Pink Eyes huffed. 

Cloud Spots flashed Moth Flight an exasperated 
look. “It’s my job to take care of you.” 

A young orange-and-white she-kit who looked 
about three moons old slid out from the bramble and 
raced toward the old tom. “Pink Eyes! Shall I fetch 
fresh moss for your bedding?” 

A dappled gray tom-kit chased after her. “P1 help 
you, Apple Blossom.” He stopped as he saw Moth 
Flight and Micah and blinked at them in surprise. “Are 


these the visitors you told Milkweed about?” he asked 
Cloud Spots. 

“Yes. Moth Flight and Micah.” 

“Hi!” Apple Blossom dipped her head, then looked 
at Cloud Spots. “Can we go and gather moss for Pink 
Eyes’s bed?” 

Pink Eyes snorted. “I don’t need my nest stuffed 
with damp moss.” 

Apple Blossom lifted her tail. “We’ll lay it in the 
sun to dry first.” She flicked her muzzle toward the 
dappled gray tom-kit. “Snail Shell says he found a 
patch of the softest moss ever.” 

The tom-kit nodded. “We can fetch it now.” 

Cloud Spots frowned. “Ts it far from camp?” 

Snail Shell shook his head. “It’s near the top of the 
ravine.” 

Apple Blossom blinked hopefully at the 
ThunderClan medicine cat. “We won’t be gone long.” 

Cloud Spots dipped his head. “Be careful climbing 
down. It’s hard to see where you’re putting your paws 
with a mouthful of moss.” 

Apple Blossom hared toward the gorse barrier. 
“We won’t fall.” 


Snail Shell chased after her, disappearing through 
the gap in the dark green branches. 

Pink Eyes rolled his eyes dramatically. “Between 
swallowing herbs and having my nest cleaned out, I 
don’t get a moment’s peace.” 

Cloud Spots purred. “And don’t forget all the kit- 
watching you do,” he teased. 

“Kit-watching!” Pink Eyes grunted. “I suppose I 
feel useful helping out Gooseberry and Yew Tail. 
Makes the new family feel welcome. But Apple 
Blossom and Snail Shell hardly need me anymore.” 

“Shivering Rose, Hazel Burrow, and Morning Fire 
will, as soon as they’re big enough to leave the den.” 

Moth Flight pricked her ears. Jf Apple Blossom 
and Snail Shell belong to a new family, then the 
kits Cloud Spots just mentioned must be... . “Are 
they Milkweed’s kits?” 

Cloud Spots nodded, glancing toward the bramble 
bush. “Do you want to see them?” 

“Yes.” Though Moth Flight was more interested in 
finding out if Milkweed had eaten the borage Cloud 
Spots had taken her. She followed the ThunderClan 
medicine cat toward the tangle of brambles that spilled 


from one edge of the clearing. As she neared, she saw 
a small entrance hollowed among the stems. 

Cloud Spots stuck his nose in. “Milkweed! Moth 
Flight’s here. May she see your kits?” 

“Of course!” A gentle mew sounded from inside. 

Moth Flight glanced at Micah, standing in the 
clearing. “Can Micah come?” 

Micah shrugged. “Cow always told me to leave a 
queen and her kits to themselves. PI keep Pink Eyes 
company,” he meowed. “He must have plenty of 
stories to share.” 

Pink Eyes’s tail twitched. “I don’t see why a young 
tom like you would be interested, but okay.” 

Cloud Spots wriggled through the brambles and 
Moth Flight followed. She was surprised to find herself 
in a wide hollow walled by prickly stems. Sunlight 
speared through gaps in the branches. “How did you 
make this den?” she asked, gazing around. 

“Carefully,” Cloud Spots purred. 

Three wide nests, woven from twigs and lined with 
moss, sat on a dry earth floor. A splotchy ginger-and- 
black she-cat gazed with amber eyes from one. Three 
tiny kits squirmed at her belly, their eyes closed. 


The warm scent of milk touched Moth Flight’s 
nose. One of the kits began mewling as another 
pushed him away from his mother’s soft flank. 
Milkweed quickly scooped him near with a paw. 
“That’s Hazel Burrow,” she purred. “Shivering Rose 
and Morning Fire are always stealing his milk. But he’s 
going to grow into a handsome tom, just like his 
father.” 

“They’re all beautiful.” Moth Flight gazed at the 
black-and-white tom-kit, happy now as he nursed at 
Milkweed’s belly. Shivering Rose nuzzled in beside 
him, her black pelt as fluffy as an owl chick’s, while 
Morning Fire squirmed closer, her dark brown fur 
camouflaged among the shadows. 

Moth Flight glanced toward the empty nest on the 
other side of the den. It smelled warm. “Is that Apple 
Blossom and Snail Shell’s nest?” 

“They share it with their mother, Gooseberry,” 
Cloud Spots told her. 

“There’s hardly room for them anymore,” 
Milkweed commented. “But there may be more space 
soon. The third nest belongs to Violet Dawn, and I 
think she wants to move to Thunder’s den.” 


Moth Flight knew that Violet Dawn was a sleek 
dark gray she-cat who’d joined ThunderClan several 
moons ago. Thunder had taken her as his mate. 

Cloud Spots narrowed his eyes thoughtfully. 
“Perhaps they should be building new nests instead of 
collecting moss for Pink Eyes.” 

A hoarse mew sounded outside the den. “Do you 
want me to go scavenging for my own bedding?” 

Cloud Spots purred. “Pink Eyes’s sight may be 
weak, but his hearing is as sharp as ever.” He nodded 
toward the den entrance. “Let’s leave Milkweed to 
rest.” 

“Have you given her the borage?” Moth Flight 
asked. 

Cloud Spots nodded to a pile of leaves beside her 
nest. “She’s had one leaf and I’m leaving the rest in 
case she needs more.” 

“Take some for your store,” Milkweed told him. “I 
won’t need it all.” 

Cloud Spots glanced at the kits, suckling happily at 
her belly, and nodded. “Okay.” He grabbed a few 
leaves from the pile and nosed his way out of the den. 

“Thanks for letting me see your kits,’ Moth Flight 


mewed gratefully to the queen. 

Milkweed purred. “There's nothing better than 
being a mother.” 

“I guess.” Moth Flight shrugged, wondering what 
could be better than roaming the moor alone, searching 
for new plants. She couldn’t imagine being responsible 
for cats too helpless to look after themselves. But isn t 
that what a medicine cat has to do? Her belly 
tightened as she followed Cloud Spots into the clearing. 
Then she saw Micah. He looked so handsome, a pool 
of sunshine creeping slowly across his flank. He was 
lying beside Pink Eyes, his attention fixed on the old 
tom as he listened. 

“The squirrel was near the top of the tree,” Pink 
Eyes rumbled. “But I wasn’t going to let it get away. I 
followed it up. Then, just as I scrambled onto the 
highest branch, there was—” The old tom broke off 
and snapped his gaze toward the gorse. 

A moment later, the barrier trembled and Thunder 
padded into camp. Lightning Tail trotted at his heels. 
The ThunderClan leader’s orange pelt glowed in the 
dappled sunlight. A rabbit hung from his jaws. Owl 
Eyes and Leaf followed, carrying prey. 


“Good hunting, I see?” Cloud Spots nodded toward 
the rabbit. 

Thunder dropped his catch. “Just wait until 
greenleaf.” His gaze slid toward Moth Flight. 

Micah scrambled to his paws and shook out his 
dusty pelt. “I hope you don’t mind—” 

Thunder dipped his head to Moth Flight. “We are 
honored by your visit.” He turned to Micah. “How is 
Clear Sky?” 

“He’s fine.” 

Lightning Tail grunted. “Does he still think he’s the 
best cat in the forest?” 

“He knows his strengths,’ Micah answered 
diplomatically. 

Thunder snorted. “I bet he likes you.” 

“He will,” Micah answered. “Eventually.” 

Leaf was heading for the nursery. “Is Milkweed 
okay?” he called to Cloud Spots. 

“She’s fine.” 

Owl Eyes glanced toward the gorse barrier. “Violet 
Dawn asked me if you have any chervil. She’s had a 
bellyache all morning.” 

“Where is she?” Cloud Spots’s eyes darkened with 


worry. 

“She stopped to help Apple Blossom and Snail 
Shell gather moss,” Owl Eyes told him. 

“Pll get some for her,” Cloud Spots meowed. 
“There’s plenty in the forest.” 

Micah narrowed his eyes. “Don’t you keep any in 
your store?” 

Cloud Spots shrugged. “It's better to pick fresh 
leaves this time of year,” he explained. “PI gather 
some to dry for my store in late greenleaf, when it’s 
starting to die back.” 

Paw steps sounded beyond the gorse barrier and 
Thistle and Clover pushed their way into camp. They 
were dragging a fat wood pigeon between them. 

Thunder swished his tail. “You managed to get it 
down the cliff!” 

Clover sniffed. “Thistle threw it over the edge and 
we hauled it from the bottom.” 

Moth Flight glanced at the battered bird, its wings 
splayed awkwardly. Feathers speckled the ground 
around it. “It was a good thing no one was 
underneath.” 

Thistle sniffed. “Any cat who can’t hear a pigeon 


bouncing down a cliff needs his ears checked.” 

Micah’s eyes flashed with amusement. “It looks 
like it hit every ledge on the way down.” 

Pink Eyes padded to the pigeon and sniffed it. “At 
least itll be tender.” 

Cloud Spots nodded toward the ferns. “Do you 
want to see my den before I go and gather chervil?” 

Moth Flight nodded eagerly and followed as Cloud 
Spots headed across the clearing and pushed through a 
tunnel of ferns. 

Moth Flight glanced at Micah as he stopped beside 
her. “You go first.” 

The yellow tom dipped his head and nosed his way 
after Cloud Spots. Moth Flight followed, padding 
through the fern tunnel, her belly fluttering with 
excitement. She could already smell Cloud Spot’s 
herbs. A small clearing opened ahead, edged by a cliff 
that stretched toward the top of the ravine. Water 
trickled down the rock, pooling at one edge, and a 
crack opened in the stone. Moth Flight padded toward 
it and sniffed, her nose twitching as the pungent herb 
scents grew stronger. “Do you keep your stores in 
there?” She peered into the darkness. 


Cloud Spots brushed past her and reached into the 
crack. He pulled out a wad of leaves, neatly bundled 
and tied with grass. He opened it and spread the herbs 
over the den floor. 

Moth Flight glanced at them, hoping to recognize 
one. But they were forest herbs, lush and dark and 
musty-smelling. 

“This is comfrey.” Cloud Spots pulled the largest 
leaf closer. “I keep a few leaves in my store in case 
Pink Eyes is wakened in the night by aches. But the 
forest is full of it and I like to gather it fresh each day 
and line his nest with it.” 

“What does it do?” Micah sniffed the furry leaf. 

“It eases the pains in his jomts,” Cloud Spots told 
him. 

“Can you eat it?” Moth Flight asked. 

“Yes, but wrapping sore limbs in the leaves works 
just as well,’ Cloud Spots told her. “I’ve heard it even 
helps broken limbs to heal, though I’ve not yet had to 
try it.” 

The ferns rustled and Leaf padded into the den. 
“Milkweed’s thirsty,” he meowed. 

Cloud Spots jerked his muzzle around. “I’m sorry! 


I meant to give her fresh moss.” 

Moth Flight frowned, puzzled. How could moss 
help thirst? 

“TI take it to her.” Leaf padded toward the water 
pooling beside the rock. He hooked a lump of moss 
from a heap piled at one edge and dipped it in the 
water. He let it soak for a few moments, then grabbed 
it between his jaws and carried it, dripping, toward the 
fern tunnel. 

As he disappeared, Moth Flight blinked. “She laps 
water from the moss!” Had she seen Reed Tail 
soaking moss in puddles on the moor? She must ask 
him when she got back. It was a great idea. Sick cats 
could stay in their nests and rest instead of roaming the 
moor in search of a drink. 

Cloud Spots gathered up his herbs. “I’d better 
gather chervil for Violet Dawn. Come with me. PI 
show you some other herbs you might find useful.” 

“Great!” Micah lifted his tail. 

Happiness fizzed beneath Moth Flight’s fur. She 
was going to return to WindClan knowing so much! 
Cheerfully she followed Micah and Cloud Spots out of 
the den. 


An owl hooted at the top of the ravine. Moth Flight 
huddled closer to Micah, searching for a glimpse of the 
moon through the canopy of trees. Thunder had 
offered them a nest beside the fallen tree. She could 
hear Pink Eyes snoring a tail-length away and smell 
the comfrey lining his nest. 

The forest was black with shadow. She was used 
to the moor, washed silver by moonlight. Countless 
scents, made richer by a heavy dew, filled her nose. 
Trying to ignore the pressing darkness, she recalled the 
plants Cloud Spots had shown them, murmuring their 
names under her breath. “Coltsfoot, goldenrod, 
feverfew, catchweed—” 

“Can’t you sleep?” Micah whispered in the 
darkness. 

“T don’t want to forget anything,” Moth Flight told 
him. 

Micah nuzzled her ear. “He’ll show us again 
tomorrow,” he promised. “You'll remember, don’t 
worry.” 

I hope so. 

“Go to sleep,” Micah murmured. “It’s been a busy 
day, and tomorrow might be even busier.” 


Moth Flight closed her eyes and nestled against his 
thick fur. It was cozy here. Snail Shell and Apple 
Blossom had brought back so much moss that there 
was enough to line their own nest. Micah’s warm 
scent seeped into her thoughts as she slipped into 
sleep. She purred contentedly. She could easily get 
used to sleeping beside him every night. 





CHAPTER 21 
+ 


Moth Flight slept. As Micah 5 soft breath washed her 
muzzle, she dreamed. 

Four kits squirmed between them in a sunny 
nest. Happily, she nuzzled the strong tom-kit 
clambering over her flank. “Look, Micah! Hes as 
handsome as you!” She turned to meet Micah s 
loving gaze, but he’d gone. Alarm spiked through 
her pelt. “Micah? Where are you?” She was 
suddenly alone in the nest, cold air flooding 
around her. “Kits?” Panic surged through her. She 
leaped to her paws and stared into the shadows 
closing fast around the nest. Straining to see, she 
searched for Micah and her kits. “Where did you 
go?” 

“Moth Flight!” 

A voice called her name. 

“Micah! Is that you?” She struggled awake. 

“Moth Flight!” 

Bleary with sleep, she struggled free of her dream. 
She could feel Micah, warm against her. She shook her 


head, clearing her thoughts. She was in the 
ThunderClan camp. Soft dawn light crept into the 
shelter of the fallen tree where they’d made their nest. 

“Moth Flight!” Someone was calling her from the 
clearing. 

“I'm coming!” She scrambled onto her paws and 
hurried out. 

Spotted Fur stood in the middle, gazing desperately 
around. His ears pricked as he saw her. “There you 
are!” 

“What’s happened?” Fear stabbed her belly. What 
had sent him here at dawn? 

“You said you’d be with RiverClan!” There was 
reproach in his mew. “River Ripple told me you were 
here.” His gaze flicked past her as fur brushed 
beneath the jutting branch of the fallen tree. “Micah.” 
Spotted Fur’s hackles lifted as the yellow tom slid out 
behind Moth Flight. 

Moth Flight flicked her tail impatiently. “What’s 
happened?” 

The WindClan tom looked away from Micah. 
“Rocky’s sick!” 

Moth Flight frowned. “Is he coughing again?” 


“No,” Spotted Fur told her. “He’s burning hot and 
he’s talking nonsense!” 

“Has he been eating catmint?” 

“Reed Tail says he’s only had tansy,” Spotted Fur 
told her. 

Thunder slid from the lichen draping the entrance 
to his den. “What's going on?” He stared at Spotted 
Fur. 

“We need Moth Flight,” Spotted Fur told him. 

Around the camp, cats were beginning to stir. 
Apple Blossom peeked out of the bramble den. 
Lightning Tail ducked from under a spreading yew, 
Leaf at his tail. 

Lightning Tail narrowed his eyes as he saw 
Spotted Fur. “How did you find your way into the 
camp?” 

“How do you think?” Spotted Fur snorted. “I 
followed my nose, of course. Do you think 
ThunderClan paw prints don’t smell?” 

Thunder stepped forward, his ears twitching 
crossly. “You’re disturbing my Clan.” 

“Pm just here to fetch Moth Flight.” Spotted Fur 
glared at the ThunderClan leader. “One of our 


Clanmates is sick. We need her.” 

Heat washed Moth Flight’s pelt. Did Spotted Fur 
have to be rude? Thunder and his Clanmates had been 
so kind. 

Cloud Spots nosed his way from the ferns, a roll of 
herbs dangling from his mouth. He crossed the clearing 
and dropped them at Moth Flight’s paws. “Take 
these,” he told her. “They’re some of the herbs we 
gathered. They might be some help.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him gratefully, then dipped 
her head to Thunder. “Thank you for letting us stay.” 

Thunder’s eyes glowed with warmth. “Send my 
regards to Wind Runner and Gorse Fur.” 

“I will” She snatched up the herb bundle and 
headed for the gorse barrier. Spotted Fur followed. 

“Wait for me!” Micah hurried after them. 

Spotted Fur glanced at the yellow tom. “We don’t 
need you.” 

I do! Moth Flight grunted crossly, the herb bundle 
muffling her mew. 

“Two medicine cats are better than one,” Micah 
insisted. 

Spotted Fur shot Moth Flight a glance. He must 


have seen the anger in her gaze. “Okay,” he snapped, 
ducking through the gorse barrier. “I guess you can 
come too.” 

“Great! See you soon, Cloud Spots!” Micah called 
over his shoulder. “Take care of Pink Eyes!” 

Moth Flight followed Spotted Fur out of camp and 
stopped at the bottom of the cliff. Spotted Fur was 
already scanning the rock face. “Follow me.” He 
hopped onto the lowest ledge and began to lead a 
winding route up the cliff. 


By the time they reached the WindClan camp, 
Moth Flight was out of breath. Her tongue burned with 
herb juices that had seeped out as she gripped the 
bundle between her jaws. They’d hared over the last 
stretch of grass and burst into the hollow as the sun 
lifted above the distant forest. Sunshine flooded the 
clearing. 

Moth Flight raced toward her den. She could hear 
Micah’s paws thrumming behind her. 

Gorse Fur watched them pass, surprise glittering in 
his eyes. Dust Muzzle and Willow Tail leaped to their 
paws. Jagged Peak stared from his den, Holly pacing 
in the shadows behind. Moth Flight felt her pelt prickle 


as their gaze followed Micah. Why did they look so 
uneasy? 

“Wait!” Wind Runner’s yowl sounded across the 
camp. Moth Flight skidded to a halt. 

Her mother was stalking across the tussocks, 
staring at Micah. “What’s he doing here?” 

Moth Flight dropped the herbs. “He’s come to 
help!” 

“I thought I told you I didn’t want him in the 
camp!” Wind Runner halted. 

Moth Flight faced her. “Rocky’s sick and Micah's 
a medicine cat.” 

Wind Runner didn’t blink. “Can’t you heal him by 
yourself?” 

“I don’t know.” Moth Flight held her ground. She 
fought the urge to drop her gaze as Wind Runner 
glared at her. Rocky needed help. 

Wind Runner’s tail twitched ominously “There was 
an incident while you were away.” 

Moth Flight tensed. “What happened?” 

“A moor rabbit was found in SkyClan’s territory,” 
Wind Runner told her. 

Micah pricked his ears. 


Wind Runner met his gaze accusingly. “Clearly, 
your Clan is stealing prey from our land.” 

Micah shrugged. “How do you know it didn’t just 
stray across the border by itself?” 

Wind Runner lashed her tail “Willow Tail said 
she’d seen SkyClan cats on the moor earlier.” 

Micah flashed a look at the pale tabby she-cat, 
who watched through narrowed eyes from beside Dust 
Muzzle. “That doesn’t prove anything.” 

“It proves SkyClan can’t be trusted,” Wind Runner 
snarled. 

Moth Flight stepped between her mother and 
Micah. “I trust Micah!” she growled. “I need his 
help.” 

Wind Runner’s ears twitched. “One day, you’re 
going to have to stand on your own four paws.” 

“One day I will But not today.” Moth Flight 
grabbed the herb bundle and marched to her den, 
Micah at her heels. 

Inside, Rocky was shivering in his nest. His matted 
fur clung to his frame. He looked old and weak. Moth 
Flight’s heart quickened. 

Reed Tail and Swift Minnow crouched beside him. 


“How long has he been like this?” Moth Flight 
asked Reed Tail. 

“He took a turn for the worse last night.” 

The old tom writhed in the heather, his eyes rolling. 
“When will leafbare end?” he gasped. “It's so cold!” 

How did he get so sick? Is he dying? Thoughts 
racing, Moth Flight dropped the herbs and thrust her 
muzzle close to his. Warmth pulsed from his nose. 
Panic flashed through her. What do I do first? Words 
came. “We need to cool him down.” Dappled Pelt had 
warned her that fevers could be deadly. She turned to 
Swift Minnow. “Go and find as much moss as you can 
carry and soak it in a puddle, then bring it back.” 

“I'm so cold!” Rocky’s teeth chattered as Swift 
Minnow raced from the den. 

“What can J do?” Reed Tail asked. 

“Go with her.” 

“Don't you need me here?” Reed Tail frowned 
anxiously. 

‘Tve got Micah,” Moth Flight told him. “We’ve 
learned a lot since we left.” 

Reed Tail nodded and headed out of the den. 

Moth Flight hooked a claw through the grass stem 


that gripped her bundle and snapped it open. The 
leaves unrolled and herb scents bathed her nose. She 
stared at them, panic pricking her paws. Which one is 
which? What are they for? Her thoughts whirled as 
she desperately tried to recall Cloud Spots’s training. 
“Come on,” she hissed to herself under her breath. 
“Remember!” 

Micah’s pelt brushed hers. “Feverfew might help,” 
he murmured. 

Feverfew! Of course! But which one is it? She 
scanned the leaves, her thoughts tumbling over one 
another. Then she recognized the delicate scalloped 
leaves that Cloud Spots had helped her pick yesterday. 

“Rocky!” She spoke to the tom sternly, hoping he’d 
understand. “I need you to swallow some leaves, 
okay?” 

He stared at her through clouded eyes, shivering. 

“Do you think you can do that?” If Rocky chewed 
them and spat them out, they’d be wasted. She’d have 
to return to the forest to fetch more, and there wasn’t 
time. 

Rocky stared at her blankly. 

Micah leaned forward and rested his muzzle on 


Rocky’s head. “It’s just like eating prey,” he murmured 
softly. 

Rocky grew still. “Like eating prey,” he echoed. 

Moth Flight lifted the feverfew to Rocky’s lips with 
a hooked claw. “Just swallow these and you'll feel a 
bit better.” 

Micah lapped the old tom’s head. “Just a few 
leaves,” he soothed. 

Obediently Rocky nibbled the herb from Moth 
Flight’s claws. 

“Come on,” Micah urged gently. “They’ll go down 
easy.” 

Relief washed Moth Flight’s pelt as Rocky lapped 
the leaves down. She stared gratefully at Micah. 
“Thank you.” 

“Sick cats are like kits,’ he told her. “A little 
gentleness goes a long way.” 

Moth Flight gazed at Rocky as he slumped deeper 
into his nest. “What's wrong with him? He's not 
coughing anymore.” 

“Listen to his chest,’ Micah suggested. “Even 
when Tiny Branch stopped coughing, I could hear him 
wheezing inside.” 


Moth Flight leaned into the nest, relieved to feel 
less warmth seeping from Rocky’s pelt. At least the 
feverfew was working. She pressed her ear to his rib 
cage and listened. It sounded as though water was 
bubbling up inside. She sat up, alarmed. “He’s 
drowning, like Drizzle!” 

Micah’s eyes widened. “He can’t be. He hasn’t 
swallowed any water.” 

“There’s water in his chest!” Moth Flight gasped. 
“T can hear it.” 

Micah leaned down and listened, his eyes dark 
with worry as he straightened. “There must be 
infection inside.” 

Moth Flight’s belly felt hollow. “What can we do?” 
She stared desperately at Micah. Then she 
remembered what Cloud Spots had told them on their 
way home from the Moonstone. “The tree!” She 
stared at Micah. “The one with the oozing sap! On 
your territory!” 

“Of course!” Micah lifted his tail. “Cloud Spots 
said it’d cure any cough. Surely it would cure Rocky’s 
chest infection!” 

“Do you know where it is?” 


“Yes!” 

“You’re brilliant!” Moth Flight pressed her muzzle 
against Micah’s cheek, purring. She drew back. 
“Where is it?” 

He nodded. “I took Acorn Fur looking for it. It 
wasn’t hard to find. Its sap smells as strong as pine, 
but sweeter.” 

“We must go there now!” Moth Flight’s paws 
itched. 

“We?” Micah hesitated. “Perhaps I should go 
alone. Wind Runner won’t want you going to SkyClan 
territory.” 

“Im coming with you!” She had to see where the 
tree was. One day her Clan might depend on it. And 
Rocky needed it now. She lifted her chin. Wind 
Runner wasn’t going to stop her from being the best 
medicine cat she could be. “We won’t tell Wind 
Runner where we’re going. Let’s hurry.” She glanced 
at Rocky, who was worryingly still, his flanks hardly 
moving. 

Micah followed her gaze, then nodded. “Come 
on.” He hared out of the den. Moth Flight raced after 
him. They crossed the clearing in a few bounds. 


“Where are you going?” Dust Muzzle’s mew 
echoed after them as they headed through the 
entrance. 

“We won’t be long!” Moth Flight called back 
evasively. 

They raced down the moorside, Moth Flight taking 
the lead and burning trails through the heather. She 
reached the SkyClan border, her chest on fire. “Which 
way?” 

Micah pelted past her. “Follow me.” 

Moth Flight chased him through the wall of ferns 
and around a clump of brambles. He cleared a rotting 
log in one bound. She scrambled over it and kept 
running, digging in her paws to catch up as he 
disappeared over a rise. She followed, her heart 
lurching as the ground opened into a ditch. Her 
forepaws slipped over the edge. She pushed hard with 
her hind legs and soared over the gap. Landing heavily, 
she sent leaves swirling behind her. Micah was still 
running and she chased after him, determined not to 
lose sight. He swerved past an ancient oak and 
followed a gully that cut into a glade. The trees thinned 
and sunlight streamed in. Bluebells misted the ground, 


turning the forest floor purple. 

“This is it!” Micah slowed and circled a tall tree at 
the bottom of the glade. “The bark at the base is too 
old,” he meowed. “T’I have to climb to the top where 
there are tender stems.” 

Moth Flight scrambled to a halt, her heart 
pounding. “It’s so tall! Can you climb trees?” 

“T don’t know! I’ve never tried.” Micah peered up 
through the leafy branches. “It can’t be harder than 
the barn ladder.” 

“It’s a lot higher.” Anxiety wormed beneath Moth 
Flight’s pelt. She’d never climbed a tree. On the moor, 
prey lived among the gorse and heather. 

“Once I get to the first branch, PI be okay.” 
Micah reached up with his forepaws and hooked his 
claws into the bark. Shards flaked away and showered 
around him. 

“I'm coming with you.” Moth Flight was not letting 
him try this alone. 

“No. I need to concentrate. If you climb up, PI be 
distracted because I’ll be worrying about you.” Micah 
looked at her. “You stay here and PI drop the bark 
down to you.” 


Moth Flight blinked at him uncertainly. “Are you 
sure we can’t just scrape the bark away here?” She 
nodded toward the peeling wood. 

“Tt’s as dry as a bone.” He leaped up, digging his 
hind claws in and scooting toward a branch jutting a 
few tail-lengths above his head. 

“Be careful!” Moth Flight called, her breath 
quickening as she watched him scramble higher. 

Grunting, he hauled himself onto the lowest branch. 
“This is easy!” he called down. 

Moth Flight screwed up her eyes as crumbs of 
bark drifted down like snowflakes. “Don’t forget 
you’re not a squirrel!” 

“I won't.” Micah craned his neck, peering up 
toward the next branch. Reaching up, he clung to the 
trunk and hauled himself higher. 

Moth Flight paced the bottom of the tree. Be 
careful! 

Ferns swished behind her. She glanced over her 
shoulder. 

“What are you doing here?” Clear Sky stalked into 
the glade, his broad shoulders rippling. An angry snarl 
curled his lip. 


“We need medicine for Rocky,’ Moth Flight 
explained. “He’s really sick.” 

“Don’t you have herbs on the moor?” Clear Sky 
stopped a whisker from her nose. 

She backed away, shocked by the menace in his 
mew. 

“We need sap from this tree.” She glanced toward 
Micah. Leaves shivered around him, high among the 
branches. 

Clear Sky jerked his muzzle up. “Is that my 
medicine cat?” 

Yellow fur showed between the leaves as Micah 
climbed higher. 

“He’s helping me,” Moth Flight explained. 

“Get off my land,” Clear Sky hissed at her. 

Moth Flight stiffened. “I’m not hunting!” 

“WindClan seem to think that borders only work 
one way!” 

“That’s not true.” Moth Flight’s hackles rose. “It’s 
SkyClan who’s been stealing moor prey!” 

Clear Sky’s blue gaze turned to ice. His pelt lifted 
along his spine. 

Moth Flight froze, wishing she hadn’t spoken. She 


backed away feeling suddenly vulnerable. “I’m just a 
medicine cat,” she mewed. “I only want to get sap to 
cure Rocky! As soon as Micah finds some bark, PI 
take it and leave.” 

“You're not taking anything from SkyClan 
territory,’ Clear Sky snarled. 

“But Rocky might die without it!” 

“That’s not my problem!” 

Moth Flight couldn’t believe her ears. How could 
any cat be so cruel? 

“Moth Flight?” Micah’s mew sounded from high 
among the branches. “Are you okay?” 

Clear Sky glanced upward. “She will be. If she 
goes home.” 

Leaves shivered on a branch and Micah stuck out 
his head. “Clear Sky? What are you doing here?” 

“It's my territory!” Clear Sky yowled. “Or had you 
forgotten?” 

Micah blinked at him. “Of course not, but we need 
to get some sap for R—” 

Clear Sky cut him off. “Stop playing the hero for 
your little WindClan friend. Your loyalty is to me. Get 
down from there!” 


‘Tm a medicine cat,” Micah called back. “It’s my 
duty to cure cats.” 

“It's your duty to cure your Clanmates,” Clear Sky 
hissed. “Not every cat you meet.” 

Anger flared in Moth Flight’s belly. “We can’t let 
cats die, just because they belong to a different Clan!” 

Clear Sky narrowed his eyes. “Are you telling me 
how to lead my Clan?” 

“Someone needs to!” Moth Flight snapped. 
“You're a fox-heart!” 

Eyes flashing with rage, Clear Sky lashed out and 
raked her muzzle. 

Shocked, she recoiled. 

“Leave her alone!” Micah began to climb down. 

“I will if she gets out of here,” Clear Sky snarled. 

“Stay where you are, Micah!” Moth Flight dug her 
claws into the earth. She forced her mew not to 
tremble. “Rocky needs the sap. I can’t let him die.” 

Brown fur showed at the top of the glade. Red 
Claw! Moth Flight spotted him with a spark of relief. 
Perhaps he could talk some sense into his leader. 

The SkyClan tom padded down the slope and 
stopped beside Clear Sky. “Is WindClan trying to start 


another fight?” His gaze swept Moth Flight, cold with 
disdain. The hope Moth Flight had felt at his arrival 
dimmed. 

Above, a branch shook. “I’m coming down!” 
Micah called. 

“No!” Moth Flight ignored the fear sparking 
beneath her pelt. “Rocky needs the bark.” She 
narrowed her eyes, glaring defiantly at Clear Sky. “You 
can do what you like to me. I’m not leaving.” 

Red Claw glanced uneasily at Clear Sky. “She’s 
hardly more than a kit.” 

“There’s no need to hurt her.” Clear Sky lifted his 
gaze to Micah. “Stop him from getting the bark. She 
can return to her camp, but she'll go with empty 
paws.” 

Red Claw nodded and raced for the tree. Leaping, 
he clung to the bark and pulled himself onto the first 
branch. 

“Watch out, Micah!” Moth Flight wailed. “Red 
Claw’s coming!” 

A growl rumbled ominously in Clear Sky’s throat. 
“T knew I should never have taken him in.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him. “But he cured your 


kit!” 

“Acorn Fur could have cured Tiny Branch.” 

“No she couldn’t!” Moth Flight spat back. “She 
knew nothing about healing until Micah came and 
taught her.” 

Clear Sky’s gaze didn’t move from the tree. He 
was watching Red Claw scramble through the 
branches. Micah was still climbing, close to the top 
now. 

Moth Flight's chest swelled with rage. “You're 
lucky to have a cat like Micah in your Clan!” she 
growled. “He's the bravest and cleverest cat I’ve ever 
met.” 

“You're the clever one,” Clear Sky snarled. 
“You're here, with your paws safely on the ground. He 
thinks he’s got wings.” 

Moth Flight lifted her chin. “You’ve never given 
him a fair chance!” she growled. “He left his friends to 
help your Clan, and you treat him like a prisoner! 
You’ve made Acorn Fur spy on him! I wish he’d leave 
you and join WindClan!” 

Clear Sky turned on her. “No one leaves my Clan 
without permission!” 


Brambles trembled at the top of the slope. Willow 
Tail burst out, her pelt bushed. “What’s going on 
here?” She bounded down the slope, pushing herself 
between Moth Flight and Clear Sky. 

Clear Sky stared at her. “Another WindClan cat! 
Can’t you smell boundaries?” 

Willow Tail nudged Moth Flight away and faced 
the SkyClan leader. “I was worried about Moth Flight 
when I smelled her trail cross the border. I wanted to 
make sure she was okay.” 

“Tm fine,” Moth Flight told her. “It’s Micah who's 
in trouble.” She nodded toward Red Claw, who was 
only a few tail-lengths behind Micah. “He’s trying to 
stop Micah from getting the bark we need to cure 
Rocky!” 

Willow Tail’s eyes blazed with anger. “Red Claw! I 
might have known. He was trouble when we were 
rogues together and he’s still trouble now.” Pelt 
bushing, she raced for the tree and scooted up it, as 
nimble as a squirrel. Leaves showered down as she 
scrambled up the trunk. 

As she disappeared among the leaves, a lower 
branch trembled and Micah stuck his head out. A long 


strip of bark hung from his jaws. Scrambling onto the 
next branch down, he leaped for the trunk and dropped 
tail-first toward the ground. Landing lightly, he hurried 
toward Moth Flight and laid the bark at her paws. It 
glistened in the sunshine, sap oozing from its flesh. “T 
got it!” 

Delight fizzed beneath her pelt. “Thank you!” She 
pressed her nose against his cheek. 

Clear Sky hissed. “How dare you!” Tail lashing, he 
kicked the bark away. 

“No!” Moth Flight leaped after it, trying to rescue 
it before leaf litter soiled the precious sap. 

Clear Sky faced Micah, ears flat. “I actually 
believed that you might become one of the Clan,” he 
spat. “But you can’t be trusted.” His gaze flicked to 
Moth Flight. “How can you steal for WindClan?” 

“It’s not stealing!” Micah faced him. “Herbs 
belong to all cats.” 

A screech sounded above them. 

“Murderer!” Willow Tail’s cry rang out across the 
forest. 

“Thief!” Red Claw shrieked back. 

High up, the leaves exploded around the fighting 


cats. 

Micah jerked his muzzle up. “They’ll kill each 
other!” Spraying earth behind him, he leaped toward 
the tree and hauled himself into the branches. “Take 
the bark to Rocky!” he called back to Moth Flight. 

Moth Flight froze. J cant leave! Not until Micah 
was safe. “Come back!” she wailed. Let them kill 
each other if they want! Guilt flared through her. She 
was meant to protect cats, not wish them dead! Her 
paws were rooted to the ground as Micah’s yellow pelt 
flashed among the leaves. He swarmed upward, 
toward the trembling branches where Red Claw and 
Willow Tail fought. 

Brown fur crashed through the leaves. Red Claw 
swung from a branch for a moment before scrambling 
back on. Willow Tail balanced farther along, her hind 
paws trembling as she lashed out, blow after blow, with 
her forepaws. Red Claw backed away, the end of the 
branch only a tail-length behind him. It dipped 
perilously as he retreated from Willow Tail’s punishing 
swipes. 

“Stop!” Micah’s mew rang out behind them. 

Moth Flight strained to see him. She could make 


out his yellow pelt among the green leaves. He was 
moving slowly along the branch. “Stop!” he ordered 
again. 

Willow Tail glanced at him. “Stay out of this,” she 
snarled. “It’s not your battle.” 

“It’s not any cat’s battle!” Micah called. “I’ve got 
the bark. Moth Flight’s taking it to Rocky. There’s no 
point in fighting now.” 

Red Claw stopped near the end of the branch, his 
tail thrashing wildly as he fought to keep his balance. 
“Let’s at least fight like cats, not crows! On the ground 
where cats are meant to be!” 

Willow Tail narrowed her eyes. “You always were 
a mouse-heart!” She advanced slowly toward the 
SkyClan tom. 

“Stop!” Micah followed her along the branch, 
lifting a paw to grab for her tail. He wobbled, fear 
flashing in his eyes. 

Moth Flight gasped. “Be careful!” 

Micah dug his claws into the branch, clinging like a 
vine. 

The branch creaked beneath him. Dry bark 
fluttered down like dust. 


Fear flared through Moth Flight as she noticed that 
the leaves around Red Claw were withered and 
brown. With a jolt, she realized that the branch they 
were on was dying. “Get back!” she cried. It creaked 
again. “The branch is rotten!” 

Beside her, Clear Sky backed away. 

A crack split the air. The world seemed to slow as 
the branch bent, then snapped, the wood screaming as 
it tore away from the tree and dropped. 

She saw Red Claw fall, flailing. Willow Tail 
dropped beside him, her legs thrashing the air. Red 
Claw caught hold of a branch and swung, forepaws 
clinging hard. Willow Tail hit the bough below, yowling 
with shock as she scrambled to cling on. 

The rotten branch hurtled down and smashed onto 
the ground, shards of wood strafing Moth Flight’s 
flank. She screwed up her eyes, scrabbling away as 
the world seemed to explode around her. 

Then silence fell. 

A moment later, leaves rustled overhead and 
Willow Tail huffed high above. 

“Micah?” Moth Flight blinked away the splinters 
and gazed into the branches. Red Claw had hauled 


himself onto his paws and was trembling. Willow Tail 
lay frozen, her paws wrapped tightly around the bough 
that had broken her fall. Moth Flight scanned the 
leaves around them, trying to glimpse Micah’s pelt. 

A low moan sounded from below the tree. 

Moth Flight dragged her gaze toward the fallen 
branch. 

Among the shriveled leaves and shattered wood, 
she saw yellow fur. 

Dread hollowed her belly. “Micah?” Her throat 
tightened. Trembling, she crept closer. Don t let it be 
him. Once more, she looked up, hoping to see Micah 
gazing down from the tree, his eyes bright with relief. 

The moan sounded again. 

Moth Flight felt sick. She forced herself closer, 
until she could make out Micah’s twisted body, his 
hindquarters crushed beneath the splintered wood. 

His head moved. 

He 5 alive! Hope soared in her chest. 

Then his pain-wracked gaze sought hers and held 
it. She could see his hopeless agony. Grief tore at her 
heart as she crouched beside him. “What can I do?” 
she whispered hoarsely. 


“Let me feel your breath on my cheek.” His mew 
was so weak that she had to lean closer to hear. He 
sighed as her muzzle touched his. “Moth Flight, I don’t 
want to leave you.” 

“Then don’t!” Desperation filled her plea. “We can 
drag you out.” 

“No, Moth Flight. My spine is crushed.” 

“You don’t know that!” 

“I can feel only pam.” He reached for her gaze 
again, his eyes clouding. 

A sob choked her mew. “I can wrap you in 
comfrey. Cloud Spots says it can mend—” 

“Moth Flight.” Micah interrupted, gasping. “Thank 
you for letting me come with you to Highstones. And 
for bringing me to the Clans.” 

Horror pressed at the edge of Moth Flight’s 
thoughts. “Don’t say that!” He was talking like this 
was the end. 

“I'm glad I spent this time with you.” 

“No!” He mustn’t die! He couldn t! 

“You made sense of my life,’ he rasped. “You 
showed me my destiny.” 

“This can’t be your destiny!” Moth Flight fought 


for breath, her thoughts spiraling into panic. “It’s not 
fair!” 

“T love you.” 

“Then don’t leave me!” 

“TI see you again.” His eyes flickered. “Next 
half-moon maybe.” 

Moth Flight felt a wave of relief. But then she 
realized what he meant: Next half-moon. He means 
he’ll see me from StarClan! “No!” The ground 
swayed beneath Moth Flight’s paws. She thrust her 
muzzle against Micah’s, longing to feel his warm 
breath. But she felt nothing. Jerking away, she saw his 
gaze light for a moment, then grow dull, as though dusk 
had swept through the forest and swallowed the 
sunshine. 

“Micah.” Collapsing, Moth Flight pressed her 
cheek to his. “Don’t go. I love you!” 





CHAPTER 22 
+ 


Moth Flight lifted her head blearily, not sure if 
she’d slept. Dawn light filtered through the trees 
above. “I forgot about Rocky,” she said, but her voice 
came out hoarse and creaky. “I didn’t take the bark to 
him.” 

“Reed Tail took it,” Wind Runner’s voice replied. 
“Rocky’s doing okay. Don’t worry about anything, 
Moth Flight.” 

She smelled Wind Runner’s scent and realized that 
her mother’s warm flank was pressed against hers. 
Swift Minnow was on her other side. Moth Flight 
wondered how long they’d been there. A chilly mist 
swirled around the forest floor. 

Dread swelled at the edge of her thoughts and she 
wondered, for a moment, why. Then she remembered. 

Anguish struck her like a wave. She struggled to 
breathe. 

Micah’s muzzle was still a whisker from hers, cold 
and stiff. 

She blinked at it numbly. Grief had dragged her 


through the long, dark night. Foxes had screeched from 
the depth of the woods. Owls had glided, curious, 
through the glade, the breeze from their silent wings 
the only clue they had passed. Paws had scuffed the 
forest floor as cats came and went, dipping their head 
in respect to Micah, exchanging sympathies in hushed 
mews. 

“It’s time we buried him.” Wind Runner’s mew cut 
through Moth Flight’s grief like claws. 

Panic seized her. “No.” They couldn’t lay him 
deep in the earth and cut him off from sunlight forever. 
“I need to see him.” 

Wind Runner got to her paws and touched her 
muzzle to Moth Flight’s head. “Foxes will come for his 
body if we don’t.” 

Moth Flight blinked at her. Why was her mother 
being so cruel? 

Swift Minnow shifted beside her. “Burying him will 
show our respect.” 

Wind Runner nodded. “He’ll be safe in the earth.” 

Anguish slammed into Moth Flight. “But what 
about me?” J need him. 

“You still have your family,’ murmured Wind 


Runner. 

“And your Clanmates,” Swift Minnow added. 

Moth Flight leaped to her paws and glared at them. 
“T don’t want you!” she hissed. “I want him!” 

They exchanged looks, then Wind Runner signaled 
to some cat with her tail. Gorse Fur padded toward 
them, with Nettle, Blossom, and Acorn Fur following 
close behind. The splintered branch had already been 
cleared away, leaving Micah’s body exposed to the 
brightening day. 

Nettle thrust his gray muzzle beneath Micah’s 
flank, heaving him onto his back. Gorse Fur and 
Blossom crowded beside him, helping to take the 
weight of Micah’s body. Acorn Fur slid among them, 
pressing her shoulder beneath Micah’s hindquarters. 
Together, they carried the body from the glade. 

Moth Flight watched them wade through the 
bluebells, the purple blossoms sweeping Micah’s 
matted pelt. 

Wind Runner nudged her gently forward. “Come 
and say good-bye.” 

Moth Flight’s paws felt as heavy as stone as she 
followed the cats out of the glade. Daylight was 


beginning to glimmer among the leaves overhead as 
the sun lifted higher. At the top of the rise she saw 
cleared earth and a hole dug deep into it. Clear Sky 
stood at its head, Star Flower at his side. SkyClan 
gathered around them as Nettle and Gorse Fur paused 
at the edge of the hole. 

Moth Flight blinked at the solemnity in Clear Sky’s 
gaze. Didn’t he realize that he’d caused this, with his 
fox-hearted craving for borders? 

Acorn Fur’s eyes were misted with grief. She 
pressed against Birch while Quick Water, Alder, Fern 
Leaf, and Thorn stared bleakly at Micah’s body. Red 
Claw hung back behind Clear Sky, his gaze fixed on his 
paws. Moth Flight felt anger flash in her belly, eclipsing 
her grief for a moment. You killed him! You and your 
stupid fight! She glanced around, wondering if Willow 
Tail had dared come. 

The pale tabby she-cat was watching half hidden 
behind Dust Muzzle. Moth Flight glared at her, anger 
seething beneath her pelt. “Don’t skulk behind my 
brother!” she spat. “Come and see what you’ve 
done.” She jerked her muzzle toward Micah, lying 
stiffly on Nettle’s back. 


Moth Flight felt Wind Runner’s pelt brush her 
flank. “It was an accident,” she murmured. 

“It didn’t have to happen! If they hadn’t been 
fighting”—Moth Flight glared at Red Claw—‘Micah 
would still be alive.” 

Clear Sky caught her gaze and returned it steadily. 
“Micah died because he was brave. It was a noble 
death.” 

“He didn’t die because he was brave!” Moth Flight 
stared at him, stunned. “He died because you sent Red 
Claw after him.” 

Clear Sky didn’t blink. “He chose to climb back up 
the tree,’ he meowed simply. “He could have stayed 
on the ground.” 

Moth Flight’s mind whirled. Was Clear Sky 
blaming Micah? 

Star Flower stepped forward, her emerald gaze 
round with sympathy. “You are angry,” she mewed. “A 
cat you loved has died. But what is the point of 
blaming Clear Sky? Or Red Claw or Willow Tail? The 
tree was rotten. Do you blame the tree?” 

“Yes!” Moth Flight’s pelt bristled. “And Rocky’s 
cough for sending us there! And Clear Sky! And Red 


Claw and Willow Tail!” Her thoughts seemed to whirl 
as rage flared. “And Micah for being so dumb!” 

Star Flower blinked at her. “Would Micah have 
blamed anyone?” 

I’m glad I spent this time with you. His dying 
words echoed in her mind. Shame washed her pelt. He 
could have hated me for bringing him here . . . but 
instead, he was grateful. She felt the eyes of the 
other cats fixed on her and backed away, grief welling 
once more in her chest as her anger withered. 

Wind Runner brushed her cheek with her muzzle. 
“Let’s say good-bye to Micah kindly.” 

Nettle crouched and let Micah’s body slip from his 
shoulders. It dropped into the hole with a thud. Clear 
Sky stepped forward and looked into the darkness. 

No! Moth Flight closed her eyes and pictured 
Micah on the stepping-stones, the river sparkling 
around him. That night, as they’d curled in their nest in 
Dappled Pelt’s den, he’d asked her to be his mate. 
While Dappled Pelt slept they’d planned a future in 
soft whispers. They’d told each other that StarClan 
would find a way for them to be together; they could 
be medicine cats to both Clans, traveling between 


them, but always at each other’s side. 

Moth Flight felt her mother’s flank pressing against 
hers. She watched as Clear Sky pushed a pawful of 
earth into the hole. Would either leader have let them 
live that way? Would StarClan? 

She’d never know now. 

Her throat tightened. A wave of sadness flooded 
her, so strong that the ground swayed beneath her. 
Wind Runner pressed harder against her. Gorse Fur 
padded to her other side and pushed his shoulder 
beneath hers. 

Clear Sky lifted his muzzle. “I had doubts about 
taking Micah in,” he meowed. “When he cured Tiny 
Branch, I regretted my promise to let him stay. He was 
a farm cat, sleek from easy living, too sure of himself 
to be trusted. I didn’t think he had any place in a 
Clan.” 

Nettle nodded. Quick Water murmured in 
agreement. 

Clear Sky went on. “But I was wrong.” He gazed 
sadly into the grave. “He devoted every thought and 
every moment to his Clanmates.” His gaze flitted from 
Nettle to Quick Water. “All of us who doubted him 


came to respect his intelligence and value his 
kindness.” The SkyClan cats nodded solemnly. 

Star Flower moved closer to the SkyClan leader as 
he continued. “I respected Micah. He stood up to me. 
He did what he thought was right, not what would 
please me. He died doing what he thought was right.” 
He looked at Moth Flight. “He had to climb back into 
the tree; he was being true to himself. He died as he 
lived—caring about others, bravely and without 
hesitation. We were lucky to have known him, even for 
so short a while.” 

The forest seemed to spin around Moth Flight. She 
felt Wind Runner and Gorse Fur press closer, 
supporting her as her paws buckled beneath her. 

Clear Sky’s gaze was still on her. “Will you speak 
for him?” 

“I can’t—” Moth Flight faltered. Grief seemed to 
be tearing her heart in two. The other cats stared at 
her expectantly. She glanced into the hole, glimpsing a 
flash of Micah’s pelt where the rising sun’s rays 
pierced the depths. “May StarClan light your path.” 

She blinked, surprised at herself. The words 
seemed to appear in her mouth and roll from her 


tongue as though she had spoken them countless times 
before. 

“May you find good hunting, swift running, and 
shelter when you sleep.” 

Murmurs of approval rippled around the other cats. 

Moth Flight backed away. 

Wind Runner was watching her, eyes bright with 
worry. 

“I'm okay,” Moth Flight breathed. “I just need to 
be alone.” She turned and fled back to the glade, 
skidding to a halt as she saw the scattered remains of 
the splintered branch. She turned, her gaze flashing 
wildly around the forest, unsure where to go. 

“Moth Flight.” A gentle mew sounded from the 
trees behind her. 

Pebble Heart padded over the rise. “I came to pay 
my respects.” 

Moth Flight glanced past him, toward the grave, 
hidden beyond the crest of the hollow. “Are they 
burying him?” She pictured the earth tumbling over 
Micah’s poor, beautiful, broken body. 

“He is safe now.” Pebble Heart stopped beside 
her. “You should go home and mourn.” 


“No!” Alarm jolted through her. She didn’t want to 
be like Slate, moving around the hollow like a shadow, 
pitied by her Clanmates. She didn’t want to see her 
den. Micah had been there. They’d been so excited 
when they’d remembered the tree bark. Her breath 
quickened. Rocky would still be there. How could she 
take care of him? How could she take care of any 
cat? Her thoughts tumbled, confused. She’d never be 
able to remember any herb. Every cat would be 
depending on her. She struggled for breath. 

“Moth Flight.” Pebble Heart’s soft mew sounded 
through the roar of blood in her ears. “Eat this.” An 
aromatic scent touched her nose. The ShadowClan 
medicine cat had laid a sprig of tiny leaves at her 
paws. “It’s thyme. It will calm you.” 

Blindly, Moth Flight leaned down and grabbed the 
sprig, chewing it as the world seemed to spin around 
her. Its pungent flavors bathed her tongue, pulling her 
thoughts away from the spiraling terror that filled her 
mind. Slowly she felt her heart begin to slow. She 
blinked, the blurred bluebells brightening around her. 

“Come back to my camp,’ Pebble Heart 
murmured. “Reed Tail can look after WindClan for a 


while. You can have peace to grieve until you feel 
strong enough to return to your Clanmates.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him, soothed by his amber 
gaze. “Will Tall Shadow let me stay?” 

“Yes. If I ask her,” Pebble Heart told her. 

Wind Runner’s mew sounded at the top of the 
glade. “Will Tall Shadow let you stay where?” She 
hurried down the slope, ears twitching. 

“I want Moth Flight to spend some time with 
ShadowClan,” Pebble Heart told her calmly. 

“Why?” Wind Runner bristled. “She should be with 
her kin.” 

Pebble Heart returned her gaze. “She needs to be 
away from responsibility until she’s strong enough to 
bear her grief.” 

Moth Flight looked at Wind Runner, expecting her 
mother to argue, but saw worry darken her yellow 
eyes. 

“Is this what you want?” she asked Moth Flight. 

Moth Flight nodded, strangely calm. She guessed 
the thyme must be soothing her. She leaned against 
Pebble Heart, gratitude washing her pelt. 

Pebble Heart dipped his head to Wind Runner. “T’'ll 


take her to my camp.” 

Wind Runner shifted her paws. “PI send Dust 
Muzzle to check on her soon.” 

“Not too soon,” Pebble Heart told her. “She’ll be in 
good paws. I'll take care of her until she’s strong 
enough to take care of herself.” 

Gorse Fur called from the top of the slope. “We 
should get back to the moor, Wind Runner. The Clan 
will be unsettled. They’ll need you.” 

Wind Runner touched her nose to Moth Flight’s 
cheek. “Take care.” 

Moth Flight nodded dumbly as her mother bounded 
up the slope, and then Pebble Heart began to guide her 
across the glade. He nudged her gently up the far 
slope, steering her toward a rabbit trail that cut 
between the brambles. 

With every paw step, grief jabbed at Moth Flight’s 
heart. She was walking away. She would never again 
see Micah in the forest or on the moor. She was 
leaving him behind, alone beneath the earth. 


Pebble Heart led the way into the ShadowClan 
camp, ducking through a gap in the vast bramble hedge 
into a wide, pine needle—strewn clearing. 


Juniper Branch looked up from a mouse she was 
gnawing and blinked sympathetically at Moth Flight. 
The tortoiseshell queen was looking plump, her belly 
swollen. Her mate, Raven Pelt, glanced toward Moth 
Flight, catching her eye before awkwardly snatching 
his gaze away. 

Mouse Ear, sitting on a sun-dappled patch of grass 
at the edge of the clearing, leaned closer to Mud Paws 
and murmured into his friend’s ear. “I heard she was in 
love with the farm cat.” 

Moth Flight fixed her gaze ahead. What do you 
know? She felt unreasonably angry. Micah was dead 
and these cats would never know him. It wasn’t fair. 

“Moth Flight.” Tall Shadow padded from the head 
of the clearing, her eyes soft with sympathy. 

Moth Flight stopped and stared at her paws. 
“Pebble Heart said I could stay,” she mumbled. 

Pebble Heart padded past her and leaned close to 
the ShadowClan leader. “T thought she’d grieve more 
easily here, away from anything that will stir 
memories.” 

Everything stirs memories! The sky! The wind! 
The sun! Moth Flight braced herself against a fresh 


wave of grief. 

Tall Shadow dipped her head. “Of course you can 
stay.” 

A black tom padded from a small den woven into 
the camp wall. “Moth Flight?” He padded closer, his 
ears twitching nervously. “Are you okay? Sparrow Fur 
brought us the news. I’m so sorry. I wish I’d known 
Micah better. Pebble Heart says he had the heart of a 
Tribe cat and the courage of a Clan cat.” 

“Thanks, Sun Shadow.” Moth Flight met his amber 
gaze. It was a relief to hear someone say Micah’s 
name. So long as cats spoke of him, he would never be 
forgotten. “Micah shouldn’t have died.” She flashed a 
look at Tall Shadow, wondering whether she was like 
Clear Sky and Wind Runner. Did she value borders 
more dearly than the lives of cats? 

Tall Shadow’s expression was unreadable as she 
gazed at Sun Shadow. “May Moth Flight have your 
den?” 

“Of course.” Sun Shadow glanced over his 
shoulder toward the brambles. “Should I fetch some 
fresh moss for the nest?” 

“Don’t bother.” Moth Flight brushed past him. She 


didn’t care where she lay, just so long as it was away 
from the prying gaze of the other cats. She ducked into 
the shadows, relieved to find the den cozy. Its bramble 
walls encircled a nest woven from pine sprigs. She 
climbed into it, feeling silky needles beneath her paws. 
It was surprisingly soft to curl into and she settled deep 
inside, letting the pine and bramble muffle the 
murmuring of the cats outside. 

“Will she be here long?” 

“Why did she come here?” 

Then everything fell quiet. Moth Flight imagined 
that Tall Shadow had silenced her Clanmates with a 
stare. “She came here for kindness.” 

A moment later, Pebble Heart nosed his way into 
Moth Flight’s den. He was carrying a leaf bundle in his 
jaws. As he dropped it beside Moth Flight’s nest, it 
unfurled to reveal a few tiny poppy seeds. “Dappled 
Pelt brought these for you. She says they”Il help you 
rest.” 

“She’s here?” Moth Flight peered toward the den 
entrance. 

“She didn’t stay,” Pebble Heart told her. “She says 
you need peace more than sympathy right now.” 


“How did she find me?” 

“She was taking these to the moor and met Wind 
Runner and Gorse Fur.” 

Moth Flight felt her heart prick with gratitude for 
her medicine cat friends. Except Micah isnt one of 
us anymore. She closed her eyes, frightened even to 
think. Each thought seemed to remind her of Micah. 
She wanted to block out every memory and pretend 
that he was still alive in the forest, tending to his 
Clanmates and thinking of her. She leaned over the 
side of her nest and lapped up the poppy seeds. 

Pebble Heart stiffened. “She said just two or 
three.” 

“I want to sleep until the pain stops.” Moth Flight 
gazed at him wearily. 

“PI sit with you.” 

“No. I need to be alone.” 

“Then PI check on you in a while.” 

Moth Flight tucked her nose onto her paws and 
closed her eyes. Blackness came as a relief. She 
flattened her ears, blocking out the calling of the birds 
overhead and the sound of paw steps outside the den. 
She wished the darkness would swallow her 


completely and quench the pain blazing in her heart 
and scorching deep in her belly. 

Her thoughts began to slow as the poppy took hold. 
She heard Pebble Heart’s fur brush the den entrance 
as he left, then felt herself drifting into sleep. 


She opened her eyes to find herself back at the 
Moonstone. No! Not again. Weariness dragged at her 
bones. Grief weighed in her heart like a stone. J dont 
want to dream. 

Paw steps brushed rock as two cats entered the 
cave. A small dark gray she-cat whose brilliant blue 
eyes sparkled in the gloom, and a flame-pelted tom. 

Moth Flight stared at them blankly. She didn’t even 
try to speak. They’d never hear her. This was just 
another dream, like the dream of the other blue-gray 
she-cat, and the dark tom who’d shown such scorn for 
his ancestors. She glanced up at the hole in the roof, 
unsurprised to see the edge of the moon nudging into 
view. In a few moments the Moonstone would light up 
and the spirit-cats would come. The flame-pelted tom 
crouched before the Moonstone and touched his nose 
to it. The gray she-cat stepped away and Moth Flight 
narrowed her eyes, preparing for the explosion of 


moonlight. 

When it came, she hardly flinched as the light 
blinded her. As it faded, she gazed around. Trees had 
replaced the stone walls of the cave; but this wasn’t 
ShadowClan’s forest. She was in the Fourtrees 
clearing. The flame-pelted tom stood at the foot of the 
great rock, his gray companion hanging back as stars 
swirled overhead. 

Moth Flight watched them whirl against the night 
sky, spiraling down toward the clearing. 

The flame-pelted tom backed away, his pelt 
bristling with alarm. Didn’t he know that these were 
the spirit-cats come to share with him? 

The stars spun, melting into one another as they 
neared the ground, until they blazed like white fire. 

Moth Flight blinked as cats emerged from the 
silver flames, their starry pelts more brilliant than ever. 
As they padded across the clearing, the white fire 
faded behind them. 

The flame-pelted tom blinked at them, his eyes 
lighting in recognition. He lifted his tail and Moth Flight 
saw joy warm his gaze. 

A golden tom padded forward, his thick fur like a 


mane around his head. 

The flame-pelted tom greeted him. They 
exchanged words Moth Flight could not hear. Then the 
golden tom reached out his starry muzzle and touched 
the tom’s head. 

The tom jerked as though fire seared him. 

This is just like the others. 

Moth Flight frowned. Why did she keep dreaming 
this, and always with different cats? 

A red bushy-tailed tom approached the flame- 
pelted cat next, sending another spasm through him as 
he touched his nose to the tom’s head. Then a beautiful 
silver-pelted she-cat took his place. A lithe tabby tom 
followed. His touch set the flame-pelted tom’s fur 
rippling as though he were running through wind. 

Why do I keep seeing this? Moth Flight’s paws 
itched with frustration. What does it mean? 

Four more cats approached, each one’s touch 
scorching through the tom as though it had sparked 
lightning. And yet, as each spasm ended, the tom stood 
stronger, his chin higher. 

He met the gaze of the last cat with eyes suddenly 
misted with emotion. 


Moth Flight froze as the pretty tortoiseshell padded 
closer. Micah looked at me like that. She recognized 
love in the tom’s bright green eyes. The tortoiseshell’s 
amber gaze reflected it back with such intensity that 
Moth Flight’s breath stopped in her throat. 

Grief swamped her. He's in love with a dead cat! 
As shock jolted through her, she searched the starry 
ranks. Was Micah here? Would she have a chance to 
share such a look with him? 

She recognized no cat. 

Please come! Why couldn’t she make her dreams 
do what she wanted? She could only stand by, unheard 
and unseen, and witness what she could not 
understand. 

It’s not fair! 

Her throat tightened as she saw the tortoiseshell 
stretch her muzzle toward the flame-pelted tom. 

He met her gaze, his eyes burning with joy and 
grief. 

Her touch made his pelt glow, as though filling him 
with moonlight. He leaned in to her, unflinching. 

Stop! Moth Flight backed away. She couldn’t bear 
to watch a moment longer. This all meant nothing! She 


didn’t know these cats! Why should she care? All she 
wanted was to see Micah, but she couldn’t! 

Hissing, she lashed out a forepaw and slashed 
through the vision of the tortoiseshell. It was like raking 
starlit water. The light shattered into countless ripples 
and faded from view. 

A wail welling in her throat, Moth Flight struggled 
into consciousness. Heart burning with loss, she 
blinked open her eyes into Sun Shadow’s hollow den. 





CHAPTER 23 
+ 


Moth Flight felt a paw push her shoulder. She 
struggled awake, her mouth dry, her eyes sticky with 
sleep. 

“Moth Flight?” Pebble Heart sounded worried. 
“Are you okay?” 

She lifted her head groggily and blinked at the 
dawn sunshine filtering into the den. “I’m...” 

Pebble Heart’s shoulders relaxed. “I’m not used to 
giving poppy seeds,” he admitted. “I was worried 
you'd sleep for days.” 

Moth Flight looked around, surprised by the dark 
brambles enclosing her nest. Where was the gorse? 

A sick feeling hit her belly like rotten prey. 
“Micah’s dead.” She stared at Pebble Heart, a tiny 
spark of hope flickering beneath her pelt. Perhaps 
she’d dreamed it all. 

But the medicine cat’s amber eyes glistened with 
sympathy. He leaned down and picked up a wad of 
dripping moss and laid it on the edge of her nest. “I 
thought you might be thirsty.” 


Sadness swamped Moth Flight as she remembered 
the pool in Cloud Spots’s den. Micah had still been with 
her then. She lapped at the moss, her tongue 
welcoming the moisture. 

“I brought you food too.” Pebble Heart draped a 
mouse over the side of her nest. It was still warm, 
freshly killed. 

Moth Flight wrinkled her nose. “I’m not hungry.” 

“But you must eat,” Pebble Heart reasoned. 

“Why?” Moth Flight snorted rebelliously. “If I 
starve, I can join Micah in StarClan.” 

“You mustn’t say that!” Pebble Heart’s eyes 
widened. 

“Why not?” Anger rolled deep in Moth Flight’s 
belly. 

“What about your Clanmates? And the other 
Clans?” Pebble Heart stared at her fiercely. “StarClan 
shared the secret of the Moonstone with you. You’re 
important!” 

“And Micah’s not?” Moth Flight growled. 

Pebble Heart stared at her sadly. “Perhaps he’s 
supposed to be with them.” 

“His destiny,” she muttered bitterly. She pictured 


the rolling meadows of StarClan’s hunting grounds. 
Was Micah going to spend forever chasing spirit- 
rabbits while she worked her paws to the bone taking 
care of her Clanmates? “What about me? Does 
StarClan want me to be lonely? Is that my destiny? 
Am I just here to carry out their orders? I can’t even 
get a good night’s sleep because they haunt my 
dreams! Can’t they give me any peace?” 

Pebble Heart’s eye flashed with curiosity. “They 
haunt your dreams?” he echoed. “How?” 

“ÉI dream of spirit-cats doing some dumb 
ceremony,” Moth Flight snapped. “The same thing, 
over and over again, but to different cats.” 

Pebble Heart leaned closer. “What cats?” 

“Why should I care?” Anger prickled beneath 
Moth Flight’s pelt. 

Pebble Heart nudged the dripping moss with his 
paw. “Drink some more.” 

“Stop trying to make me feel better, because you 
can’t!” 

“I know,” he soothed. “But I want to know more 
about these dreams. They might be important.” 

“Of course they’re important!” Moth Flight 


snapped. “But StarClan won’t tell me why. They just 
keep making me dream the same dream.” She lapped 
at the moss crossly. 

“Perhaps, if you describe the dream exactly, we 
can work out what it means,” Pebble Heart urged. 

Moth Flight swallowed back her anger. “I wake up 
at the Moonstone. And two cats come into the cave.” 

“Do you recognize them?” 

“No.” Moth Flight narrowed her eyes as the dream 
grew more vivid in her mind. “One of the cats sits at 
the Moonstone and, when the moonlight strikes it, the 
spirit-cats come.” 

“StarClan?” 

“I guess,” Moth Flight told him. “They have starry 
pelts but I don’t recognize any of them.” 

“Go on.” Pebble Heart’s pelt twitched along his 
spine. 

“The starry cats approach the living cat and, one at 
a time, they touch his head with their muzzle.” She 
shuddered. “It seems to hurt a lot. The real cat jerks 
like he’s been hit by lightning, but he doesn’t flinch 
away. He’s not scared. He just lets the spirit-cats 
touch him, one after another and at the end, he looks 


stronger. Kind of proud, like he’s been given a special 
gift.” 

“Ts it always a tom?” 

Moth Flight shook her head. “The first time, it was 
a she-cat. I’d seen her before in a different dream. 
She was dead and then she came back to life.” 

Pebble Heart shifted his paws, his gaze clouding 
with thought. “What gift could StarClan give a living 
cat?” 

Moth Flight shrugged. “I just know it looks painful. 
I don’t think /’d want it.” 

“Really?” Pebble Heart’s ear twitched. “But 
you 're the cat who went to Highstones and found the 
Moonstone. You’re the bravest cat I know. I think 
you’d endure anything if StarClan wished it.” 

Moth Flight returned his gaze, her heart twisting. “I 
can’t endure losing Micah.” Her mew cracked. 

Pebble Heart got to his paws. “Why don’t you 
come and visit Juniper Branch with me? She’s 
expecting Raven Pelt’s kits and I promised to check on 
her. She’s been having pains.” 

“When are the kits due?” 

“Not for another half moon.” Pebble Heart flicked 


his tail. “Join me. This will be the first litter I’ve helped 
with. We can both learn a lot.” 

Moth Flight frowned. Pebble Heart was clearly 
trying to distract her from her grief. “No.” She dug her 
paws deeper into the nest. “I’m staying here.” 

“Some fresh air might help you feel better.” 

“I don’t want to feel better.” She crouched in the 
nest, glaring at him stubbornly. 

Pebble Heart tipped his head sympathetically. 
“Okay. You rest. I guess there’s no rush.” 

Moth Flight watched him duck out of the den, 
uncertain whether she wanted to be alone. But what 
use am I to anyone like this? She tucked her nose 
between her paws and closed her eyes. Sadness 
washed over her, wave after wave until she pushed 
every thought away and sought sanctuary in sleep. 


She opened her eyes into another dream. She was 
standing in a wide meadow. The grass was wilting and 
the flowers had died. Mist swirled across the ground 
and swallowed the sky. She glanced around, anxiety 
creeping beneath her fur as she strained to see through 
the murky fog. What was hiding there? Her heart 
quickened as she saw a shape. Broad shoulders, 


pricked ears, a long tail. It was a tom. 

“Hello?” Moth Flight tasted the air warily. 

Micah’s scent washed her tongue. 

“Micah!” She raced toward the shadowy figure in 
the mist, the scent growing stronger as she neared. 
“It’s me! Moth Flight!” 

The tom didn’t turn but kept moving, swinging his 
head from side to side as though searching. 

“Micah!” She was only a tail-length away. Surely 
he could hear her! She caught up with him and dodged 
in front of him, trying desperately to catch his eye. 

He walked through her as though she were part of 
the mist. 

Her heart dropped like a stone. “No!” Rage swept 
through her. Why was she so powerless in her 
dreams? Helplessly, she watched Micah move through 
the mist, heading one way, then the other, his ears 
pricked, his mouth open. Js he looking for me? Pain 
stabbed her heart. Micah, I’m here! 

She woke, trembling, and jerked up her head. 

Sun Shadow was sitting beside her nest. “You 
were dreaming.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him, the mist from her 


dream still fogging her thoughts. “What are you doing 
here?” She pushed herself to her paws. “Do you want 
your nest back?” 

“No.” His whiskers twitched. “I thought you might 
want something to eat.” 

“Pebble Heart brought me something earlier.” She 
scanned the edge of the nest but the mouse had gone. 

“I gave it to Mouse Ear,” Sun Shadow told her. 
“He likes mice best.” 

Moth Flight’s belly rumbled. She hadn’t eaten since 
Micah died. “Did you bring me something?” She 
looked hopefully over the side of her nest, surprised to 
feel hungry. Guilt flickered beneath her fur. Her 
stomach was acting like nothing had changed. 

“Come hunting with me.” Sun Shadow nodded 
toward the den entrance where afternoon sunlight was 
turning the brambles golden. “You can catch your own 
prey.” 

Moth Flight shifted in her nest, realizing suddenly 
how stiff her legs were. Perhaps she should listen to 
the needs of her body. “I guess I could try.” She stood 
up and stretched. “I’ve never hunted in a pine forest 
before.” 


“I know a stretch where there's hardly any 
undergrowth,” Sun Shadow told her. 

“Is that good?” Moth Flight wondered where the 
prey hid. 

“There are plenty of ditches, which means we’re 
bound to find a frog or two.” 

“No, thank you.” Moth Flight wrinkled her nose. 
“T’ve eaten toad.” 

Sun Shadow snorted. “Frogs taste way better.” He 
leaned closer, eyes narrowing. “Why would you eat a 
toad?” 

Moth Flight’s pelt pricked self-consciously. She 
hopped out of her nest and headed for the entrance. 
“It’s just something I tried once.” She sniffed as she 
ducked out of the den. 

Outside, Tall Shadow was talking with Mouse Ear 
and Mud Paws in the clearmg. The ShadowClan 
leader snapped her muzzle around as she caught sight 
of Moth Flight. “How are you?” she called cheerily. 

Moth Flight blinked in the sunshine, feeling 
suddenly furless. Was everyone expecting her to act 
like she was okay now? 

Sun Shadow brushed past her and nodded to Tall 


Shadow. “Moth Flight’s agreed to go hunting with me. 
We won’t be gone long.” He nudged Moth Flight 
toward the camp entrance as Tall Shadow dipped her 
head silently. 

Moth Flight slipped out of camp, relieved to be 
away from the curious gazes of ShadowClan. Juniper 
Branch had watched her pass, stretched on a soft 
patch of grass. Raven Pelt had been sorting through 
the prey pile, glancing up to see her duck through the 
entrance. 

“This way.” Sun Shadow headed past a stretch of 
mossy ground and hopped over a fallen tree. One of 
the spindly twigs jutting from the trunk scratched Moth 
Flight’s belly as she leaped after him. She winced as 
she landed. 

“Are you hurt?” Sun Shadow halted. 

“Just a scratch.” Moth Flight didn’t care. Grazed 
flesh hurt far less than the loss of Micah. 

“Get Pebble Heart to look at it when we get 
back.” Sun Shadow started walking again. 

“I might find some horsetail and dock while we’re 
out. That should stop it getting infected.” Moth Flight 
hesitated as Micah’s words flashed in her mind. /f you 


chew dock leaves and horsetail stems into a paste, 
you can smear it deep into a wound. Fresh grief 
swept over her. 

Sun Shadow paused at the top of a pine needle— 
strewn slope and glanced over his shoulder. “Are you 
coming?” 

Moth Flight shook out her fur. “I want to go back 
to my nest.” 

“You can.” He disappeared over the rise. “After 
we’ve caught a frog.” 

Moth Flight hurried after him. 

Tall pines towered around her, shielding the sky. 
Sunlight glimmered between the branches, but the 
forest floor was cold and damp. She bounded down the 
other side of the slope and caught up with Sun Shadow 
as he reached a stretch of shady woodland rutted with 
ditches. He paused at the first and she stopped beside 
him. 

“I know what it’s like to lose the cats you love.” 
He kept his gaze fixed ahead. 

She jerked her muzzle toward him. “You do?” 

“I came from the mountains to find my father.” 
Sun Shadow appeared to be scanning the ditches, his 


eyes narrowing as he searched for movement. “He 
was dead when I got here and the cat I traveled with 
—Quiet Rain—died shortly after we arrived.” 

You didnt lose your mate, though. Moth Flight 
shifted her paws. 

He went on. “Suddenly I was alone, far from my 
home and from the cats I’d grown up with.” 

“Tall Shadow’s kin, isn’t she?” He wasn’t entirely 
alone. 

“She's kin,” Sun Shadow conceded. “But she 
wasn’t like my kin back in the mountains. She’d 
become a forest cat. Everything was so different here 
from what I’d known. Most of the cats couldn’t even 
imagine what it was like to hunt the peaks. Or to never 
be warm.” He turned and met Moth Flight’s gaze. “T 
felt like a stranger. Like no one knew how I felt. It 
was like being trapped beneath ice, mouthing words to 
cats who couldn’t hear what I said.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him slowly. Did he actually 
understand the pain in her heart? “Do you still feel that 
way?” 

“No.” Sun Shadow’s solemn gaze lit up. “It got 
better as time passed. I’ve grown to love it here. My 





Clanmates feel like kin now. We quarrel sometimes, 
but we look out for each other no matter what. And 
the hunting is good and, when newleaf comes, and the 
oak woods turn green and the wind from the moor 
brings the scent of heather blossom, I am glad I came. 
And I feel I have gained more than I’ve lost.” 

Moth Flight’s shoulders drooped. “PI never feel 
like I’ve gained more than I’ve lost.” 

“Maybe not.” Sun Shadow leaped the ditch and 
padded forward. “But you will come to value what you 
still have, and what you may have in the future.” 

Could that ever be true? Moth Flight followed him, 
the forest floor turning spongy beneath her paws as 
pine needles gave way to moss. Water squelched 
between her claws. 

“Wait!” Sun Shadow dropped his voice, signaling to 
her to halt with a flick of his tail. 

She followed his gaze and saw a green shape 
hopping along the edge of a ditch a few tail-lengths 
ahead. A frog. 

“Do you want to catch it?” Sun Shadow 
whispered. 

“T’m not the greatest hunter,” she admitted. 


“If you miss this one, we’ ll find another.” 

Moth Flight glanced at him, suddenly aware of how 
comfortable she was in his company. “Micah would 
have liked you,” she murmured. 

“I think I would have liked him too.” His eyes 
glowed as he returned her gaze. 

She turned toward the frog and dropped into a 
hunting crouch. Lift your tail. Gorse Fur’s words rang 
in her ears. She crept forward, pleased that the soft 
moss absorbed her paw steps. A tail-length from the 
frog, she paused and fixed her gaze on its glistening 
green body. She forced herself not to shudder. The 
frog hopped another muzzle length and paused. 
They’re dumber than rabbits, Moth Flight thought. 
Can t it smell me? She wondered if the pine-scented 
air was disguising her scent. 

“Hurry up!” Sun Shadow hissed. “They’re not as 
slow as they look!” 

Moth Flight kneaded the moss with her hind paws, 
preparing to jump. Then she leaped, her paws slapping 
the moss a whisker behind the frog. It jumped, tracing 
a high arc across the ditch. Moth Flight blinked as it 
soared away. Bounding over the ditch, she tried to 


catch it again, her paws sending up water-spray as she 
splatted the ground half a taillength behind it. It 
jumped again, changing direction. Moth Flight spun and 
tried to knock it from the air, but it had swerved and 
she landed flat on her belly. 

Black fur flashed past her as Sun Shadow flew 
across the ditch and landed expertly on the frog. He 
held it down as it squirmed, its flippers churning 
desperately. “Do you want to give the killing bite?” 

Moth Flight screwed up her nose. “No, thanks.” 

Sun Shadow ducked and killed it, snapping its spine 
with a crunch. As he straightened, she saw his 
whiskers twitching with amusement. 

“What?” She ruffled her fur. 

“You looked funny, that’s all,” he purred. “I can tell 
you’ ve never hunted frogs before.” 

Moth Flight sniffed. “I bet you couldn’t catch a 
rabbit.” 

“Probably not,” he meowed warmly. “But you still 
looked funny, like a kit chasing its tail.” 

Moth Flight purred, pleasure rising in her without 
warning. / must have looked pretty dumb. Then she 
stiffened. Her purr dried in her throat. 


Sun Shadow watched her, his gaze darkening. 
“Come on,” he mewed briskly. “Let’s take this back to 
camp and you can taste it.” 

“Pm not hungry.” Moth Flight turned toward the 
camp. 

“A mouthful won’t hurt.” Sun Shadow picked up 
the frog between his jaws and padded after her. 

They padded back to camp in silence. How could 
I have purred? Guilt ripped her belly. [ts like I’m 
already forgetting him. Suddenly she wanted to cling 
to her grief. It was all she had left of Micah now. She 
ducked first through the bramble entrance. 

“You caught one!” Tall Shadow greeted them, 
lifting her tail happily as she crossed the clearing 
toward them. 

Sun Shadow dropped the frog. “Moth Flight 
doesn’t want to taste it.” 

Tall Shadow padded around her. “We can’t send 
you back to your Clanmates without having tasted 
frog,’ she meowed. “What will you have to boast 
about?” 

Moth Flight lifted her gaze wearily to the 
ShadowClan leader. “I don’t want food.” She padded 


across the clearmg and nosed her way into Sun 
Shadow’s den. Curling deep into her nest, she closed 
her eyes and let sadness sweep over her. So what if 
Sun Shadow had gotten used to his new home? How 
could she betray Micah by getting used to life without 
him? 





CHAPTER 24 
+ 


She woke into a misty meadow and knew at once 
that she was dreaming. “Micah?” She scanned the 
swirling fog, straining to catch a glimpse of him. 

“Moth Flight?” His voice echoed from the murk. 

Her heart leaped. Joy surged beneath her pelt. 
“Micah! Can you hear me?” 

“Moth Flight, are you there?” 

Moth Flight darted forward, searching for him, but 
there was no sign of him. Only his scent. “Can you 
hear me?” she repeated, panic rising. 

“Moth Flight?” His voice echoed back, sounding 
lost. “I need to tell you something.” 

He doesn t know I'm here! 

“It will be okay.” His mew was tight with worry. 
“I know you're sad. I miss you too. I love you. PH 
always love you. Don't let sadness change you. You 
have to keep going!” 

“Micah!” Her cry turned to a wail of frustration. “T 
need to see you!” Why couldn't he show himself, like 
Half Moon and the others? 


She glimpsed his eyes sparkling through the mist on 
the far side of the meadow. They seemed to stare right 
through her, anxious and searching. She raced toward 
his gaze, his scent enfolding her as she neared. 

“Keep going!” he called. 

“I'm coming.” She raced harder, pushing against 
the dewy grass. 

“Don't give up. You have to be strong. Not just for 
yourself but for—” 

A paw buckled under her and she stumbled, rolling 
onto the grass. Pain jerked her awake. “My leg!” Her 
forepaw was twisted clumsily under her chest. She 
pulled it free, kneading her paw against the bottom of 
the nest to ease the cramping. “Dumb leg!” 

Shadow surrounded her nest. It was still night. She 
growled crossly. Micah was trying to tell me 
something important! 

As the pain eased, Moth Flight thrust her paws 
under her muzzle. Perhaps she could finish her dream. 
She screwed her eyes shut, trying to ignore the 
pounding of her heart as irritation pricked beneath her 
pelt. With every waking moment, her dream would be 
fading, and Micah with it. 


Be strong! Not just for yourself but for— What 
was he going to say? 

Outside, an owl screeched through the pines. A 
ShadowClan cat was snoring somewhere in camp. 
Wind swished through the branches high above her. 

Pll never get back to sleep. Heart sinking, she 
lifted her head. As her eyes grew accustomed to the 
moonlight that filtered dimly through the brambles, she 
wondered if dawn was near. She opened her mouth 
and let the night scents wash her tongue. The dewy air 
tasted of dusk, not dawn. I’m sorry, Micah. Guilt 
pricked at her belly. She’d let him down. He’d tried to 
speak to her and she’d woken up. 

Why was he still roaming the murky meadow? 
Why wasn’t he in StarClan’s hunting grounds yet? 
He’d be safe there, with Half Moon and the others. 
Do farm cats join StarClan? Her fur lifted along her 
spine. What if she never saw him again? She stared, 
frozen. The brambles seemed to close in around her. 
I'll never be with him. Ever. 

She lost track of time, her thoughts spiraling in and 
out of panic. J should take a walk. There was no 
chance of sleep now. But her paws seemed rooted 


beneath her, her body heavy with dread. 

When dawn comes, it'll seem better, she told 
herself. But how long until dawn? Her heart pounded 
in her chest as she watched though the endless night. 

She must have slept eventually, because Pebble 
Heart woke her. 

“Moth Flight!” 

She lifted her head sharply. There was fear in his 
mew. 

“T need your help!” 

She leaped to her paws, her heart lurching. Dawn 
light showed at the den entrance. “What's wrong?” 

“Juniper Branch started kitting in the night.” 

“But she’s not due for—” 

“I know!” Pebble Heart’s eyes were wide. “The 
kits are stuck. She’s pushing, but they won’t come. I’m 
scared they might die. That she might di—” 

Moth Flight cut him off. “We won’t let them.” She 
bounded from her nest and ducked through the 
entrance. Scanning the camp, she tasted the air. The 
sour scent of fear pulsed from an opening in the 
brambles beyond the patch of long grass. She headed 
for it, Pebble Heart at her heels. She nosed her way 


through a gap in the branches, surprised by the size of 
the den inside, hollowed from the thick bramble wall. 

Juniper Branch lay beside her nest, her eyes wild 
with pain. Raven Pelt crouched beside her, his pelt 
spiked with fear. He glanced at Moth Flight as she slid 
in beside him, his hackles rising. “What are you doing 
here?” 

“Tve come to help.” 

“It's okay.” Pebble Heart padded past her. “She’s 
a medicine cat too.” 

“She’s young.” Raven Pelt eyed her warily. “Does 
she know anything about kitting?” 

“Do you?” Pebble Heart returned sternly. 

Moth Flight pressed her cheek to Juniper Branch’s 
belly. “They’re still moving.” She could feel the kits 
squirming inside. “They want to come out.” 

Juniper Branch moaned. “I’m trying!” Her body 
convulsed and she shrieked as pain rippled through her. 

Moth Flight darted behind her and checked to see 
if there was sign of a kit. The ground was bare. “Could 
something be blocking them?” She glanced at Pebble 
Heart. The den was dark, but enough light filtered 
through the brambles to see his face. 


He looked grim. 

“Raven Pelt.” She turned to the dark tom. “I want 
you to fetch moss and soak it in water. Juniper Branch 
will be thirsty.” 

Raven Pelt glanced at Pebble Heart questioningly. 

“Get it,” Pebble Heart told him. 

The tom headed from the den. 

Juniper Branch stared at Moth Flight, eyes dark 
with fear. “But I need him with me.” 

“He’s not going far.” Moth Flight crouched in 
Raven Pelt’s place and rested a paw on the queen’s 
belly. The squirming was stronger. “Pebble Heart and I 
will help you.” She exchanged looks with Pebble 
Heart. I hope. 

“Why won’t they come?” Juniper Branch wailed. 

Moth Flight narrowed her eyes, her thoughts 
quickening. Either something was blocking their way, 
or they weren’t ready to be pushed out. “They aren’t 
due for a half-moon,” she murmured to herself. Could 
Juniper Branch’s body be pushing them out too soon? 

Another spasm gripped the queen. Her belly 
convulsed. 

“Don’t push!” Moth Flight ordered sharply. 


“But I have to.” Juniper Branch began to pant. 

Moth Flight leaned closer. “Keep panting. Focus on 
that. We need to stop your body pushing and let your 
kits find their own way out in their own time.” 

Pebble Heart blinked at her. “She can’t be like this 
for a half-moon!” 

“She won’t need to be,” Moth Flight told him. 
Calmness swept over her. She remembered heading 
into the Highstones tunnel for the first time. She was 
gripped by the same quiet certainty she’d felt then, as 
though she knew what to do. “What happens when 
you stub your paw?” she asked Pebble Heart. 

“Tt hurts?” He stared at her, puzzled. 

“What else?” 

“Tt swells up.” 

“Exactly.” Moth Flight rested her paws low on 
Juniper Branch’s belly. Heat pulsed from the queen’s 
fur. Something was inflamed. “Her body’s not ready 
yet. I can feel where she’s swollen. And each time she 
pushes, it gets worse. The swelling is blocking the kits’ 
way out. She has to stop pushing long enough for it to 
go down.” 

“So they'll have room to come out!” Pebble 


Heart’s eyes widened with understanding. 

Juniper Branch growled. “Another pain is coming.” 

“Keep panting!” Moth Flight darted out of the den 
and scanned the clearing. Her heart leaped as she saw 
a thick pine twig lying at the edge. Racing to it, she 
snatched it between her jaws and headed back to the 
den. She thrust the twig into Juniper Branch’s jaws. 
“Bite on this when the pain comes. Put all your energy 
into biting, not pushing.” 

Juniper Branch screwed up her eyes. A low moan 
rolled in her throat. The wood cracked between her 
jaws as she bit down hard. 

“We’re going to need more sticks,’ Moth Flight 
told Pebble Heart. 

He nodded and ducked out of the den. 

Moth Flight lapped Juniper Branch’s belly with her 
tongue, relieved to feel no spasm reach the kits. “Don’t 
worry, kits,” she murmured between strokes. “We’ll 
have you out of there before long.” 

Juniper Branch fell limp. 

Moth Flight jerked her muzzle around and stared at 
the queen. Her eyes were glazed with exhaustion, but 
the spasm had clearly passed. The crushed pine twig 


lay on the ground next to her. “Well done!” she 
meowed. “You didn’t push that time.” 

Juniper Branch drew in a deep breath and closed 
her eyes. 

“This is going to be difficult,’ Moth Flight told her. 
“You need to stop yourself from pushing for a while 
longer. Just until there’s enough space for the kits to 
get out.” 

“It’s hard,” Juniper Branch moaned. 

“T know.” Moth flight felt a wave of sympathy for 
the queen. “But you have to do it. For your kits.” And 
yourself. She held Juniper Branch’s fearful gaze. “We 
are going to help you.” 

As she spoke, Pebble Heart slid into the den. He 
dropped a fresh twig on the ground. “Mouse Ear and 
Mud Paws are scouring the forest for more.” 

“Have you got any poppy seeds?” A pang of guilt 
jabbed Moth Flight’s belly. Had she eaten his whole 
supply that first night? 

“Dappled Pelt brought two leaf wraps,” he told 
her. 

“Fetch what you’ve got,’ Moth Flight ordered. 
“We need to ease her pain.” 


‘TI bring thyme as well. It”1l calm her.” 

“Good idea.” Moth Flight met his gaze, relieved 
they were facing this together. 

As Pebble Heart disappeared again, Juniper 
Branch began to moan. “Here comes another one.” 

Moth Flight grabbed the fresh twig and slipped it 
between Juniper Branch’s jaws. “Remember. Focus on 
your breathing. The pain will pass before you know it.” 

She rested her paws gently on Juniper Branch’s 
belly as the queen stiffened with the effort of not 
pushing. No! The small movements inside were 
weakening. Hang on, kits. It won t be long now. She 
hoped she was right. 

Spasm after spasm gripped the queen. Moth Flight 
soothed her as she fought each one. Pebble Heart 
returned with poppy seeds and thyme. Juniper Branch 
swallowed both and, when Raven Pelt brought water- 
soaked moss, she lapped at it thirstily. 

“Is she going to be okay?” Raven Pelt gazed 
fearfully at his mate. 

Pebble Heart nosed him toward the den entrance. 
“We’ll do the best we can,” he promised. 

As the black tom let himself be guided out, Mud 


Paws stuck his head inside and dropped a bundle of 
pine twigs. 

“Thank you!” Moth Flight nodded gratefully to the 
tom and quickly thrust one of the twigs between 
Juniper Branch’s jaws. Another spasm was coming. 
She pressed her paws low on the queen’s belly. The 
kits were hardly moving inside. But there was no heat 
pulsing from her fur. Had the swelling gone down? She 
caught Pebble Heart’s eyes as he came back in. “Feel 
this.” 

She moved away and let him place his paws where 
hers had been. “Less swelling, right?” 

He nodded slowly, eyes narrowing with alarm. He 
lowered his voice to a whisper. “But I can hardly feel 
the kits moving.” 

“T know.” Moth Flight leaned close to his ear. “She 
needs to start pushing now or we’ll lose them.” 

“But what if it’s too soon?” 

“Tt’ll be too late if we leave it longer.” 

Pebble Heart gazed at her darkly. “I agree.” He 
pulled his paws away and ducked down beside Juniper 
Branch’s head. “When you get the next spasm, we 
want you to push.” 


“Really?” Relief sparked in Juniper Branch’s gaze. 
She gasped, her body stiffening. 

Moth Flight swapped looks with Pebble Heart. 
StarClan help us. 

As a fresh spasm swept Juniper Branch, the queen 
moaned with effort and pushed. Moth Flight placed her 
paws on the queen’s belly and felt her bear down. 

Pebble Heart crouched at the queen’s tail. “I see 
something coming!” Excitement edged his mew. 

“Keep pushing!” Moth Flight urged. 

Juniper Branch’s moan turned to a growl as she 
gritted her teeth with effort. 

Pebble Heart gasped. “It’s here!” 

Moth Flight darted to his side and stared at the tiny 
shape beside the queen’s tail. A membrane covered it 
and Moth Flight instinctively reached out and sliced it 
open with a claw. Fluid spilled out as the wet kit 
struggled free, mewling as it gulped its first breath. 

Juniper Branch lifted her head, straining to see. 
Moth Flight grabbed the kit by its scruff and placed it 
beside her muzzle. As she reached to lick it, her eyes 
shining with joy, another spasm seized her. 

“Push!” Moth Flight told her sharply. She rested 


her paws on Juniper Branch’s belly once more, feeling 
it convulse. 

“Another one!” Pebble Heart’s mew was jubilant. 
Moth Flight rushed to see. He’d split open the 
membrane by the time she reached it. A purr throbbed 
in her throat as the kit wriggled and mewled. Lifting it 
gently, she placed it beside the first. 

“How many more?” Juniper Branch asked. 

Moth Flight ran her paw over the queen’s belly, 
feeling movement inside. “Another one at least.” As 
she spoke, Juniper Branch jerked with pain. She 
shuddered, panting as she pushed. 

“Tt’s coming,” Pebble Heart urged. 

Juniper Branch pushed again, yowling. The kits 
squealed and wriggled blindly beside her cheek. 

“T think it’s the last one.” Moth Flight glanced at 
Pebble Heart as Juniper Branch fell limp. The 
movement inside her belly had stopped. “We did it!” 

The ShadowClan medicine cat was staring down, 
his eyes dark. 

“What’s wrong?” Moth Flight darted to his side. 

“It was a she-kit,” he mewed softly. 

The kit lay on her split membrane, motionless. 


Moth Flight’s heart lurched as she stared at the 
limp body. She thought of Emberkit, who’d died 
moments after he’d been born. StarClan, help it! She 
reached out a paw and touched the lifeless kit’s pelt. 
She was smaller than her littermates, her pale gray fur 
slick beneath Moth Flight’s pad. She leaned down and 
sniffed her tiny muzzle. “She’s not breathing,” she 
whispered. “Like Drizzle!” 

Pebble Heart blinked at her. “What do you mean?” 

Moth Flight touched a paw to the tiny kit’s ribs. 
“She might have water inside her chest!” 

Pebble Heart looked confused. “Do you know how 
to help her?” 

Moth Flight rolled the kit onto her back and placed 
her paws on her chest. “I think so. But she’s so 
small!” The kit felt as fragile as a sparrow. How hard 
dare she push? 

She began to pump, gently at first, and then, as she 
felt the easy resilience of the kit beneath her paws, 
harder. 

“What’s happening?” Juniper Branch was reaching 
her muzzle around to see, her eyes wide. 

“Take care of the other two,” Pebble Heart told 


her. “We’ll take care of this one.” 

“Ts it dead?” The queen’s mew was thick with 
fear. 

“We don’t know.” Pebble Heart moved, blocking 
the queen’s view as Moth Flight kept working on the 
kit. 

“What are you doing to it?” Alarm edged Juniper 
Branch’s mew. She tried to struggle to her paws, but 
fell back, weak with exhaustion. 

Raven Pelt darted into the den. “What’s going 
on?” 

Moth Flight didn’t look at the black tom, but kept 
pumping the kit’s chest. Am I doing the right thing? 
Was Half Moon watching? Breathe! Please breathe! 
Fear sparked beneath her pelt. 

Raven Pelt shouldered his way past Pebble Heart. 
“What are you doing?” He stared at Moth Flight, his 
eyes round with horror. 

As he spoke, the kit jerked and water bubbled at 
her lips. Moth Flight flipped her over quickly and began 
to massage her back as the kit spewed up liquid. Then 
it mewled a loud, desperate mewl. 

Moth Flight sat back on her haunches, joy lighting 


her like sunshine. Trembling, she met Pebble Heart’s 
gaze. 

“You saved her.” Pebble Heart’s eyes shone. 

The kit flailed its paws and mewled again. 

“I think she wants her mother.” Moth Flight 
backed away and let Raven Pelt scoop the kit up by 
her scruff. 

He placed it beside the others and gazed proudly at 
Juniper Branch. “They’re beautiful.” 

Moth Flight suddenly realized how weary she was. 
Juniper Branch must be exhausted. “We should get her 
into her nest,” she murmured to Pebble Heart. 

“PI see to that,” Pebble Heart told her. “You look 
worn out.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him gratefully. “I am.” Her 
gaze drifted to Juniper Branch and Raven Pelt. They 
were gazing at their kits, and then each other, with 
eyes warm with love. Moth Flight's heart twisted, grief 
stabbing her so suddenly it took her breath away. She 
and Micah would never share such joy. Weak with 
sorrow, she heaved herself onto her paws and padded 
out of the den. 

Behind her, the kits mewled while Raven Pelt and 


Juniper Branch purred. The happiness Moth Flight had 
felt as the kit had come to life beneath her paws 
disappeared like mist in the wind. Oh, Micah. I miss 
you so much. Loss hollowed her heart once more. She 
longed to stop grieving, but how could she? She could 
never have the life she’d planned with Micah—only 
emptiness and long days alone. She felt as though all 
her dreams had died with him. 





CHAPTER 25 
+ 


Moth Flight scanned the nettle patch. She loved this 
part of the pine forest. Gaps in the canopy let narrow 
strips of sunshine reach the mossy forest floor and 
nettles thrived in the rare light. Pebble Heart was 
waiting for her between the ditches that rutted the 
ground beyond the rise. She’d been with ShadowClan 
for nearly a moon now and lately had begun helping 
him gather herbs for his store. She was used to the 
gloom, although the tang of pinesap had begun to make 
her queasy. 

But she wasn't ready to go home. 

She stretched her muzzle forward and nipped 
through the base of a fat-looking nettle stem. Then she 
dragged it over the rise, careful to stay clear of the 
shivering leaves. 

“I think we have enough.” Pebble Heart stepped 
out of the way as she neared the ditch, leaving room 
for her to drop it over the edge. 

It landed on top of the others and began to wilt 
slowly into the muddy water. 


“Are the ones we soaked yesterday finished?” she 
asked. 

Pebble Heart leaped the next ditch and reached his 
paw into the next. “Yes,” he called over his shoulder. 
“No sting left.” 

Moth Flight shook out her fur. “I wonder if drying 
the nettles would get rid of the sting?” 

“Drying herbs is easy on the moor,” Pebble Heart 
hauled up a dripping stem and laid it on the ground. 
“There’s plenty of wind and sunshine up there. It’s too 
damp to dry herbs here.” 

“How are you going to get through leafbare 
without a store of dried herbs?” 

“Dappled Pelt asked me the same question last 
night.” Pebble Heart glanced at her as he hooked 
another stem from the ditch. 

Moth Flight felt a flash of guilt. She’d missed the 
half-moon gathering at the Moonstone. “What did you 
tell her?” 

“ÉI asked if she could dry some herbs for 
ShadowClan.” She realized that he was looking at her 
hopefully. “Would you dry some too? When you return 
to the moor?” There was a question in his eyes. 


Do you want me to leave? 

Pebble Heart must have seen worry darken her 
gaze. “I mean, when you're ready.” 

Will I ever be ready? The ShadowClan cats asked 
nothing of her. They brought her prey and dipped their 
heads respectfully, and talked about everyday things, 
like how the prey was running, or how soon greenleaf 
was coming this year. Being among them was easy. 

Her own Clanmates would be more inquisitive. 
They’d ask about Micah. And they’d expect her to 
return to her medicine cat duties. Moth Flight’s belly 
tightened. She wasn’t ready to look after anyone yet. 

When she didn’t answer, Pebble Heart glanced 
down at the nettle stems. “We missed you at the 
Moonstone last night.” 

“I wanted to come with you.” She had. She knew 
deep in her belly that being a medicine cat was her 
destiny. And helping the ShadowClan medicine cat 
was renewing her confidence. She had a sense of 
purpose once more, and satisfaction in her work had 
distracted her from her grief. Since Juniper Branch 
had kitted, she’d kept a close eye on the kits. She’d 
taken Pebble Heart to the edge of the oak forest to 


gather borage to make sure that Juniper Branch had 
enough milk for them. But she’d felt so weary in the 
past moon; she crept, exhausted, to her nest every 
night. The thought of the long trek to Highstones had 
been daunting. And, if she was being honest with 
herself, perhaps she wasn’t ready to see Micah among 
the StarClan cats. That means he’s really gone. “I 
was tired.” 

“T understand.” Pebble Heart’s gaze flickered over 
her belly. Had he noticed that her days of resting— 
eating prey, which other cats had caught—had begun 
to show in her swollen flanks? Perhaps it was time she 
pulled herself together and went back to her Clan. Her 
grief had lost the raw power that had silenced her for 
days at a time, but she still woke trembling in the night, 
her longing for Micah so strong that her heart roared in 
her ears. 

“Tm not going to stop being a medicine cat,” she 
reassured him. 

“I didn’t think you would.” He began to straighten 
the nettle stems. 

“The other medicine cats know that, don’t they?” 

“Of course.” He plucked a stringy old grass stem 


from the edge of the ditch and threaded it under the 
bundle he’d made. “They told me to tell you not to 
worry about missing the meeting. They understood.” 

“Did StarClan visit with you?” Moth Flight had 
been avoiding the question since Pebble Heart returned 
at dawn. Had Micah been there? She didn’t want to 
know. If he had, having missed him would break her 
heart all over again. If he hadn’t, she’d worry that he 
would never be part of their ranks. But she had to 
know if StarClan had a message for her. 

“Half Moon came alone,” Pebble Heart told her. 
“She only stayed long enough to tell us to look after 
you.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him. Hadn’t she said 
anything about Micah? “Was that all?” 

“Yes.” Pebble Heart wrapped the grass stem 
around the bundle. “Acorn Fur was disappointed. 
She’d been expecting to see her ancestors.” 

Moth Flight stiffened, irritation prickling beneath 
her pelt. “Acorn Fur was there?” 

Pebble Heart threaded the grass around the stems 
again, pulling them tightly together. “She’s SkyClan’s 
medicine cat now.” 


“She’s a spy!” Moth Flight snapped. “Clear Sky 
told her to watch Micah because he didn’t trust him.” 

“That might be true.” Pebble Heart looked up. 
“But Micah taught her a lot. She knows more about 
healing than any other SkyClan cat. And she likes it. 
Besides—” He paused, avoiding her gaze. “I’ve had 
dreams about her healing her Clanmates.” 

“You knew she’d become their medicine cat?” 
Outrage flared in Moth Flight’s belly. “Why didn’t you 
warn me?” 

“I never knew,” Pebble Heart corrected her. “I 
have lots of dreams. They don’t all turn out to be 
visions.” He met her gaze steadily. “Seeing Acorn Fur 
giving herbs to sick cats isn’t the same as knowing 
Micah would die. Even if I’d guessed he would die, 
would you really have wanted to know?” 

“I could have—” 

He cut her off. “What? Changed his destiny? 
Loved him more?” 

Moth Flight stared at him, wordless. If she had 
known, would she have done anything differently? Her 
time with Micah had been wonderful. Would she really 
have wanted the shadow of his death looming over 


those perfect days? 

Pebble Heart’s mew softened. “I was worried you 
didn’t come to the Moonstone because you blamed 
StarClan for letting him die.” 

She blinked at him. “I did blame them,” she 
admitted. “But that’s not why I didn’t go.” 

“Do you still blame them?” 

Moth Flight shook her head. “Even if they’d known 
his destiny, they might have been powerless to change 
it. And you’re right: What would I have done if I’d 
known?” 

As she spoke, Pebble Heart’s gaze flicked past her 
shoulder. She stiffened as she saw his hackles rise. 
Opening her mouth, she tasted the air. Cat scents were 
billowing behind her. 

She turned, flattening her ears. 

Two cats padded from among the trees. 

“Moth Flight!” A plump black-and-white farm cat 
called out to her. 

The brown tom at her side swished his tail. “We 
thought we’d never find you!” 

“Cow!” Moth Flight hurried toward them, her heart 
quickening with delight. “Mouse!” 


Cow’s gaze was rimmed with sadness. “We heard 
about Micah.” 

Mouse’s tail drooped. “Did he suffer?” 

Moth Flight stopped in her tracks, her mew 
catching in her throat as she remembered Micah’s last 
moments. “Not for long,” she managed to mew. 

Cow weaved around her, her soft pelt brushing 
warmly against Moth Flight’s fur. 

Mouse dipped his head to Pebble Heart. “I hope 
you don’t mind us coming,” he meowed. “We crossed 
the moor, looking for Micah. A cat named Gorse Fur 
told us about the accident.” 

Cow held Moth Flight’s gaze, her eyes brimming 
with sadness. “He said you were with him at the end.” 

Moth Flight wondered for a moment if they blamed 
her for taking Micah away. But Cow wrapped her tail 
over Moth Flight’s spine, her gaze warm with 
sympathy. “It must have been hard for you.” 

“At least I was with him.” Her throat tightened as 
she remembered. She swallowed back grief, noticing 
their dusty pelts. “You must be tired. It’s a long journey 
from the farm.” 

Pebble Heart padded forward. “Come back to the 


camp and rest.” He glanced at the bunch of stems. “T 
need to get these back before they start to rot.” 

Cow stared at the sodden bundle. “Why are you 
gathering wet nettles?” 

Mouse glanced around the shadowy pine forest, 
puzzled. “Isn’t there any prey here?” 

“There’s plenty,’ Pebble Heart purred. “I’m 
collecting nettles in case one of my Clanmates gets 
sick.” 

Cow blinked. “Will stinging them help?” 

Moth Flight’s whiskers twitched with amusement. 
“They don’t sting, now that we’ve soaked them. 
They’ ll help soothe wounds and, if you eat them, they 
ease aching bones.” 

“You seem a lot smarter than when we first met.” 
Cow winked at Pebble Heart. “She tried to cross a 
field while the farm dog was herding sheep.” 

Moth Flight purred, remembering. “Micah saved 
me.” 

Cow caught her eye. “You must miss him.” 

“T do,” she answered huskily. “We were mates.” 

Cow pressed her muzzle to Moth Flight’s cheek. 

Pebble Heart flicked his tail toward brambles 


showing among the pines. “The camp’s not far.” He 
picked up one end of the grass stem between his teeth 
and began to drag the nettle bundle across the forest 
floor. Mouse hurried to grab the trailing end. 

Cow fell in beside Moth Flight. “How long since 
Micah died?” 

“A moon,” Moth Flight told her softly. 

They walked on, sharing their grief in silence. 

As they neared the camp, Raven Pelt padded from 
the entrance, tasting the air. His gaze flashed toward 
them, narrowing as he saw Mouse and Cow. 

Moth Flight hurried to meet him. “They’re friends,” 
she explained. “They lived on the same farm as 
Micah.” 

Tall Shadow slid out of camp, her nose twitching. 
“Do we have visitors?” 

Cow dipped her head to the ShadowClan leader. 
“We came to see Moth Flight.” 

“Come in and share some prey,” Tall Shadow told 
her. “It’s running well at the moment. There’s more 
than we can eat.” 

She led Cow into camp, the scent of fresh-kill 
heavy in the air. Moth Flight and Raven Pelt followed 


at her heels, while Mouse and Pebble Heart dragged 
the nettles after them. 

Three kits looked up from the long grass where 
Juniper Branch was resting. 

The biggest, a black tom with an orange tail, 
blinked at them. “Look, Dusk Nose!” He nudged the 
she-kit beside him. “Visitors!” He dashed across the 
clearing. 

Dusk Nose, a black-and-orange  tortoiseshell, 
followed. “Who are you?” she called to Cow. 

“Are you a Clan cat?” Another tom-kit hurried 
after them, his dappled brown pelt perfectly 
camouflaged against the shady forest floor. 

Moth Flight purred. “This is Cow,” she explained. 
“She and Mouse were friends of Micah.” 

“I'm Dangling Leaf.” The orange-tailed tom 
scrambled to a halt in front of Cow. 

“I’m Dusk Nose,” his sister mewed. 

The dappled brown tom stopped beside them. “I’m 
Shade Pelt.” 

Dangling Leaf tipped his head. “Do you know 
Micah’s dead?” he asked Cow. 

Moth Flight flinched, but Cow returned his 


inquisitive gaze steadily. “Yes.” 

Dusk Nose nudged her brother. “You can’t ask 
questions like that, Shade Pelt. It’s rude.” 

“Raven Pelt says we can ask anything we like,” 
Dangling Leaf mewed back. 

Shade Pelt sniffed. “He also says we have to 
know when to be quiet, or we'll never be good 
hunters.” He blinked at Moth Flight. “Do you mind us 
talking about Micah?” 

Moth Flight ignored the sadness pricking in her 
chest. “No.” It wouldn’t change anything to pretend 
Micah had never existed. It wouldn’t hurt any less. 

Dangling Leaf was still staring at Cow. “Why did 
you come, if Micah’s dead?” 

“We came to see Moth Flight,” Cow told him. 

Dusk Nose lifted her chin. “Are you her friends 
too?” 

“Yes.” Cow gazed around the camp. “This looks 
very cozy.” 

Behind them, Mouse was helping Pebble Heart 
hoist the nettle stems high into the bramble wall of the 
camp to drain. The nettles dangled from the prickly 
branches and dripped muddy water onto the ground. 


“I have my own den,” Moth Flight told her. 

“You've got Sun Shadow’s den,” Shade Pelt 
corrected her. 

Moth Flight shifted her paws. “That’s true. Sun 
Shadow’s letting me use his den until I go home.” 

Cow blinked at her. “Isn’t this your home?” 

Tall Shadow answered for her. “She lives on the 
moor.” 

Cow glanced at Moth Flight’s belly. “Will you go 
home to have your kits?” 

Moth Flight stared at her. “I’m not having kits!” 

“Are you sure, dear?” Cow tipped her head 
sympathetically. 

Moth Flight froze. Could I be having kits? Surely 
she’d know? Then she remembered: her tiredness, her 
queasiness . . . She glanced at Tall Shadow, shock 
pulsing through her pelt. 

The ShadowClan leader dropped her gaze. 

Pebble Heart padded closer, his ears twitching. 
“We thought you knew.” 

Moth Flight’s paws seemed to root into the ground. 
The camp swam around her. “I didn’t think!” Her mind 
whirled. “I’ve never had kits before.” She’d thought 


that her easy life in ShadowClan was making her fat. 

Tall Shadow blinked. “We thought you were happy 
to have something left of Micah.” 

Micah s kits. Moth Flight’s heart seemed to turn in 
her chest. She was carrying Micah s kits. 

Cow purred loudly. “They”Il be as handsome and 
brave as their father.” 

Kits! Growing inside her! “I can’t!” She backed 
away, shocked. She could hardly take care of herself! 
How could she be responsible for new lives? Her 
thoughts flashed back to Slate’s kits, lost on the moor 
because of her. Then she remembered Juniper 
Branch’s kitting. The pain! The ground seemed to 
sway beneath her paws. 

Cow pressed against her. “It’s the most natural 
thing in the world.” 

Moth Flight's thoughts swirled. “I need to go 
home.” The need tugged deep in her belly. “I have to 
see Wind Runner.” Suddenly she wanted to nestle 
among her kin and shelter in their warmth. 

Tall Shadow dipped her head. “Someone must 
escort you,” she meowed firmly. “You shouldn’t travel 
alone.” 


‘Tl be fine,’ Moth Flight answered, still dazed 
from the shock. 

Pebble Heart stepped forward. “PI take her.” 

Moth Flight looked at him blankly. “Can we go 
now?” Her gaze flitted distractedly to Cow and 
Mouse. “I’m sorry to leave you. You’ve only just 
arrived. But—” 

Cow’s eyes rounded with sympathy. “We 
understand.” 

Tall Shadow flicked her tail. “We’ll make sure they 
are fed and rested before they head home.” 

Moth Flight hardly heard the ShadowClan leader. 
Her thoughts were already racing toward the moor, 
where her Clanmates were waiting for her. How could 
she have stayed away so long? “I’ve been so selfish,” 
she murmured to herself as she headed for the camp 
entrance. 

Pebble Heart caught up to her and fell in step 
beside her. “Perhaps you should have some thyme 
before we go,” he suggested quietly. “You seem 
shocked.” 

“I'm okay.” Moth Flight kept her gaze fixed ahead. 
It didn’t matter if she was shocked. She had to be 


strong now. She was carrying Micah’s kits. Nothing 
was more important than that. 





CHAPTER 26 
+ 


Moth Flight struggled for breath as she walked 
beside Pebble Heart. 

“Let’s slow down,” he urged. 

She shook her head. “I want to get home.” She 
padded from the pines and stopped beside the 
Thunderpath. The stone trail was deserted, but the 
stale stench of monsters made Moth Flight feel sick. 
‘Tve become so weak!” 

“I think it’s because you're carrying kits.” Pebble 
Heart paused on the grass verge. “Juniper Branch 
could hardly cross the clearing without panting by the 
end.” 

“But I’ve another moon to go!” Moth Flight hurried 
onto the smooth stone, not wanting to be reminded of 
the queen’s long and painful kitting. 

Pebble Heart followed her, tactfully changing the 
subject. “Your Clanmates will have missed you.” 

“Do you think?” She turned as she reached the far 
side. Would they feel she’d been disloyal by staying 
away for so long? 


“They'll be glad you're home.” Pebble Heart 
bounded up the short, steep slope onto the moorside. 

Moth Flight struggled after him, stopping at the top 
to catch her breath. She gazed across the heather. Its 
blossom had turned the moorside purple. Wind swept 
around her, lifting her fur. She closed her eyes, 
relishing the sensation. The dank pines had shielded 
her for too long. “I should have come home earlier.” 

“You waited until you were ready.” Pebble Heart 
headed upslope. 

Moth Flight followed, surprised by the silkiness of 
the grass beneath her paws. One day her kits would 
run here. Excitement flickered in her chest. Was she 
really going to be a mother? To Micah’ kits! Joy 
swamped her. Grief would no longer be her only link to 
him. Soon she’d have his kits; she’d watch them grow. 
She’d tell them about their brave and handsome father. 
He would live on through them. 

I'll have to raise them alone. The idea daunted 
her, but the closer she got to home, the more she felt 
she would be okay. Wind Runner always knows what 
to do. She glanced at Pebble Heart, his gray pelt 
ruffled by the breeze. “Thank you for being so kind to 


” 


me. 

He slowed to let her catch up. “I didn’t do anything 
really.” 

“Yes, you did.” She remembered all the times he’d 
brought her prey; how often she’d woken to find 
water-soaked moss on the side of her nest; how gently 
he’d encouraged her to help gather herbs and mix 
poultices. Thanks to him, she’d lost none of her skills; 
indeed, he’d taught her so much. He was such a wise, 
serious cat—a dreamer in his own way, but not as 
easily distracted as she was. She admired him and had 
grown fond of him. He was almost like a Clanmate. 

As her thoughts drifted, movement caught her eye. 
She looked down the grassy slope and saw cats 
stalking along the SkyClan border. Their pelts showed 
among the trees, moving slowly through the ferns. She 
halted, narrowing her gaze as she recognized Thorn, 
Birch, and Nettle. “I wonder what they’re doing?” she 
called to Pebble Heart. 

Pebble Heart followed her gaze. The three cats 
had stopped. Birch was marking a tree with his scent. 
“It’s a border patrol.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him. “A what?” 


“Clear Sky’s given orders that his borders are to be 
checked daily and fresh markings left.” 

Anger flared in Moth Flight’s belly. “Does he still 
insist on borders?” She could hardly believe any cat 
could be so rabbit-brained. 

“He says cats belong in their own territory,” 
Pebble Heart murmured. 

“So Micah died for nothing!” Moth Flight flattened 
her ears. “Doesn’t he realize that Micah would never 
have died if he hadn’t been so bothered about his 
borders?” 

Pebble Heart avoided her gaze. “He says Micah 
would never have died if you hadn’t crossed the border 
with him.” 

Moth Flight trembled with fury. “How dare he?” 

“Don’t let it upset you,” Pebble Heart begged. “Tf 
Clear Sky wants to fuss about his borders, then let 
him.” His gaze slid past her. 

She jerked her muzzle around, following it, and saw 
Willow Tail and Eagle Feather watching the SkyClan 
patrol from a distant, rocky outcrop. “Don’t they have 
anything better to do?” she snapped. “They should be 
feeding their Clan, not watching borders!” She broke 


into a trot, heading for the hollow. 

Pebble Heart hurried after her. “Let Wind Runner 
worry about it,” he told her. “You're a medicine cat, 
not a hunter. Borders aren’t your problem.” 

As he spoke, a gray-and-white pelt showed against 
the heather upslope. 

Moth Flight recognized it at once. “Swift 
Minnow!” The sight of her Clanmate distracted her 
from her anger. 

Swift Minnow squinted at them, lifting her tail 
suddenly and breaking into a run. “Moth Flight! Is that 
you?” She sprinted toward them, meowing happily, and 
skidded to a halt a tail-length away. She stared, her 
eyes rounding as she saw Moth Flight’s swollen flanks. 
“You're expecting kits!” Joy lit up her gaze. “Are they 
Micah’s?” 

“Yes,” Moth Flight purred. 

“We were beginning to think you were never 
coming home.” Swift Minnow cast an anxious glance 
toward the hollow. 

“T needed time to grieve,” Moth Flight explained. 

The heather rustled behind Swift Minnow, as Slate 
padded out. She pricked her ears as she saw Moth 


Flight. “You’re back!” 

Moth Flight felt a rush of happiness. The grieving 
queen looked well, her eyes brighter than they’d been 
in moons. “How’s White Tail?” she called. “Have 
Silver Stripe and Black Ear been behaving 
themselves?” 

“They’re all fine!” Slate hurried toward them. 
“You'd hardly recognize them! They’ve grown so 
much.” She slowed, her ears pricking. “You’re 
expecting!” 

Swift Minnow plucked at the grass excitedly. 
“They’re Micah’s kits!” she told her friend. 

Slate wove around Moth Flight purring happily. 
“Have you come home for good?” 

“I want my kits to grow up on the moor,’ Moth 
Flight told her. 

“Hurry up!” Swift Minnow ducked into the 
heather. “Let’s get back to camp!” 

Moth Flight noticed Pebble Heart hesitate. 

“Pll go home, now that I know you're safe,” he 
meowed shyly. 

“Are you sure?” Moth Flight gazed at him fondly. 

“Yeah.” He flicked his tail and began to head 


downslope. “Take care. Send for me when the kits 
come!” 

“Bye, Pebble Heart!” Slate was nudging Moth 
Flight toward the heather. “Wait until Gorse Fur sees 
you! He’s been so worried.” 

Moth Flight followed Swift Minnow’s trail, 
zigzagging between the bushes until she emerged onto 
the stretch of grass outside the camp entrance. 

As the scents of home swept over her, her pelt 
rippled with pleasure. 

Swift Minnow had already disappeared inside and 
Moth Flight followed, her heart beating loudly in her 
chest. 

“Moth Flight!” Dust Muzzle was the first to come 
bounding across the tussocky clearing. Spotted Fur and 
Fern Leaf hurried after him, their eyes bright. 

They scrambled to a halt in front of her, staring at 
her belly. 

“Pm expecting Micah’s kits.” She glanced 
anxiously at Spotted Fur. Was he still jealous? 

Spotted Fur blinked at her, then purred. 
“Congratulations!” 

Relief washed over her. 


Fern Leaf purred and murmured “How exciting!” 
as Dust Muzzle pressed his nose to her cheek. “I’m 
glad you’re home.” 

Gorse Fur was crossing the clearing toward them, 
Rocky lumbering behind. 

Moth Flight felt a flicker of worry as she saw the 
old cat. “Are you better?” she called. She should have 
been here, taking care of him. 

“I'm as healthy as a fox,” he rumbled. 

Gorse Fur stopped beside her. “I knew you 
couldn’t stay in that dark old forest forever.” He 
weaved around her while Rocky stared at her proudly. 

“Pm glad you're back,” the old tom rumbled. 
“Reed Tail won't let me have catmint.” 

Moth Flight stiffened. Had Rocky been 
exaggerating? Was he still sick? “Do you need some?” 

Rocky glanced at his paws. “I don’t need it, but 
sometimes I get a sore throat and a little catmint 
always makes me feel better.” 

Reed Tail was stalking toward them, his ears 
pricked. “The only reason you get a sore throat is from 
snoring so loudly!” He padded past the old tom and 
greeted Moth Flight with a nod. “Thank StarClan 


you’re back. I’m run off my paws trying to find herbs, 
and if Silver Stripe ever makes it through a day without 
getting a scratch or a graze, I’ll be amazed.” 

Moth Flight’s whiskers twitched with amusement. 
“Where are the kits?” She gasped as she saw three 
young cats bounding toward her. She recognized their 
pelts, but they were so big! “Silver Stripe! Black Ear!” 
They looked old enough to hunt! “White Tail, you’ve 
grown so handsome!” The gray-and-white kit had his 
father’s broad shoulders and Slate’s soft amber gaze. 

“Black Ear s handsome too!” Silver Stripe told her 
proudly. 

“Of course he is!” Moth Flight looked admiringly at 
Black Ear before purring at Silver Stripe. “And you’re 
as beautiful as your mother.” 

“Who cares if I’m beautiful?” Silver Stripe stuck 
her nose in the air. “Beauty doesn’t help with hunting, 
and I’m going to be the best hunter in WindClan.” 

“I can believe it.” Moth Flight nosed her way 
through her Clanmates and headed across the clearing. 
“How’s my den? I hope no rain’s gotten in. My herbs 
should be good and dry by now. Although I need to 
pick fresh ones. Cloud Spots says fresh herbs work 


better.” 

Reed Tail fell in beside her. “I’ve been using your 
den,” he confessed. “It seemed best, since I was being 
medicine cat while you were away.” 

Moth Flight caught his eye, gratitude flooding her. 
“Thank you so much,” she mewed earnestly. “I’m 
sorry I left you responsible for everything. I just 
couldn’t face . . .” Her mew trailed away as a sudden 
wave of grief slapped against her like cold water. The 
familiar faces and scents had carried her back to a 
time before Micah had died. She swallowed. 

Reed Tail shot her a look. “You’ll feel at home 
again in no time,” he promised. 

“Yes,” she answered huskily. She stopped outside 
her den, her Clanmates watching from beyond the 
tussocks. They looked so pleased to see her. Her heart 
swelled with thanks. Then she spotted two pairs of 
eyes staring from the shadows of Jagged Peak’s den. 
Her fur prickled anxiously. Holly and Jagged Peak 
hadn’t wanted her to leave. She’d stayed away for a 
whole moon. Taking a deep breath, she headed toward 
them. 

Jagged Peak ducked outside first, his ears 


twitching. 

Holly followed, her gaze cool. “A grieving cat 
should stay with her Clan,” she muttered. 

Jagged Peak glanced at Moth Flight’s belly. “Are 
you carrying his kits?” 

“Micah’s?” Moth Flight narrowed her eyes. “Yes. 
And I’m proud of it.” 

“He was a SkyClan cat,” Jagged Peak grunted. 

Moth Flight glared at him. “He was a farm cat too! 
Does that make it better or worse?” 

“Jagged Peak!” Storm Pelt charged across the 
clearing. He stopped in front of his father and mother 
and blinked at them. “You should be happy she’s come 
home.” 

Holly sniffed. “Why did she bother? She’s been 
away from WindClan so long, she doesn’t even smell 
like a WindClan cat anymore.” 

Dew Nose slid from the den and stopped beside 
her brother. “Moth Flight was born WindClan and 
she’Il always be WindClan.” 

Storm Pelt lifted his chin. “She’s the one who 
found the Moonstone. Aren’t you proud she’s our 
Clanmate?” 


“Will her kits be our Clanmates too?” Holly 
muttered. “Even though they carry SkyClan blood?” 

“And farm-cat blood,” Jagged Peak added. 

Storm Pelt faced his mother, pelt prickling. “You 
weren’t born WindClan!” His gaze flashed toward his 
father. “And you were a mountain cat who left his 
tribe.” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws uncomfortably. She 
didn’t want to cause an argument between kin. 

Holly eyed her kits doubtfully. “How do we know 
she won’t leave again?” 

“T won't,” Moth Flight promised. 

“Moth Flight!” Her mother’s mew rang across the 
clearing. She turned to see the WindClan leader 
bounding toward her. 

Wind Runner skidded to a halt and thrust her 
muzzle against Moth Flight’s chin. “You're home at 
last!” A sigh shuddered through her. She drew back, 
her gaze darkening. “Did you travel here by yourself? I 
hope you were careful near the SkyClan border. 
They’ve been raiding the moor for rabbits again. Of 
course, Clear Sky denies it but—” She stopped and 
stared at Moth Flight. “You’re expecting kits!” 


Moth Flight sat down, letting her belly bulge. 
“They’re due in a moon.” 

“Micah's?” Wind Runner tipped her head. 

“Of course.” Moth Flight purred. Did her mother 
think they could be anyone else’s? 

“Let’s hope they take after you.” Wind Runner 
lowered her voice. “Micah was a little too sure of 
himself.” 

Moth Flight met her mother’s gaze calmly. “And 
you’re not, I suppose.” 

Wind Runner’s eyes widened with surprise. Then 
she purred. “My little kit has grown claws.” 

Moth Flight glanced down at her belly. “I need to,” 
she mewed. “I’ve got my own kits to protect.” 

Wind Runner swished her tail, pride warming her 
gaze. “You must be tired after your journey. Let’s get 
you settled in your nest.” 

Moth Flight got to her paws, suddenly realizing 
how weary she felt. She snatched a look at Jagged 
Peak and Holly, hoping that they’d be less prickly once 
they saw that she was here to stay. They avoided her 
gaze, their pelts ruffled. 

Wind Runner nudged her toward her den. “I’m so 


glad you’re back.” 

Moth Flight purred. It felt good to be home and 
Wind Runner was pleased to see her. The warmth in 
her mother’s mew reassured her that, from now on, 
everything was going to be fine. 


Moth Flight rolled a wad of borage leaves into a 
bundle and slotted them into a small gap in the gorse at 
the back of her den. She relished the coolness here. 
Outside, early greenleaf sunshine was scorching the 
camp. 

The scent of herbs washed over her and she 
thanked StarClan that she’d stopped feeling queasy. 
The kits were due any day and her belly was so 
swollen that she felt as clumsy as a toad. She sat back 
on her haunches and looked approvingly at the array of 
herbs poking out from between the branches. “We’ve 
done well.” She blinked at Reed Tail. 

The silver tabby tom sat down and tucked his tail 
over his herb-stained paws. “You’ve taught me so 
much.” 

In the moon since she’d returned to the WindClan 
camp, Moth Flight had shared with him all she’d 
learned from the other medicine cats. When the kits 


came, she guessed that there would be times when 
she’d be too busy to tend to her Clan and she wanted 
him to be prepared to take her place. And so, she had 
spent nearly every day with him, scouring the moor for 
herbs, and teaching him their names as they gathered 
them for her store. 

She glanced at her nest now, wondering when the 
kits would come. She had woven extra heather to 
make it larger, and lined it thickly with moss. She 
shifted as a twinge in her belly made her wince. 

Reed Tail stiffened. “Are you okay?” 

“Tm fine,” Moth Flight told him. “The kits are just 
fidgety today.” 

As she spoke, fur brushed the gorse entrance. 

Rocky padded into the den, blinking as his eyes 
adjusted to the gloom. “My chest is feeling a bit tight.” 
He looked at her hopefully. “Can you spare some 
catmint?” 

Moth Flight heaved herself to her paws and 
crossed the den. She pressed her ear against his flank 
and listened for bubbling inside his chest. He was 
breathing clearly. She looked at him sternly. “You’re as 
fit as a flea. I can’t waste catmint on healthy cats. Pd 


have to travel to Twolegplace to fetch more.” 

“I could fetch some for you,” Rocky offered. “I 
know Twolegplace well. I used to live there, 
remember?” 

“That’s a kind offer.” She wouldn’t put it past the 
old tom to travel to Twolegplace in search of catmint. 
“But let younger cats fetch the herbs. Your paws are 
too stiff to climb the wooden walls.” 

Rocky’s eyes brightened. “Does catmint help stiff 
paws?” 

Moth Flight’s whiskers twitched with amusement. 
“No, but I can give you some comfrey. Reed Tail and I 
picked some fresh leaves this morning.” 

Rocky wrinkled his nose. “No, thanks. The 
stiffness doesn’t bother me that much and I—” 

Moth Flight didn’t hear the rest of his words. Pain 
pulsed through her as a spasm gripped her belly. She 
gasped, swaying. 

“Are the kits coming?” Reed Tail raced to her 
side. 

“T think so.” She curled her claws into the ground, 
bracing herself against the pain. “Send someone to 
fetch Pebble Heart,” she puffed. “He knows what to 


do.” 

Reed Tail hared from the den and left Rocky 
staring at her nervously. 

“Do you want to lie down in your nest?” he asked 
hesitantly. 

“No!” Moth Flight glared at him as another spasm 
crushed her belly. She began to pace, a growl rolling 
deep in her throat. Focus on your breathing. She 
remembered the advice she’d given Juniper Branch 
and tried to concentrate on each breath. What if she 
wasn’t ready? What if the kits got stuck? What if they 
died like Emberkit? Her thoughts began to whirl. She 
stopped and stared at Rocky, panic sparking through 
her pelt. 

Rocky blinked at her. “PI get Wind Runner.” He 
ducked out of the den. 

Moth Flight moaned, shocked by the pain gripping 
her belly. She began pacing again, not sure what to do 
with herself. She couldn’t bear the thought of sitting 
still. Moving distracted her. But she felt weak with the 
pain. She lay down as another spasm shuddered 
through her body. Then she scrambled to her paws, 
frightened at feeling so helpless. 


“Moth Flight!” Wind Runner’s mew sounded at the 
den entrance. Her mother hurried into the den and 
pressed her muzzle to Moth Flight’s cheek. “Don’t be 
scared,” she murmured. “Everything’s going to be 
okay. Dust Muzzle’s on his way to fetch Pebble Heart. 
And Slate will be here in a moment. We’re going to 
look after you until Pebble Heart arrives.” 

Moth Flight leaned against her mother, relief 
swamping her. “I don’t know what to do,’ she 
whimpered. 

“Just keep pacing until you need to lie down.” 
Wind Runner drew away and looked into Moth Flight’s 
eyes. “You’re not the first cat to have kits. You will be 
fine.” 

“But it hurts!” Moth Flight was startled by the 
intensity of the pain. 

Wind Runner’s eyes glistened with sympathy. “You 
won’t remember it afterward, I promise.” 

“That doesn’t help me now!” Moth Flight snapped 
back. Another spasm was coming. She closed her 
eyes as it swept over her. When it had passed, she 
gazed blearily at her mother. “How long will it take?” 

“Not long,’ Wind Runner soothed. “Not long at 


all.” 

Paw steps sounded at the den entrance and Slate 
hurried into the den. “How’s she doing?” she asked 
Wind Runner. 

The Wind Clan leader shot her an anxious look. 
“The kits will be here before Pebble Heart,’ she 
breathed. 

Moth Flight stiffened as she heard her mother. 
“How do you know?” 

Slate didn’t give Wind Runner time to answer. 
“Are the spasms that close together?” She turned to 
Moth Flight. “Lie down and let me feel your belly.” 

Wincing as another spasm pulsed through her, 
Moth Flight lay down. She growled with pain, hardly 
feeling Slate’s paws on her belly. 

Slate nodded briskly. “Your kits feel strong. I think 
they’re eager to come out and meet you.” 

Pain scorched through Moth Flight. Stronger than 
before. “Wind Runner!” She reached a paw toward 
her mother. 

“It won’t be long now.” Wind Runner crouched 
beside her. 

“I need a stick to bite on,” Moth Flight panted as 


she fought the urge to yowl with pain. 

“T’Il get you one.” Slate ducked out of the den. 

She returned a few moments later with a tough 
heather stem. 

Moth Flight took it from her, relieved as she bit 
down hard with the next spasm. The wood crunched 
between her jaws and she moaned as her belly 
convulsed with such power that she thought she would 
die. Micah! She focused her thoughts on him, 
determined to stay strong. The image of his steady 
gaze shone in her thoughts. He seemed to be silently 
urging her on. Groaning, she pushed with all her 
strength. 

“Here’s the first kit!” Slate ducked behind her and 
lifted a small squirming bundle. 

Moth Flight blinked at it, surprised, and spat out the 
stick. “Is it okay?” 

“It's a he and he’s fine.” Slate laid the tom-kit 
beside Moth Flight’s muzzle. His warm scent filled 
Moth Flight’s nose and she nuzzled him, her heart 
swelling as he squirmed against her cheek. 

Her body convulsed again. 

“Another one!” Slate sounded jubilant. 


As a spasm seized her once more, the world 
seemed to blur around Moth Flight. She was aware 
only of pain and the muted voices of Wind Runner and 
Slate. In her mind, Micah’s green gaze glowed steady 
and strong. The heady scent of her new kits washed 
her muzzle and then, suddenly, the pain stopped. 

“Four kits.” Wind Runner’s proud mew broke 
through the fog. 

Moth Flight turned her head, blinking, and saw four 
squirming bundles beside her. Instinctively she pulled 
them close to her belly, reaching down to lap them dry. 
Two of the kits had yellow splotches on their soft white 
pelts. One was striped yellow all over, just like his 
father. “His fur!” she looked up at her mother. “It’s the 
same color as Micah’s!” The fourth was white, like 
Moth Flight. “I wonder what color their eyes will be.” 
The kits wriggled against her, their eyes still closed. 

“You’ll have to wait a few days before you know.” 
Wind Runner’s mew was barely a whisper as she 
leaned down and lapped Moth Flight’s cheek. “Well 
done. I’m very proud of you.” 

“Is she okay?” Pebble Heart’s anxious mew 
sounded at the den entrance. He nosed his way into 


the den, puffing to catch his breath. Heat radiated from 
his pelt. 

Slate stared at him. “Did you run all the way?” 

Pebble Heart was gazing at the kits. “I’m too 
late?” 

“Pm afraid so,” Wind Runner told him 
apologetically. “But I’m glad you came. You can make 
sure Moth Flight and the kits are okay.” 

“They look fine.” Pebble Heart’s eyes glowed. 

Dust Muzzle stuck his head through the entrance. 
“He outran me!” 

Moth Flight blinked fondly at the ShadowClan 
medicine cat. “I did it!” Pride pulsed through her, 
stronger than any she’d felt before. “Aren’t they 
beautiful?” She hugged the kits closer, joy washing 
over her as she felt them warm against her belly. 
Micah’s green gaze flashed once more in her mind. 
Thank you, Micah. 

“They’re lovely,” Pebble Heart agreed. He leaned 
down and sniffed them. “They seem strong and 
healthy.” 

Wind Runner tipped her head, her eyes glittering 
with worry. “Will you stay tonight, just in case?” 


“Of course,” Pebble Heart promised. “And I’ve 
spoken to Dappled Pelt and Cloud Spots. They’ve 
agreed to visit WindClan regularly in case anyone is 
injured or sick while Moth Flight’s recovering.” 

Moth Flight lifted her head. “That’s kind, but 
there’s no need. I’ve shared everything I know with 
Reed Tail. He’ll be able to look after WindClan.” 

Pebble Heart blinked. “You’ve been busy!” 

“I just wanted to be prepared.” Moth Flight 
suddenly realized that, for the past moon, she’d been 
thinking about the future again. The grief that had 
dragged her into helpless despair after Micah’s death 
had finally eased as she planned a new life around her 
kits. And now they were here, each one perfect, and 
her heart felt as full of love as it had been when Micah 
was alive. She purred loudly, joy leaping in her chest as 
her kits purred with her. She suddenly remembered her 
conversation with Sun Shadow. 

I will never feel like I’ve gained more than I’ve 
lost. 

Maybe not. But you will come to value what you 
still have, and what you may have in the future. 

She looked at Pebble Heart. “When you go home, 


tell Sun Shadow he was right.” 





CHAPTER 27 
+ 


Moth Flight dreamed. 

Warm wind tugged her fur as she raced upslope 
and the coarse grass grew soft beneath her paws as 
she neared the moortop. She stopped as she reached 
the crest. Meadows rolled below her, stretching toward 
forest, and a river sparkled in the distance as it 
disappeared among the trees. 

Where am I? This wasn’t the moor. 

The scent of prey washed her muzzle. A rabbit 
was grazing calmly on the grass a few tail-lengths 
ahead. Moth Flight imagined carrying it home to her 
kits. They were almost old enough for their first taste 
of fresh-kill She swallowed back a purr as she 
imagined Bubbling Stream’s eyes lighting up at the 
sight of it. Spider Paw would be first to beg for a taste. 
Blue Whisker would hang back shyly, but Honey Pelt 
would make sure she had a piece before he’d take a 
bite. 

Her heart ached with love for her kits as she 
thought of them. They were perfect. Even Spider 


Paw’s extra toe, which he’d been named for, was 
adorable. 

She dropped into a hunting crouch and began to 
stalk silently through the grass. The rabbit didn’t even 
twitch as she neared. This is going to be an easy 
catch. 

Yellow fur flashed at the edge of her vision. Moth 
Flight jerked her muzzle around, her breath stopping in 
her throat as she saw Micah padding toward her. The 
rabbit, still blissfully unaware, hopped lazily away. 
Moth Flight let it go, her gaze fixed on Micah. 

“Can you see me?” She hardly dared speak. No 
one ever heard her in her dreams. The last time she’d 
dreamed of Micah, he’d been wandering in mist, 
unable to see her. But this time Micah’s eyes were 
fixed on her, sparkling green in the bright sunshine and 
filled with love. 

As he neared her, he quickened his pace until his 
scent bathed her. She closed her eyes, her heart 
pounding. Was she really going to speak with him? His 
whiskers grazed her cheek as he reached her. 

“T have missed you so much.” His words were soft 
in her ear. 


She purred, rubbing her cheek fiercely against his. 
“T thought I’d die without you.” 

“I'm glad you didn’t.” He drew away and looked 
at her, his eyes shining. “I’ve seen the kits. I’ve 
watched you with them. You are a wonderful mother.” 

Joy surged beneath her pelt. “Aren’t they 
gorgeous? They remind me so much of you. Honey 
Pelt even washes his paws the same way you did.” 

“Keep an eye on Blue Whisker,” he fretted. “She’s 
so shy. Don’t let the others push her around.” 

“They won't,” Moth Flight promised. “They’re 
protective of her. Especially Spider Paw. He won’t let 
Slate’s kits near her because she’s scared of them.” 

Micah frowned. “They haven’t hurt her, have 
they?” 

Moth Flight purred. “No, of course not. But she 
can’t understand why such big cats act like kits. I keep 
telling her they're still kits. I don’t think she believes 
she’ll be that big too in a few moons.” 

Micah’s green gaze darkened. “I wish I were 
there.” Grief edged his mew. 

It caught hold of Moth Flight, twisting her heart. 
“So do I.” She hadn’t felt anger since she'd left 


ShadowClan’s camp, but rage flared in her belly now. 
“It's not fair! Why did you have to die? In a dumb 
accident!” 

Micah sighed and rested his muzzle against hers. 
“It was my destiny.” 

She pulled away, blinking at him. “Did you know all 
along?” 

“No, but I see that our destinies were only ever 
meant to cross for a short time.” His eyes glistened 
with love. “Aren't we lucky they did? Now you have 
our kits.” 

“But I want you too!” Moth Flight couldn't push 
away her resentment. 

Micah gazed at her gravely. “You must travel alone 
from here on. This is your path. But I will always be 
with you.” 

Her vision swam with grief. “How?” 

“I will be in your thoughts and your heart and your 
dreams,” he murmured. “You will see me in the kits 
and if you need me, you only need to close your eyes.” 

Moth Flight's throat tightened. /s that enough? 
She touched her nose to his softly. It would have to be. 

Around her, the meadows began to grow hazy. 


Micah’s pelt grew pale, light showing through. 

“Don't go yet!” she begged. 

“Yow ll see me again,” he promised, his mew 
growing faint. 

“Micah!” 

“Someone is coming to visit you.” She could barely 
hear his mew as it faded into echo. “You must help 
her. I’m depending on you.” 

“Who?” She spoke into darkness as the dream 
faded. 

Jerking awake, she lifted her head. The kits 
fidgeted at her belly, asleep in the starlight that filtered 
through the gorse. 

Moth Flight’s heart ached with longing, but warmth 
enfolded her. J will always be with you. As she 
remembered his words, his scent lingered on her 
tongue. With a gasp, she recognized the meadows in 
her dreams—StarClan’s hunting grounds! He's in 
StarClan. A purr rumbled in her throat. Now I know 
that we will never be far apart. 


“Go faster!” Bubbling Stream’s fur spiked with 
excitement as she clung to Storm Pelt’s shoulders. 
Storm Pelt bounded across the tussocks and 


Bubbling Stream mewled with delight. 

“Be careful!” Moth Flight watched with wide eyes 
from the sunny patch of grass outside her den. 

Beside her, Slate purred. “She’ll be fine,” she 
reassured Moth Flight. 

“She’s only a moon old!” Moth Flight worried. 
“Aren’t badger rides dangerous?” 

Blue Whisker nestled tighter against her belly. “I 
don’t ever want a badger ride,” she breathed, staring in 
alarm at her sister as she bobbed on Storm Pelt’s back. 

Moth Flight tucked her tail over Blue Whisker, 
relieved that at least one kit was staying close. 

Spider Paw was crouching in the sandy hollow. 
Silver Stripe crouched beside him, while Black Ear 
paced in front, advising him on his stance. 

“Hindquarters lower,” the black-and-white tom-kit 
told him. “And keep your tail still or the prey will hear 
you coming.” 

Silver Stripe fidgeted impatiently. “Can we jump 
yet?” she begged. 

“Not until you’ve got the perfect crouch,” Black 
Ear told her sternly. 

“Ts this right?” Spider Paw pressed his chin closer 


to the ground and stared fiercely ahead. 

“Quite good,” Black Ear conceded. “Pull your hind 
paws in tighter, or your takeoff will be clumsy.” 

Wheres Honey Pelt? Alarm flashed through Moth 
Flight. She scanned the camp, relief swamping her as 
she caught sight of his yellow pelt as he burrowed 
under the heather wall on the far side of the camp. 

White Tail was beside him, squeezing under the 
branches. 

Moth Flight frowned. Keeping an eye on four kits 
seemed far more exhausting than it should be. “What 
are those two doing?” 

“White Tail promised to show him all the secret 
ways out of camp,” Slate told her. 

“I hope he’s not thinking of sneaking out.” Moth 
Flight remembered hauling Silver Stripe out of the 
rabbit hole all those moons ago. How had she been so 
calm? Dread gouged at her belly as she imagined one 
of her own kits stuck on the moor and wailing for help. 
She pushed the thought away. She wasn’t going to let 
her kits out of her sight. 

She felt a wave of gratitude toward her 
Clanmates. Among them, someone was always 


keeping an eye on Bubbling Stream, Honey Pelt, 
Spider Paw, and Blue Whisker. Even Holly, who was 
watching Bubbling Stream now, her eyes narrow with 
disapproval, always knew where they were and what 
they were up to. 

Reed Tail nosed his way out of the den that Eagle 
Feather and Dew Nose had hollowed from the heather 
wall of the camp. They had grown too big to share 
Jagged Peak and Holly’s den and had moved into their 
own with Storm Pelt. 

Reed Tail padded across the clearing and paused in 
front of Moth Flight. “Dew Nose has wrenched a 
paw,” he told her. “She slipped in a rabbit hole while 
she was hunting. Shall I use up the comfrey from your 
herb store or pick fresh?” 

“Use what we’ve got for now and pick some fresh 
later,’ Moth Flight told him. 

He nodded and ducked into the gorse den behind 
her. Reed Tail had been busy taking care of the Clan’s 
cuts and sprains over the past moon. Moth Flight had 
tried to keep an eye on her Clanmates’ well-being, but 
every time she left the den to check how a scratch 
was healing or a sore belly was responding to the 


chervil Reed Tail had given, one of her kits would start 
mewling with hunger or squeal for help as they climbed 
the den wall and got stuck among the branches. It 
seemed that the moment she set paw in the clearing, a 
desperate wail would call her back. 

“You need to be tougher,” Slate had told her many 
times. “Let them wail. They're safe in camp. They’ll 
survive while you check on your Clanmates.” 

But Moth Flight couldn’t relax. They ’ve lost their 
father! She couldn’t bear for them to be without their 
mother as well. 

“They have a whole Clan to raise them,” Slate had 
insisted. 

I dont want to be like you, Moth Flight had 
thought. She ignored the truth that Silver Pelt, Black 
Ear, and White Tail had grown into happy young cats 
despite their grieving mother. The Clan had indeed 
raised them, giving Slate’s kits all that kits ever needed: 
warmth, kindness, food, and protection. My kits are 
special, Moth Flight told herself. No other cat can 
give them the love that I can. 

And so she let Reed Tail care for the Clan and told 
herself that in another half-moon, she’d be ready to 


return to her duties as medicine cat. 

Slate nudged her from her thoughts with a paw. 
“Look!” 

Wind Runner and Jagged Peak had padded into 
camp. Dappled Pelt and Acorn Fur walked between 
the WindClan cats, glancing at each other with puzzled 
looks. Wind Runner’s expression was grim. Jagged 
Peak’s ears twitched uneasily. 

Moth Flight sat up, alarmed. 

Gently moving Blue Whisker aside, she got to her 
paws. What were Dappled Pelt and Acorn Fur doing 
here, and why were Wind Runner and Jagged Peak 
escorting them like prisoners? She crossed the 
clearing, meeting Wind Runner among the tussocks. 
“Is something wrong?” 

Her mother’s eyes were dark. 

“I found these two wandering across the moor,” 
she growled. 

“We weren’t wandering,” Dappled Pelt objected. 

“We were coming to see Moth Flight,’ Acorn Fur 
chipped in. 

Moth Flight glanced at the SkyClan medicine cat. 
Resentment tugged at her belly. You’ve taken Micah 5 


place. She swallowed back her bitterness and met her 
mother’s gaze. “Why shouldn’t they cross the moor?” 

Jagged Peak lashed his tail. “How can you ask that 
after everything Clear Sky’s done lately?” 

Moth Flight faced the tom. “What has he done?” 

“He keeps sending hunting patrols onto our land!” 
Jagged Peak bristled. 

Wind Runner growled. “Willow Tail and Jagged 
Peak found more rabbit remains on the border this 
morning.” 

“Willow Tail spends too much time checking 
borders,” Moth Flight snapped. “She should be hunting 
for her Clan, not searching for gossip.” 

Wind Runner flattened her ears. “Prey theft is 
more than gossip!” 

Acorn Fur’s tail twitched crossly. “Clear Sky 
hasn’t sent hunting patrols!” 

Jagged Peak curled his lip. “Then why do we keep 
finding signs of fresh-kill on the moor?” 

Acorn Fur stood her ground. “How do you know 
SkyClan left them?” 

Moth Flight’s paw prickled with anger. What a 
dumb argument! Greenleaf was only just beginning. No 


cat was hungry. Who cared whether prey was left on 
one side of a border or another? She glared at Wind 
Runner. “This has nothing to do with Dappled Pelt and 
Acorn Fur!” she snapped. “They are medicine cats, 
not hunters.” Blue Whisker scrambled across the 
clearing. “Moth Flight!” she mewed as she reached 
her mother. “Why does Wind Runner look so cross?” 

Jagged Peak glared at Acorn Fur. “Because 
SkyClan cats are thieves and liars.” 

Blue Whisker looked at Jagged Peak with round, 
anxious eyes. “Micah was a SkyClan cat. Did he lie 
too?” 

Jagged Peak stared at the kit, his pelt rippling 
uneasily. “T never knew him,” he mumbled. 

Wind Runner shifted her paws. “Perhaps we 
should save this discussion for another time.” 

“Perhaps we should not have it at all!” Moth Flight 
snapped. She dipped her head to Acorn Fur and 
Dappled Pelt. “I’m sorry about my Clanmates. They 
think borders are worth fighting over.” She glanced at 
Blue Whisker. “Go back to Slate, dear. I have to speak 
with our visitors.” 

Blue Whisker blinked at her mother. “Will you be 


long?” 

“No,” Moth Flight promised. She guided Dappled 
Pelt and Acorn Fur toward the stones beside the 
entrance. She could feel Jagged Peak’s gaze burning 
into her pelt. “Is something wrong?” She lowered her 
voice as they reached the rocks. 

“Nothing,” Dappled Pelt assured her. The 
tortoiseshell’s gaze drifted after Blue Whisker as she 
scrambled down into the sandy hollow beside her 
brother. “Your kits are beautiful.” 

Moth Flight followed her gaze, her heart swelling. 
Beside the hollow, Bubbling Stream was still urging 
Storm Pelt to go faster. “They remind me so much of 
Micah.” 

“They have his spirit.” 

Acorn Fur’s words surprised her. “What do you 
know about Micah’s spirit?” Moth Flight questioned. 

Acorn Fur dropped her gaze, flinching as though 
Moth Flight had raked her muzzle. “I worked with 
him,” she mewed quietly. “He was my friend and I 
miss him.” 

“We all miss him,” Moth Flight snapped pointedly. 
Jealousy bristled through her pelt. 


“He spoke about you all the time.” Acorn Fur lifted 
her gaze cautiously. “He loved you very much. I'm 
sorry that you lost him.” 

Moth Flight blinked, surprised by the warmth in 
Acorn Fur’s mew. Its too late to be nice! She wasn't 
going to forgive the SkyClan cat so easily. “You spied 
on him!” 

Dappled Pelt’s tail flicked uneasily. “Moth Flight, I 
think you’re being unfair—” 

Acorn Fur interrupted. “You’re right. Clear Sky 
ordered me to watch him. But I knew, after the first 
day, that Micah could be trusted. He cared about his 
Clanmates right from the start. I enjoyed working with 
him. And I loved helping. One time, Blossom got a 
thorn in her paw. It was really deep. Micah had to dig 
around for ages to get it out. He talked to her the 
whole time, distracting her with jokes and stories of 
when he was a farm cat. He showed me that there 
was more to being a medicine cat than learning herbs. 
You don’t just care about the wound; you must care 
about the cat.” Her eyes rounded. “He said that’s why 
StarClan chose you. Because you always knew that 
better than anyone.” 


Moth Flight stared at her. She suddenly understood 
why Micah had liked Acorn Fur so much. She was 
kind and honest and open. Moth Flight dropped her 
gaze, her pelt prickling with guilt. How could she have 
judged Acorn Fur so harshly? She hardly knew her. 
“Thank you,” she murmured. 

Dappled Pelt glanced to where Wind Runner and 
Jagged Peak were crouched beside the camp wall, 
watching their visitors through slitted eyes. “We came 
here for a reason,” she mewed. “Acorn Fur has 
learned all she can from me and Cloud Spots. Pebble 
Heart has shared all he knows. Now it’s your turn to 
train her, just as we trained you.” 

Moth Flight’s ear twitched nervously. “But I have 
kits now.” 

“You’re still a medicine cat,’ Dappled Pelt 
reminded her. She glanced back at the kits. They were 
playing happily with their Clanmates, Slate watching 
them fondly. “It looks like there are plenty of cats to 
take care of them while you’re busy.” 

Worry jabbed Moth Flight’s belly. “I need to take 
care of them. They don’t have a father.” 

Acorn Fur shifted her paws before she spoke. 


“Micah wants you to train me.” 

Surprise rippled along Moth Flights spine. 
Someone is coming to visit you. Micah’s words 
echoed in her mind. You must help her I’m 
depending on you. He’d meant Acorn Fur! “How do 
you know?” she demanded. 

“I dreamed about him,” Acorn Fur told her. “He 
told me to come to you and that you would teach me 
all I needed to learn.” 

Moth Flight blinked at her. Acorn Fur must be 
SkyClan’s rightful medicine cat if StarClan visited her 
dreams. “But what about Wind Runner and Clear Sky? 
Will they want a WindClan cat traming a SkyClan 
cat?” 

Acorn Fur shrugged. “They don’t need to know.” 

Dappled Pelt nodded. “They don’t understand the 
bond between us. They are hunters, not healers. They 
only understand prey.” 

Moth Flight dipped her head. Micah wanted her to 
train Acorn Fur, and he was part of StarClan now. She 
couldn’t go against StarClan’s wishes. And she didn’t 
want to disappoint Micah. “Okay.” She glanced 
longingly at her kits. Blue Whisker had returned to 


Slate’s side and curled up against her. Bubbling Stream 
had slid off Storm Pelt’s back and was helping Spider 
Paw catch imaginary prey in the sandy hollow. Honey 
Pelt was chasing White Tail toward another gap in the 
heather wall. They could manage without her for a 
while. “We might as well start now.” 


“Where have you been?” 

Wind Runner’s accusing mew took Moth Flight by 
surprise as she padded into camp. The sun was sinking 
toward the horizon and shooting long shadows across 
the clearing. 

Moth Flight dropped the bundle of comfrey she’d 
gathered. “Training Acorn Fur.” I’m not going to lie 
about it. 

“Why you?” Wind Runner’s hackles lifted. “Surely 
you understand that SkyClan cats are no longer our 
friends.” 

“Why not?” Moth Flight demanded. 

“They’ve been stealing our prey.” Wind Runner 
narrowed her eyes. “And I’m sending patrols across 
their border to hunt.” 

“What?” Moth Flight stared at her. Did her mother 
want to cause a war? 


Wind Runner lifted her chin stiffly. “It’s important 
that we show them they can’t steal from us without 
consequences.” 

“Has anyone actually seen SkyClan stealing our 
prey?” Moth Flight demanded. 

“Willow Tail says she saw Red Claw carrying a 
rabbit over the border yesterday.” 

“And you believe her?” How could her mother be 
so naive? “Willow Tail hates Red Claw.” 

“That doesn’t make her a liar!” Wind Runner 
lashed her tail. “It’s not just Willow Tail who’s seen 
evidence. Fern Leaf caught Red Claw’s scent on our 
territory. Slate and Jagged Peak have seen bones too. 
Are they lars?” 

Of course not. But even if SkyClan cats caught a 
rabbit or two on WindClan territory—who cared? Still, 
Moth Flight swallowed back anger. She didn’t want to 
get drawn into her mother’s argument with SkyClan. 
Her duty was to heal cats, not fight with them. “I’m 
going to teach Acorn Fur what I know,” she mewed 
stubbornly. 

Wind Runner’s pelt prickled. “I’m just worried 
about you, Moth Flight. If Clear Sky catches you with 


one of his cats, who knows what he’ll do? I’ve known 
him a long time. He’s capable of more cruelty than you 
can imagine.” 

“Then it’s important that his medicine cat is well 
trained,” Moth Flight argued. “If she can earn his 
respect, she may be able to guide him.” 

“No one has ever managed to guide Clear Sky 
before,” Wind Runner pointed out. 

“Acorn Fur has StarClan on her side. They want 
me to train her.” 

“They spoke to you?” 

“Micah did,’ Moth Flight told her. “He spoke to 
Acorn Fur too.” 

“Micah’s not StarClan!” 

Moth Flight’s throat tightened. “He is now.” 

Wind Runner gazed at her helplessly. “Then you’re 
going to keep on training her?” 

“Yes.” Moth Flight scooped up the comfrey and 
headed for her den. If Micah wanted her to train 
Acorn Fur, then nothing would stop her. 


As the days lengthened, Moth Flight kept her 
word. Each afternoon, she’d leave Slate in charge of 
her kits and slip out of camp. She was aware of Wind 


Runner’s gaze following her, dark with worry. But she 
ignored it, racing to the patch of grass on the moorside 
where she met Acorn Fur. 

This afternoon, clouds hid the sun and a thin drizzle 
misted the moor. Moth Flight fluffed out her pelt, 
hoping Slate would keep the kits in the den. The air 
was warm, but a wet pelt could mean a chill She was 
getting used to being away from them, but she enjoyed 
their welcome each time she returned home, when 
they’d clamber over her, purring and begging for 
badger rides or a game of chase-tail. 

She blinked away raindrops and scanned the 
moorside. There was no sign of Acorn Fur and no 
scent either. She glanced at the darkening sky, 
wondering whether, with the sun hidden, the SkyClan 
medicine cat had lost track of time. 

Acorn Fur was a quick learner, just as Micah had 
said. And she seemed to have a deep understanding of 
suffering as well as a burning need to ease it. Teaching 
such a willing apprentice had been fulfilling and, in 
going over her knowledge in such depth, Moth Flight 
had renewed her own delight in her healing skills. Was 
it time she relieved Reed Tail of some of his duties? 


She frowned. She already felt that she spent too much 
time away from her kits. 

She gazed toward the forest, impatience fizzing 
beneath her pelt. Where are you? It wasn’t like Acorn 
Fur to be late. She was usually pacing the hillside, 
waiting, by the time Moth Flight arrived. 

Unease jabbed her belly. 

Perhaps Acorn Fur couldn t come. 

Her fur tingled with worry. Had Clear Sky found 
out about their meetings? 

He cant stop her from learning! She headed 
downslope as the rain thickened, heading for the 
SkyClan border. Does he think his wishes are more 
important than StarClan ss? Anger pulsed through her 
paws as she crossed the wet grass. 

The pungent scent of SkyClan markers washed 
her muzzle as she neared the ferns that edged the 
trees. She pushed through the dripping fronds. Padding 
into the shelter of the woods, she glanced around, 
wondering where SkyClan’s camp lay. She had to 
know where Acorn Fur was. If Clear Sky was 
stopping her, someone needed to explain to the rabbit- 
brained leader how important it was for his medicine 


cat to learn everything she could. 

Sniffing the ground, she smelled paw prints and 
began to follow them. They must eventually lead to the 
camp. She trailed around a bramble and between two 
fallen trees. Ducking beneath a branch, she smelled 
more paw prints. She must be getting close. She could 
see a glade ahead where rain dripped through the 
canopy. 

I hope he hasnt hurt her. She suddenly 
remembered her mother’s warning. Hes capable of 
more cruelty than you can imagine. Moth Flight 
pushed the words away. She wasn’t going to be 
bullied. She had StarClan on her side. 

As she slid through a clump of ferns, a hiss made 
her freeze. 

Tortoiseshell fur flashed at the corner of her vision. 
Something hard slammed into her flank and knocked 
her, sprawling, to the ground. 

Panic flared beneath Moth Flight’s pelt as she 
scrambled to her paws. The scent of a SkyClan she- 
cat filled the air. Jerking around, she saw Sparrow Fur 
glaring at her, hackles raised. 

“What are you doing on SkyClan land?” The 


tortoiseshell’s eyes flashed with suspicion. 

“Tm Moth Flight!” she growled. 

“I know who you are,” the tortoiseshell returned. 

“Then you know that Pm a medicine cat! I can 
walk where I please.” 

“No one walks in this forest without Clear Sky’s 
permission!” Sparrow Fur growled. 

“Since when?” 

“Since he said so!” 

Frustration surged in Moth Flight’s belly. “I’ve 
come to find Acorn Fur.” Perhaps if she explained that 
she was worried about her Clanmate, Sparrow Fur 
would understand. 

“Acorn Fur is in camp, doing what she’s supposed 
to do.” 

“Which is?” she demanded. 

“Taking care of her Clanmates!” 

“But I haven’t finished training her!” 

Sparrow Fur’s tail swished ominously. “She’s had 
all the training she’s going to get.” 

Moth Flight didn’t understand. “Don’t you want 
her to be the best medicine cat she can be?” Just 
because Clear Sky was a rabbit-brain, didn’t mean his 


whole Clan had to act dumb! 

“What J want doesn’t matter,’ Sparrow Fur 
snarled. “Clear Sky is my leader. I follow his orders. 
And his orders are that no cat should cross our border. 
Especially not a WindClan cat.” 

Fury scorched Moth Flight’s belly. “I’m not here to 
hunt! StarClan ordered me to tram Acorn Fur and 
that’s what I’m going to do.” She headed past Sparrow 
Fur. 

The SkyClan she-cat dodged ahead of her. 

She glared at the tortoiseshell angrily. “Get out of 
my way! I have to—” She stopped, surprised to see 
worry clouding Sparrow Fur’s gaze. 

“You have to leave!” Lowering her voice, Sparrow 
Fur glanced nervously over her shoulder. 

“Why?” 

“Clear Sky will rip you to shreds if you reach the 
camp,” she warned. “And then he’ll rip me to shreds 
for letting you.” 

Moth Flight halted. “He hasn’t hurt Acorn Fur, has 
he?” 

“No!” Sparrow Fur looked indignant. “But he’s 
angry that she’s been sneaking onto WindClan land to 


train with you. How can he prove that we don’t cross 
the border if she trails SkyClan scent all over the 
moorside?” 

“But you do cross the border!” Moth Flight 
accused. “Willow Tail's seen you.” 

“She hasn't seen me?’ Sparrow Fur snapped. 
“SkyClan cats don’t hunt on other Clans’ land. Not like 
WindClan. We found Jagged Peak’s fur caught on a 
bramble this morning. And fresh-kill blood less than a 
tai-length away.” 

Moth Flight growled under her breath. Wind 
Runner must have sent him to teach Clear Sky a 
lesson. She’d only made the situation worse. 

“But I’m a medicine cat!” she insisted. “We need 
to be able to travel in each other’s territory. How else 
will I get catmint from Twolegplace? And how can 
Acorn Fur get to the Moonstone without crossing the 
moor?” 

“That’s not my problem.” Sparrow Fur began to 
guide Moth Flight toward the border. 

“What if something happens to Acorn Fur and you 
need my help?” Reluctantly, Moth Flight let Sparrow 
Fur steer her back along the trail. The tortoiseshell 


clearly wasn’t going to let her pass without a fight, and 
she didn’t want to get her into trouble with Clear Sky. 

“Nothing’s going to happen to Acorn Fur so long as 
she stops training with you.” 

Moth Flight blinked at the tortoiseshell as they 
reached the border. “This is the dumbest decision 
ever!” 

Sparrow Fur flicked her tail toward the moor. “Just 
go home!” 

Moth Flight saw doubt in her gaze. “You think he’s 
wrong, don’t you?” 

Sparrow Fur looked away. “He’s my leader,” she 
growled and stalked back into the forest. 

Blood roared in Moth Flight’s ears. If the Clans 
started guarding their territory like this, how could the 
medicine cats share their knowledge? Half Moon’s 
word rang in her mind. Every Clan s destiny depends 
on you, though they dont know it yet. Why didn’t 
Clear Sky understand? His medicine cat had to go 
where she was needed. There will come a time when 
they will listen to you and you alone. I can tell you 
this, but its up to you to earn their respect. 

How? Helplessness swamped Moth Flight. She 


had to persuade Wind Runner and Clear Sky that cats’ 
lives were more important than borders. StarClan, 
what can I do? 





CHAPTER 28 
+ 


Moth Flight threaded among the rustling bracken 
stems, following her Clanmates into Fourtrees, where 
the full moon blanched the clearing. 

The scents of RiverClan and ThunderClan swirled 
on the warm evening breeze. She scanned the cats 
below, recognizing Thunder and River Ripple moving 
among the gathered cats, dipping their heads in 
greeting, while their Clanmates clustered in groups, 
heads close as they shared gossip. 

Silver Stripe and Black Ear stampeded past Moth 
Flight, White Tail leading, their tails flapping excitedly. 
It was their first fullimoon Gathering. They’d been 
restless all day, excited at the thoughts of seeing new 
faces and smelling new scents. 

“Slow down!” Slate hurried at their heels, her fur 
rippling anxiously along her spine as her kits burst into 
the clearing. 

Eyes flashed in the moonlight as muzzles jerked 
around, clearly surprised by the commotion. 

Slate dodged in front of White Tail, hissing sternly. 


“Calm down. I don’t want RiverClan and ThunderClan 
thinking I raised a pack of foxes!” 

As the bracken thinned around her, Moth Flight’s 
thoughts flashed to her own kits back in camp. Rocky 
had promised to watch them and make sure they were 
tucked in their nest by the time she returned. Spotted 
Fur and Holly had also stayed behind with Eagle 
Feather, Fern Leaf, Reed Tail, and Storm Pelt. With 
border tensions running high, Wind Runner had not 
wanted to leave the camp unguarded and, for once, 
Moth Flight was grateful for her mother’s caution. 

Not that she believed SkyClan would attack. But if 
a stray dog or hungry fox found their way into camp, 
she knew her kits would be well protected. 

This was her first Gathering in moons, and the first 
time she’d see the other medicine cats together since 
the last time she’d traveled to the Moonstone with 
Micah. She quickened her pace, falling in beside Dust 
Muzzle. Her Clanmates flanked them, moving 
wordlessly through the bracken. There was tension in 
their hunched shoulders and flicking tails as they 
neared the bottom of the slope. Wind Runner led the 
way into the clearing, her eyes narrowed. Moth Flight 


knew that her mother had come to settle scores, and 
anxiety wormed in her belly. Please let her remember 
the full-moon truce. 

She glanced at the brambly slope at the other side 
of the clearing, looking for signs of SkyClan. But Clear 
Sky hadn’t arrived yet and the woods beyond were 
eerily silent. 

“Moth Flight!” Following Dust Muzzle from the 
bracken, she recognized Dappled Pelt’s mew. The 
RiverClan medicine cat was hurrying toward her, 
Cloud Spots at her heels. 

As Dust Muzzle followed Wind Runner into the 
throng of cats, Dappled Pelt stopped in front of Moth 
Flight. Her eyes shone. “How are the kits?” 

“They’re well,’ Moth Flight told her. In the moon 
since they’d been born, they’d grown more boisterous 
each day. Even Blue Whisker had started exploring the 
camp with her littermates. Only that morning, the 
yellow-and-white she-kit had climbed the stones beside 
the camp entrance and called to Moth Flight from the 
top, her fur fluffed with delight. 

Cloud Spots jerked Moth Flight from the memory, 
flicking his tail happily. “Dappled Pelt says they have 


Micah’s coloring.” 

“Honey Pelt looks just like him,” Moth Flight told 
him proudly. 

Cloud Spots purred. “I’m sure Micah’s watching 
them from StarClan.” 

He is. Happiness surged through Moth Flight as 
she remembered her dream. 

Silver Stripe’s excited mew sounded behind her. 
“Please can we talk to the others?” 

She turned to see the pale tabby pacing around her 
brothers. Black Ear was staring wide-eyed at the 
gathered cats, while White Tail gazed around 
thoughtfully, his nose twitching. 

“RiverClan cats smell funny,” he commented. 

“Hush!” Slate lowered her voice. “They smell a bit 
fishy, that’s all.” 

“I want to ask them if they really swim!” Silver 
Stripe whispered. 

Moth Flight nodded toward a pair of RiverClan 
cats. “Go and talk to Drizzle.” She’d spotted the gray- 
and-white she-kit—a young cat now—standing beside 
her brother. 

Pine Needle had grown; his shoulders were 


broader and his black pelt was as sleek as an otter’s. 
He stared around the clearing, his eyes round. Moth 
Flight wondered if it was his first Gathering too. 

Silver Stripe padded impatiently around Slate. “Can 
we?” she begged. 

But Black Ear was already crossing the clearing 
toward the young RiverClan cats. 

Slate’s ears twitched. “Of course.” 

Silver Stripe hared after her brother, White Tail at 
her heels. 

“Don’t forget to be polite!” Slate called after them. 

Dappled Pelt watched the young cats race away. 
“Gray Wing would have been proud of them.” 

Slate blinked at her sadly. “He always wanted kits 
of his own,” she murmured. “T just wish he’d had a 
chance to watch them grow up.” 

Moth Flight swept her tail along Slate’s spine. 
“He’s probably watching them right now.” Just like 
Micah watches over our kits. 

Wind Runner’s angry mew rang across the 
clearing. She faced Thunder, her eyes flashing 
accusingly in the moonlight. “I knew you’d defend 
him.” 


River Ripple padded between the two leaders. 
“We should wait and let Clear Sky speak for himself.” 

Wind Runner scowled. “We’ve heard enough lies 
from him.” 

As she spoke, grass swished at the top of the 
hollow. Lithe bodies swarmed down the far slope. 

Clear Sky? Moth Flight stiffened. Would Wind 
Runner manage to keep her temper? Would she openly 
accuse the SkyClan leader of sending hunting patrols 
onto their land? And what would happen when Clear 
Sky accused her in return? 

ShadowClan scent washed over her and she 
recognized Tall Shadow’s pelt, hardly more than a 
shadow in the long grass. 

Dappled Pelt eyed Moth Flight anxiously. “Are 
there still hunting disputes between WindClan and 
SkyClan?” 

“Yes.” Moth Flight’s pelt prickled. “Clear Sky has 
banned any cat from crossing his borders.” 

Cloud Spots blinked. “How will you fetch catmint 
from Twolegplace?” 

Dappled Pelt didn’t give her a chance to answer. 
“What about Acorn Fur? Did you finish training her?” 


Moth Flight dropped her gaze guiltily. “I tried, but 
Clear Sky won’t let her leave and I can’t get past the 
border to see her.” She watched the ShadowClan cats 
weave among the waiting cats, greeting them with 
nods and flicks of their tail. Murmured gossip hummed 
in the evening air. 

Shattered Ice gazed grimly at Mud Paws. “Clear 
Sky’s patrolling his borders again.” 

“Pebble Heart was turned away when he tried to 
gather borage,” Juniper Branch told Milkweed. 

Moth Flight saw pelts ripple with apprehension. 
Milkweed glanced nervously toward the bramble- 
covered slope where SkyClan usually made its 
entrance. Dawn Mist moved closer to Drizzle and Pine 
Needle. 

Pebble Heart reached the medicine cats, his eyes 
round with worry. “I thought the prey dispute would 
have blown over by now, but it’s gotten worse.” 

Moth Flight’s ears twitched uneasily. “Clear Sky 
has stopped me from training Acorn Fur,” she told him. 
“He won’t let any cat cross his border. He’s been 
sending hunting patrols onto our land again.” 

Pebble Heart’s gaze darkened. 


“Sparrow Fur and Acorn Fur both say that Clear 
Sky hasnt sent hunting patrols onto our land but 
Willow Tail swears she’s seen Red Claw taking 
WindClan prey across the border.” Moth Flight glanced 
at Willow Tail. The pale tabby stood in a circle of 
ThunderClan and RiverClan cats, her eyes flashing 
with malice as she talked. Moth Flight’s belly 
tightened. Why was she so determined to stir up 
trouble? She lowered her voice. “Wind Runner’s 
started sending hunting patrols onto SkyClan land to 
teach Clear Sky a lesson.” 

Pebble Heart’s tail twitched. “This needs to stop 
now before it gets serious.” He glanced up the slope 
hopefully. “Perhaps when Clear Sky arrives we can 
talk some sense into him and Wind Runner.” 

Moth Flight’s heart lurched. “Do you think they’re 
ready to listen to us?” She glanced at Cloud Spots and 
Dappled Pelt. How much influence did any of them 
have over their leaders? 

Cloud Spots swished his tail “We speak for 
StarClan.” 

Dappled Pelt frowned. “From what I’ve heard, 
Clear Sky has no time for StarClan.” 


Pebble Heart glanced at the stars, sparkling high 
overhead. “They’re his ancestors as well as ours.” 

“We should hold the meeting without him!” Wind 
Runner’s angry mew rang once more across the 
clearing. As Moth Flight turned, the WindClan leader 
shouldered her way through the crowd and leaped onto 
the great rock. 

Wind Runner glared at Thunder, River Ripple, and 
Tall Shadow. “Why should we show him respect by 
waiting when he shows us none by being late?” She 
lashed her tail, her brown pelt pale in the moonlight. 
“He probably won’t come at all! That’s how little he 
values us.” 

Tall Shadow weaved past Juniper Branch and 
Milkweed, glancing at Sun Shadow before jumping up 
beside Wind Runner. River Ripple followed slowly, his 
pelt ruffled. Thunder hesitated, checking the SkyClan 
slope once more before leaping onto the rock. 

Wind Runner’s gaze swept the Clans as the cats 
crowded closer and raised their muzzles to their 
leaders. 

“We must treat Clear Sky as he has treated us!” 
she yowled. “If he wants to stop all cats from crossing 


his land, then we must turn our tails on him!” 

Thunder stared at her, ears twitching. “What do 
you mean?” 

“From now on, SkyClan is not one of us,” Wind 
Runner showed her teeth. “They do not exist. They 
must survive alone.” 

“No!” Thunder bristled. “Clear Sky must have 
closed his borders for a good reason. You say he’s 
being hostile. For all we know, he’s simply defending 
his land. You claim that SkyClan has stolen prey from 
you! But where’s your proof? They’re not even here 
to defend themselves.” 

River Ripple nodded. “Clear Sky should at least be 
given a fair hearing.” 

“Why?” Tall Shadow narrowed her eyes. “He 
hasn’t even shown up. Clearly, he doesn’t consider 
himself one of us. Of course you defend him, Thunder; 
he’s your father. But why should we doubt Wind 
Runner s word? She has never lied before. Clear Sky 
has been lying since he was a kit. Have you forgotten 
his treachery to Gray Wing? He started the Great 
Battle! We have been patient with him long enough! 
We will be stronger without SkyClan.” 


Stronger without SkyClan? Outrage surged in 
Moth Flight’s belly. Didn’t these cats realize that 
banishing a Clan would be like pulling a woven twig 
from a nest? Each twig made it strong. Once you 
began to unravel it, the whole nest might collapse. “We 
cannot turn our tails on another Clan!” She was 
shocked to hear her own voice ring loudly across the 
clearing. 

Eyes flashed toward her. 

Dappled Pelt lifted her chin. “We came from the 
mountains together. We share blood and memories.” 

“Unite or die!” Cloud Spots yowled. “Don’t you 
remember the Great Battle? The spirit-cats told us 
afterward that we could not live without each other.” 

“Unite or die!” Thunder stepped to the edge of the 
rock. “If we are to survive, we must act together. 
This dispute must be ended with words, not deeds.” 

“Words?” Wind Runner spat. “Since when did 
Clear Sky ever resolve anything with words? He only 
knows how to use his claws and this is the only way 
we can avoid battle. We must shun Clear Sky, before 
he starts another war.” 

Moth Flight stared at her mother. “What about the 


rest of SkyClan? It’s they who will suffer if we 
abandon them.” 

Willow Tail called from among the crowd. “How 
will they suffer? They won’t starve. They have enough 
prey in the forest.” 

Shattered Ice lifted his muzzle. “Clear Sky has 
always caused trouble for the Clans. Without him, we 
can have peace.” 

“But their medicine cat hasn’t finished her 
training!” Moth Flight whisked her tail angrily. “Who 
will care for their sick? And what if they need herbs 
that only grow beside the river, or on the moor? Do we 
turn them away and let their Clanmates die?” 

Juniper Branch spoke up. “The Clans must work 
together. I only survived my kitting because Moth 
Flight helped Pebble Heart. Now I have three healthy 
kits!” 

Muted murmurs of agreement rippled through the 
Clans. 

Willow Tail silenced them. “A few moons ago, we 
didn’t even have medicine cats! We survived then. 
We’ ll survive now!” 

Moth Flight swung her gaze toward the she-cat. 


“StarClan ordered us to care for our Clans. Would you 
go against StarClan?” 

“Why not?” Willow Tail snapped. “They're dead! 
They know nothing about the living.” 

“That’s not true!” Moth Flight lashed her tail. 
“They watch over us.” 

River Ripple nudged past Thunder, his eyes 
glittering with starlight. “StarClan brought peace. They 
see things we cannot.” He stared at Willow Tail. “Do 
you think you know better than they do?” 

Willow Tail looked away, her pelt rippling. 

Thunder glanced gratefully at the RiverClan leader. 
“We cannot make hasty decisions without speaking to 
Clear Sky.” 

Wind Runner growled. “It’s not your border that 
Clear Sky has crossed. It’s not your prey he’s stolen. 
It’s clear that he wants to push us into war. I am only 
suggesting a way that a battle might be avoided. By 
cutting him off, we are sending a strong message: We 
won’t fight with him. We will patrol our borders and 
protect our land, but we will not fight. He is on his 
own.” She glared suddenly at Moth Flight. “And that 
means medicine cats too. You will not share your 


knowledge with Acorn Fur. You must go to the 
Moonstone without her. She is forbidden from your 
meetings.” 

Moth Flight’s hackles lifted. You dont have the 
right to decide that! She opened her mouth to object 
but Wind Runner pressed on. 

“This is the best way to stop Clear Sky. You’ve 
seen him drag us into war before. Help me stop him 
from doing it again.” 

As her gaze swept beseechingly over the Clans, 
yowls of agreement filled the still night air. 

“Cut him off!” 

“Forget SkyClan!” 

Moth Flight blinked at her mother. Was she really 
going to deprive SkyClan of help and healing? What 
would StarClan say? She glanced around her 
Clanmates, disappointment weighing in her chest. Dew 
Nose and Swift Minnow were joining in with the 
cheering. 

Gorse Fur lifted his muzzle. “It’s the only way to 
avoid war!” 

Moth Flight stared at her father in disbelief. Wind 
Runner was hotheaded, but Gorse Fur had always 


tempered her rashness with reason. Why was he going 
along with this madness? 

A yowl sounded at the top of the hollow. The Clans 
fell silent, their eyes flashing as they turned to see who 
had called. 

Sparrow Fur was haring down the slope. “Help!” 

The gathered cats parted and let her race to the 
center. 

The tortoiseshell gazed around, her eyes wide with 
horror. “Where’s Moth Flight? Pebble Heart?” She 
scanned the Clans desperately. 

Moth Flight pushed her way through the cats, 
Pebble Heart at her heels. “What’s happened?” 

Sparrow Fur stared at her. “Tiny Branch is hurt! 
He got his paw trapped! There was a fox. We fought it 
off but Tiny Branch—” 

Dappled Pelt burst from the crowd. “Was he 
bitten?” 

Sparrow Fur nodded, her eyes wild. “It’s bad. 
We’ve carried him back to camp, but he's 
unconscious.” 

“Fox bites cause infection.” Cloud Spots nosed his 
way past Dappled Pelt. “They must be treated at 


once.” 

Sparrow Fur was trembling. “Acorn Fur can’t stop 
the bleeding.” 

Moth Flight’s heart lurched. Tiny Branch was less 
than six moons old. If the blood loss didn’t kill him, the 
shock might. “Come on.” She began to race for the 
side of the hollow. 

Wind Runner’s snarl made her stop. “Where are 
you going?” 

“I have to help Tiny Branch!” She skidded to a halt 
and glared at Wind Runner. 

“I told you! SkyClan is on their own!” Wind 
Runner’s eyes blazed with fury. 

“You decided that!” Moth Flight hissed. “I’m a 
medicine cat. I won’t stand by and let cats die.” 

Shocked mews sounded around her. 

“She can’t go!” 

“She must!” 

“What about the kits?” 

“That’s Clear Sky’s problem!” 

Shattered Ice blocked her path. “Clear Sky must 
learn that he can’t push the other Clans around.” 

Moth Flight flexed her claws. “Get out of my 


way.” 

A low growl rumbled behind her. Dust Muzzle 
stalked past and faced Shattered Ice. “Let her pass. 
Tiny Branch shouldn’t have to pay for his father 
mistakes.” He looked meaningfully at Thunder. 
Thunder dropped his gaze. “Let her go, Shattered 
Shattered Ice glared at Thunder, hackles raised. 
“You're not my leader.” 

“But I am.” River Ripple stepped forward. “Let 
her pass.” 

Growling, Shattered Ice backed away. 

Moth Flight glanced at Dust Muzzle. “Thank you.” 
Breaking into a run, she pelted up the slope. Sparrow 
Fur charged after her, Cloud Spots, Dappled Pelt, and 
Pebble Heart at his heels. 

Sparrow Fur dodged in front of her as they 
reached the top of the slope. “Follow me!” 

Zigzagging past brambles and leaping logs, she 
blazed a winding trail through the thick woodland. 
Moth Flight’s chest burned as she raced to keep up. 
Behind her, she could hear the thrumming paw steps of 
Cloud Spots, Dappled Pelt, and Pebble Heart. 


Ice 


As the forest floor began to slope down, she 
recognized the glade where Sparrow Fur had stopped 
her and sent her home only a few days earlier. The 
tortoiseshell crossed it and headed for a thick clump of 
brambles. Ducking through a small gap at one edge, 
she disappeared. Moth Flight narrowed her eyes 
against the prickly stalks and followed her through, 
surprised to find herself emerging into a small hollow 
edged by trees and lush ferns. 

Clear Sky stood in the center. Star Flower 
trembled beside him. The rest of SkyClan ringed 
around them, their horrified gazes fixed on a blood- 
soaked scrap of fur lying at Clear Sky’s paws. 

Tiny Branch! 

Moth Flight scrambled to a halt and crouched 
beside the kit. She could hear her own heart pounding 
in her ears as she swiftly scanned his body. There 
were deep teeth wounds on his flank. His hind paw 
was twisted and bloody, as though it had been yanked 
from a thorn bush. His eyes were closed, flickering 
slightly. His muzzle was clumped with dried blood. 

She smelled the sharp tang of horsetail and 
marigold rising from Tiny Branch’s wound. Dried 


green pulp showed on his bloody fur. Acorn Fur had 
clearly been trying to treat him for some time. Moth 
Flight glanced at Clear Sky. “Where’s Acorn Fur?” 

“She went to find cobwebs.” Clear Sky’s mew 
was tight. 

Moth Flight pictured the SkyClan medicine cat 
struggling alone to help Tiny Branch. Sympathy pricked 
at her heart. She wasn’t trained to deal with injuries as 
bad as this. She must be terrified. “She should have 
sent for help sooner.” 

Clear Sky’s tail twitched. “SkyClan doesn’t ask for 
help unless there’s no choice.” 

Did you stop her? Moth Flight angrily swallowed 
back the words. Picking a fight with Clear Sky 
wouldn’t help Tiny Branch. 

Star Flower didn’t wrench her gaze from her kit. 
“Will he be okay?” 

Moth Flight didn’t answer. “Where’s her herb 
store?” 

Clear Sky stared at her blankly. “I don’t think she 
has one.” 

Red Claw stepped forward. “She’s been gathering 
herbs for a while,” he told his leader. 


Moth Flight turned to the dark red tom. “Where 
are they?” 

Red Claw began to lead the way to a short steep 
slope where the roots of an oak snaked into the earth. 

As Moth Flight straightened to follow, she felt 
Dappled Pelt’s nose on her shoulder. 

“PI go with him.” 

“Bring every herb she’s got,” Moth Flight told her. 
She glanced at Pebble Heart. “What can we do?” She 
wasn’t sure which wound to treat first. 

Pebble Heart crouched beside Tiny Branch while 
Cloud Spots shooed the Clan backward, making room 
on the kit’s other side. 

Pebble Heart pressed his paws on the brightest 
wound, where blood was still welling. “We need to stop 
this bleeding first. It’s the worst injury.” 

Moth Flight slipped her paws under his. “T’Il press 
the blood back while you check the rest of him.” 
Warmth oozed under her pads. Fear flashed beneath 
her pelt, but she ignored it. 

Cloud Spots sniffed Tiny Branch’s mangled hind 
paw. “This needs wet nettles to take down the 
swelling.” 


Moth Flight looked toward the slope, relieved to 
see Dappled Pelt hurrying back, a wad of leaves in her 
jaws. 

“Are there any nettles in there?” Moth Flight 
asked as Dappled Pelt dropped the herbs beside her. 

“No.” Dapped Pelt began to sort through the pile. 
“It's mainly chervil and borage.” 

Moth Flight stiffened, frustration flarmg through 
her. If only she’d been allowed to finish trainng Acorn 
Fur! Her store would be fully stocked. She avoided 
Clear Sky’s gaze, swallowing back anger. Tiny Branch 
is his kit. This wasn’t the time to argue about borders. 

“There’s some thyme here.” Dappled Pelt mewed 
hopefully. 

Moth Flight frowned at the unconscious kit. “He 
can’t chew anything.” 

“We could put a sprig under his tongue,” Pebble 
Heart suggested. 

“That’s better than nothing.” Moth Flight pressed 
harder on the wound as Pebble Heart slipped a claw 
between Tiny Branch’s lips and very gently levered his 
jaws open. 

Alarm sparked in her belly. The kit’s breath was so 


weak she could hardly feel his flank move. He was as 
limp as dead prey. 

She watched, her mouth dry, as Pebble Heart slid a 
thyme stalk beneath the kit’s tongue. 

“You’re here!” Acorn Fur burst into camp. Moth 
Flight saw relief glistening in the SkyClan medicine 
cat’s gaze. Cobwebs swathed her forepaws and she 
hurried over and peeled them off. 

Pebble Heart took them from her and began 
stuffing shreds into the bloodiest wound. He nodded to 
Acorn Fur. “Put your paws here.” 

As she pressed the cobwebs deep into the bloody 
flesh, Pebble Heart ripped the remaining wad into two 
and gave one half to Cloud Spots. Between them, they 
wrapped every graze and bite they could see. 

Moth Flight leaned down and listened to Tiny 
Branch’s chest. There was no bubbling inside, but his 
heart was fluttering like a trapped bird, weak with 
exhaustion. Her belly tightened. 

She glanced at Star Flower. 

The golden tabby she-cat must have seen the 
despair in her gaze. She recoiled, pressing her muzzle 
into Clear Sky’s shoulder. 


Clear Sky’s dark gaze swept the medicine cats, 
then fixed on Moth Flight. “He’ll live, won’t he?” 

Tiny Branch suddenly whimpered. His eyes 
flickered open for a moment. Then he jerked, and fell 
still. 

Clear Sky stared at him, his mouth open. 

Moth Flight pressed her ear to Tiny Branch’s chest 
once again. 

Nothing. 

Her thoughts raced to her own kits. Were they 
safely tucked up with Rocky? What if a fox had gotten 
into the camp? What if one of them had wandered 
alone onto the moor? Panic tugged at her belly. She 
needed to see them. She had to know they were okay. 
But first she had to tell Clear Sky his son was dead. 

She looked at the SkyClan leader, pity twisting her 
heart. “I’m so sorry.” 

His eyes clouded. Pain flared in their blue depths. 
Moth Flight was startled to see the tough Clan leader 
sway on his paws. Star Flower rocked beside him, her 
nose buried deep in his pelt. 

Their Clanmates began to move around them. 
Blossom tugged a clump of damp moss from between 


the roots of a tree and carried it to Tiny Branch’s body. 
Gently she began to wipe the blood from his fur. Thorn 
and Quick Water pressed against Star Flower, 
supporting her as Clear Sky stepped away and 
crouched beside their dead kit. He rested his nose 
softly on the kit’s head. “I should have been there, my 
son. I should have saved you.” 

Moth Flight glanced at Acorn Fur. 

The SkyClan medicine cat was staring bleakly at 
her leader. Moth Flight got to her paws and pressed 
her nose to the brown she-cat’s cheek. “I don’t think 
any of us could have saved him,” she murmured. 

“If only Pd had more cobwebs in my den,” she 
mewed thickly. 

Pebble Heart straightened. “It would have taken 
more than cobwebs.” 

“He’s with StarClan now,” Dappled Pelt gazed 
sympathetically at Acorn Fur. “You did all you could.” 

The tugging in Moth Flight’s belly grew stronger. “I 
have to see my kits.” Guilt flashed through her as 
Clear Sky jerked up his nose and stared at her. “I’m 
sorry—” She began to apologize, but he cut her off. 

“Go to them,” he growled hoarsely. 


She backed toward the entrance, grief tearing at 
her heart. “I wish we could have come straight away.” 
Clear Sky’s gaze hardened. “Why didn’t you?” 

Moth Flight froze. She felt the anxious gazes of the 
other medicine cats flashed toward her. 

Sparrow Fur stepped forward. “Wind Runner 
didn’t want her to come,” she mumbled. “She said that 
SkyClan was on its own.” 

Clear Sky straightened, the muscles in his broad 
shoulders rippling. 

Star Flower padded forward shakily. “She was 
going to let a kit die?” 

“It’s not that simple.” Fear flashed through Moth 
Flight. She only wanted peace. “You need to speak 
with Wind Runner.” 

Star Flower’s green eyes brimmed with pain. She 
turned away. 

Clear Sky blinked at Moth Flight. “You should go,” 
he growled. “Your kits need you.” 

Her heart pounding, Moth Flight turned and raced 
out of camp. The scent of Tiny Branch’s blood lingered 
on her tongue. My kits! She had to know they were 
safe. She hared through the forest, her paws skidding 


on fallen leaves as she swerved among the brambles 
and ferns. She broke from the forest and pelted onto 
the moor. She needed to smell her kits and feel their 
warmth against her muzzle. Her gaze fixed on the 
distant hollow, she pushed against the coarse grass, 
racing breathlessly upslope. Bursting into camp, she 
bounded over the moonlit tussocks and ducked into her 
den. 

Rocky lifted his head sleepily and blinked at her. 
The kits were curled against his belly. “I told you I’d 
have them tucked up by the time you got home.” 

Peace enfolded Moth Flight as she gazed at her 
beautiful kits. Spider Paw stirred in his sleep, stretching 
a paw to rest it on Bubbling Stream’s muzzle. Bubbling 
Stream pushed it off and rolled over, a tiny whimper 
escaping as she snuggled against Blue Whisker’s pelt. 

Moth Flight padded closer, breathing in their milky 
scent. She closed her eyes and lifted her muzzle. 
Thank you, StarClan, for keeping them safe. 





CHAPTER 29 
+ 


“Slate!” Moth Flight called across the clearing. 
“Will you keep an eye on my kits while I check on 
Rocky?” 

Honey Pelt slid under her belly. “We don’t need 
anyone to watch us! We’re nearly two moons old.” 

Moth Flight smoothed his ruffled fur, sweeping her 
tail along his spine. “I just want to know someone’s 
looking out for you.” 

Spider Paw sniffed. “What can happen to us in 
camp?” 

Bubbling Stream was rolling in the sun-warmed 
earth of the sandy hollow, like a sparrow taking a dust 
bath. Blue Whisker watched her from the edge, her 
pelt pricking as though the thought of getting dusty 
horrified her. 

Slate looked up blearily from where she’d been 
dozing in the early morning sunshine. “I’m coming.” 
She got stiffly to her paws. 

Moth Flight guessed that last mght’s Gathering had 
left the she-cat sleepy. Her thick, gray fur looked 


matted, as though she hadn’t even washed. Moth 
Flight felt a flash of guilt. Perhaps she should let Slate 
rest. But Rocky had come to her den, just as Spotted 
Fur and Reed Tail were leaving for the dawn patrol. 
He’d been awake all night with aching joints. She had 
to help him. 

She glanced at Honey Pelt, her heart pricking as 
she remembered Tiny Branch. She wanted to gather 
her kits to her belly—as she had when they were 
newly born—and keep them safely wrapped against 
her. But they were growing. They wanted to run and 
explore. 

Rocky needs me more right now. 

Fighting to save Tiny Branch’s life had reminded 
her how important her duties were to her Clan. 
Leaders talked of border patrols and battles; medicine 
cats were the ones who had to heal the wounds 
afterward. Unease itched beneath her pelt; could she 
have saved Tiny Branch? What if Clear Sky had let 
Acorn Fur call her sooner? What if Wind Runner 
hadn’t delayed her at Fourtrees? What if I knew 
more? 

There was so much to be learned. She was 


determined to devote her life to her skill. It would help 
every cat. 

“Moth Flight?” 

She half heard Spider Paw’s mew. She looked up 
as he repeated her name. 

“Moth Flight’ He was plucking at the grass 
outside their den. “Why can t we go onto the moor?” 

Moth Flight blinked at him, still half lost in her 
thoughts. “What, dear?” 

“Why can’t we go out onto the moor?” Spider 
Paw repeated crossly. 

“There are buzzards out there that might carry you 
off,’ Moth Flight reminded him. “And foxes and 
Twoleg dogs. It’s not safe until you’re big enough to 
run or fight.” 

Honey Pelt dropped into an attack pounce, 
wriggled his hindquarters, and leaped onto his brother. 
“We can fight!” he squeaked as Spider Paw struggled 
beneath him. They rolled, wrestling, across the grass. 

“Be careful!” Moth Flight flinched as she saw 
Spider Paw’s unsheathed claws. “When you're play 
fighting, remember to pull in your claws!” 

Slate was padding across the clearing, her 


shoulders drooping. 

She looks so tired. Moth Flight frowned. J hope 
she doesnt fall asleep while I’m gone. 

She glanced around the camp, hoping to find 
another cat willing to watch her kits while she tended 
to Rocky. But the clearing was deserted. Wind Runner 
had assigned patrols for the day. Gorse Fur had taken 
Storm Pelt, Dew Nose, and Swift Minnow to flush out 
rabbits from their burrows on the moortop. Dust 
Muzzle and Fern Leaf had led a patrol toward the 
gorge to find lapwings, while Jagged Peak and Holly 
had gone to gather heather for new nests. Only 
StarClan knew where Willow Tail was. The pale tabby 
hardly seemed to be in camp at all these days. 

Spotted Fur and Reed Tail were sharing prey at the 
far end of the camp. Moth Flight blinked at them 
hopefully, but they were deep in conversation, lying in 
the long grass, relaxing after their dawn patrol. 

Wind Runner lay, stretched on the rocks, beside the 
entrance. Moth Flight narrowed her eyes. There was 
no way she was asking her mother for help. They 
hadn’t spoken since the Gathering the night before. 
Slate would have to do. 


Moth Flight watched the gray she-cat settle 
awkwardly beside the sandy hollow. “Call me if you 
need me,” Moth Flight told her, hoping she wouldn't. 
She ducked into her den and pulled a wad of comfrey 
from her herb store. She’d gathered it yesterday and it 
was nicely wilted. It would be easy to wrap around 
Rocky’s stiff joints. She’d gather more later and line 
Rocky’s nest. 

She was about to grab the bundle between her 
jaws when she hesitated. Glancing back at her stores, 
she grabbed a few extra leaves and rolled them up 
with the comfrey. Then she padded into the sunshine 
and crossed the tussocks to Rocky’s den. 

She was pleased that her Clanmates had woven a 
shelter for the old tom. Holly was an expert at 
threading gorse and brambles into roofs and walls. 
Moth Flight had been dimly aware of the building work 
while she’d nursed her kits. She’d heard Holly’s mew 
issuing instructions and ordering her Clanmates to find 
more stems and sprigs for the den. She’d even made 
sure any gaps had been filled with moss and leaves, so 
that, as Moth Flight padded inside, shadow swept her 
sun-warmed pelt. 


Rocky blinked at her through the gloom. “Moth 
Flight?” His mew was tight. He must be in a lot of 
pain. 

“Pm sorry I’ve been so long,” Moth Flight dropped 
the comfrey guiltily beside his nest. “I had to find 
someone to watch my kits.” 

Rocky grunted. “I wish I could watch them for 

you.” 
“You can, once these herbs start to make you feel 
better.” She unrolled the bundle and hooked out the 
extra leaves she’d tucked among them. “Eat these.” 
She laid the leaves on the side of his nest. 

Rocky’s eyes gleamed. “Catmint.” 

“I thought it’d help.” 

Rocky purred, lapping them up. 

As he closed his eyes contently, Moth Flight leaned 
into his nest and began wrapping his hind legs with the 
comfrey. “Once the sap seeps through your fur, the 
pain will start to ease,’ she promised. “We need to 
make sure that your nest is lined with comfrey in the 
future. Now that White Tail, Silver Stripe, and Black 
Ear are old enough to go onto the moor, I’m sure 
they’ ll be happy to gather fresh leaves for you.” Soon 


they'll be old enough to become apprentices, Moth 
Flight thought, wondering which of the older cats 
would be chosen to teach the adolescents the finer 
points of hunting and caring for the Clan. It seemed 
like just yesterday she was helping fish Silver Stripe 
out of the tunnel. Its amazing how fast the kits grow. 

“Mmmmm.” Rocky was still purring. 

Pleasure warmed Moth Flight’s pelt. Last night, as 
she’d fought to save Tiny Branch, she’d felt 
powerless. Now satisfaction moved deep in her belly 
as she eased her Clanmate’s pain. 

“Moth Flight!” A pained shriek sounded outside. 

She dropped the comfrey and darted from the den. 
Beside the tall rock, at the head of the sandy hollow, 
Slate crouched over Blue Whisker. 

The kit was lying motionless on the ground. 

Spider Paw and Honey Pelt pressed around Slate 
while Bubbling Stream hung back, her eyes wide with 
shock. 

“What happened?” Moth Flight raced to Blue 
Whisker’s side. The kit was unconscious. 

Slate blinked, her gaze cloudy. “I’m not sure. I just 
closed my eyes for a moment and—” 


Honey Pelt cut in. “She wanted to climb to the 
top.” He looked up at the tall rock. “She wanted to 
stand where Wind Runner stands when she talks to the 
Clan.” 

Moth Flight sniffed Blue Whisker’s pelt, feeling for 
heat that betrayed swelling. 

Blue Whisker blinked her eyes open. “Moth 
Flight?” 

Moth Flight’s throat tightened. “Where does it 
hurt?” she asked sharply. 

“Nowhere.” Blue Whisker’s breath was shallow. 

“Are you sure?” Moth Flight ran her paws over 
the kit’s white-and-yellow pelt, feeling for injuries. 

Blue Whisker struggled to her paws, swaying 
slightly. “I’m okay,” she whispered. 

Slate stared at the kit. “She was just winded.” 

“Are you sure you’re okay?” Moth Flight’s heart 
pounded in her ears. 

Blue Whisker met her gaze. “I’m sure.” 

Relief flooded Moth Flight. She jerked her muzzle 
toward Slate. “Why weren’t you watching?” 

Slate coughed. “I’m sorry. Pm not feeling too 
well.” 


“Why didn’t you say anything?” Frustration 
sparked in Moth Flight’s fur. Was she supposed to do 
everything? Take care of Rocky and watch her own 
kits? She swallowed back anger. Perhaps she should 
have asked Reed Tail to tend to Rocky. Or swallowed 
her pride and asked Wind Runner to watch the kits. 

Angrily, she turned on Blue Whisker. “What were 
you doing climbing the rock? Didn’t you realize it was 
dangerous?” 

Honey Pelt padded in front of his sister. “She saw 
me do it yesterday,” he told her. 

Moth Flight blinked. “You climbed it yesterday?” 

“I did too,” Spider Paw lifted his chin. 

“And me,” Bubbling Stream told her. 

Moth Flight stared at them. Why hadn’t she 
noticed? 

“It was while you were at the Gathering,” Honey 
Pelt told her, as though reading her thoughts. 

“Did Rocky let you?” 

“He said we were too timid. And that Micah would 
have had us hunting on the moor by now.” Spider Paw 
glanced guiltily toward Rocky’s den. “He promised to 
catch us if we fell.” 


Bubbling Stream padded closer. “He wouldn’t let 
Blue Whisker climb. He said she wasn’t ready.” 

“So she decided to try it today.” Moth Flight glared 
at Blue Whisker. 

Blue Whisker’s eyes glistened. “I’m sorry,” she 
whimpered. 

Honey Pelt puffed out his chest. “I didn’t see her 
climbing, or I’d have stopped her.” 

But you didn t! Moth Flight shifted her paws. Why 
should you? He was only a kit. He wasn’t responsible 
for Blue Whisker’s safety. J am! 

“Is she okay?” Her mother’s voice took her by 
surprise. Moth Flight glanced over her shoulder and 
saw Wind Runner stalking across the hollow. Reed Tail 
and Spotted Fur hurried after her. 

“She’s fine,” Moth Flight told them. “Just winded.” 
As she spoke, she was suddenly aware of heat pulsing 
from Slate’s pelt. She sniffed at the she-cat, and 
smelled the sour scent of fever. “You should go and 
rest in your den,” she told her softly, guilt pricking 
beneath her pelt. 

Slate didn’t argue, but padded slowly away. 

Moth Flight jerked her muzzle toward Blue 


Whisker. “Go and play with your littermates.” She 
watched her kits head away, tails drooping. 

Spotted Fur trotted after them. “Why don’t we 
have a game of moss ball!” he called. 

Honey Pelt turned, his gaze brightening. “Can I be 
on your team?” 

“I want to be on Spotted Fur’s team!” Bubbling 
Stream raced toward the golden tom and clambered 
onto his shoulders. 

Spider Paw glanced at Blue Whisker. “You can be 
on my team,” he purred. “We’ll beat them easily.” 

Moth Flight dragged her gaze away, gratitude 
soothing the tension in her belly. Thank you, Spotted 
Fur. 

Reed Tail’s mew pierced her thoughts. He was 
watching Slate disappear into her den. “What's wrong 
with her?” 

“I think she’s caught a chill’ Moth Flight guessed, 
still distracted by her kits. 

“PI check on her,” Reed Tail offered. 

Moth Flight flicked her tail toward Rocky’s den. 
“Will you finish putting comfrey on Rocky’s joints first? 
I’ve given him catmint to lift his spirits, but he’s still in 


a lot of pain.” 

“Of course.” Reed Tail padded away. 

Moth Flight looked at Wind Runner. 

Her mother had sat down and was staring at her. 
“It’s not easy, is it?” 

“What?” Moth Flight stiffened. A snarl edged 
Wind Runner’s mew. 

Her mother eyed her coldly. “Making sure every 
cat is safe and well.” 

Moth Flight prickled. “What are you trying to 
say?” 

“You think I’m wrong for rejecting SkyClan. But 
I’m doing it because I think it’s best for all of us.” 

“Tt wasn’t best for Tiny Branch.” Moth Flight lifted 
her chin. “He died.” 

She saw Wind Runner flinch, but the WindClan 
leader didn’t soften her gaze. “I presume you tried to 
save him.” 

“Of course!” 

“But you couldn’t. 

“I might have, if Clear Sky had allowed Acorn Fur 
to ask for help earlier.” Moth Flight flattened her ears. 
“Or if you hadn’t tried to stop us from going to help.” 


” 


“Really?” Wind Runner narrowed her eyes. 

“T don’t know!” Moth Flight snapped. “I never will. 
And neither will Clear Sky.” 

“That’s how it feels to be a leader,’ Wind Runner 
growled. “You make the best decision you can. But 
you can’t be sure how it will turn out. Pve seen what 
Clear Sky is capable of. I fought in the Great Battle. 
Not because I wanted to fight, but because not fighting 
would have destroyed the Clans.” 

“How?” Moth Flight didn’t understand. How could 
peace hurt any cat? 

“Clear Sky was hungry for power. We would have 
lived like prey if we hadn’t stood up to him.” Wind 
Runner’s tail twitched. “No cat should live like prey.” 

“Clear Sky’s changed.” 

“How do you know?” 

“I watched him grieve for his kit.” 

A low growl rumbled in Wind Runner’s throat. 
“T’ve grieved for kits. Do you think it softened me?” 

Moth Flight glared at her mother. “I wish it had!” 

Wind Runner thrust her muzzle forward, rage 
blazing in her yellow eyes. “Every decision I make is 
for the good of the Clan. You may think I’m wrong, but 


never dare to question me again!” 

Moth Flight ducked just in time to avoid her 
mother’s lashing tail as the WindClan leader turned and 
stalked away. Moth Flight watched her go, her belly 
hollow. How could Wind Runner stand by her decision 
to shun SkyClan? A kit had died! She curled her claws 
into the sandy earth. /'d do the same again and 
again. A leader might let a cat die, but I’m not a 
leader; I'm a medicine cat. 

She glanced across the clearmg and guessed that 
Reed Tail must still be dressing Rocky’s aching joints. 
She’d see to Slate herself. She padded toward the she- 
cat’s den and ducked inside. 

Slate was alone, lying in her nest, eyes closed. 
Moth Flight leaned close, shocked by how much heat 
pulsed from the she-cat’s pelt. 

Slate’s eyes flickered open, then she coughed. 
Jerking, she struggled to her paws, the cough taking 
hold of her and shaking her body. Moth Flight reached 
out a paw to steady the she-cat as she rocked. How 
had Slate grown so ill so quickly? Moth Flight widened 
her eyes, adjusting to the gloomy den, and saw stains 
darkening the moss beneath Slate’s chin. 


Blood! 

Moth Flight backed away, heart lurching. 

Fur brushed the gorse entrance and she turned to 
see Reed Tail slide in. 

“That cough sounds bad.” The tom blinked at her, 
stiffening as he read her gaze. “What is it?” 

“Redcough,” Moth Flight breathed. 

Reed Tail glanced at Slate, stiffening. “Do you 
have any bark left from when Rock—” 

Moth Flight didn’t let him finish. Her thoughts were 
whirling. “The sap dried up and flaked off a moon ago. 
She needs fresh.” 

“But how do we get it?” 

“Pl go.” 

“But it’s in SkyClan territory.” 

“So?” Moth Flight looked at him. “Last night I tried 
to save Tiny Branch’s life.” 

“But he died.” 

“I know he died!” Moth Flight snapped. “But 
Clear Sky saw us trying to save his kit. That must 
count for something. Even to a Clan leader!” 
Bitterness rose in her throat. She pushed past Reed 
Tail. “Look after Slate. I'll be back as soon as I can.” 


She raced from the den and charged across the 
tussocks. 

“Moth Flight!” Spotted Fur called from outside her 
den. 

She skidded to a halt, impatience burning in her 
paws. “What?” 

Honey Pelt and Bubbling Stream were wrestling 
on the grass while Blue Whisker and Spider Paw 
poked through the freshly stocked prey pile. Gorse Fur, 
Storm Pelt, Dew Nose, Fern Leaf, and Swift Minnow 
were back in camp. They lounged at the edge of the 
clearing, sharing a rabbit. 

Spotted Fur headed toward her. “Where are you 
going?” 

Moth Flight scanned the camp for Wind Runner 
before answering. There was no sign of the WindClan 
leader. 

“You look worried.” Spotted Fur stopped in front of 
her. 

“Slate’s got redcough,” Moth Flight told him. “Pm 
going to get some of that bark I got for Rocky when 
—” She stopped, her breath catching in her throat. She 
swayed on her paws. When Micah died. She’d been 


so worried about Slate, she hadn’t thought about it until 
now. Grief wrenched her heart. 

“Pm coming with you.” Spotted Fur brushed 
against her flank, steadying her. 

Moth Flight looked at him, feeling suddenly sick. / 
cant go back there. “Wind Runner will be angry if 
we cross the border,” she murmured numbly. 

“So will Clear Sky if he catches us.” Spotted Fur’s 
gaze didn’t waver. “We just have to make sure we 
don’t get caught.” 

Moth Flight stared into his amber eyes. Her 
thoughts slowed. She steadied her breath. She must 
get the bark. Slate needed it. 

She lifted her chin. “Are you ready?” 

“Yes.” Spotted Fur turned and called to Swift 
Minnow. “We need to gather herbs! Can you look after 
the kits?” 

Swift Minnow stretched languidly. “Of course!” 

Gorse Fur clambered to his paws, kicking the 
remains of the rabbit toward Storm Pelt. “PI watch 
them,” he offered. “I can show them some hunting 
moves.” 

Bubbling Stream looked up from the prey pile 


excitedly. “Will you take us up to the burrows?” 

“Not today,” Gorse Fur purred. 

Moth Flight’s heart was fluttering like caught prey. 
Micah! How could she go back there? Panic spiraled 
in her mind. “Come on.” She needed to run before fear 
crippled her. She raced for the camp entrance and 
burst onto the moorside. 

Spotted Fur’s paws pounded behind her as she 
raced down the slope and shouldered her way into the 
heather. 

“Moth Flight!” Spotted Fur called. “Use the trails!” 
She headed blindly for his voice, crashing through the 
purple branches until she glimpsed him. Ducking 
behind, she followed as he swerved among the stems. 

As she exploded onto the grass, she pushed hard 
against the earth, her gaze fixed on the forest where 
the SkyClan border edged the moor. She was panting 
by the time they reached it, her pelt spiked by the 
wind. 

“Slowly!” Spotted Fur pulled up. 

Moth Flight spun, her paws skidding on the smooth 


grass. 
“Let’s be careful,” Spotted Fur warned. 


“Nothing’s going to stop me from getting the 
bark!” Moth Flight glared at him. Micah would 
understand how she felt! He’d been with her last time 
she’d made this trip. Her heart swelled with fresh 
grief. 

Spotted Fur glanced along the border, his nose 
twitching as he scented for patrols. 

He stiffened, his gaze flashing toward striped fur 
showing amid the ferns. “Wait,” he hissed. Crouching, 
he pulled himself toward the tabby pelt. 

Moth Flight watched him, frustrated by the delay. 

Suddenly his shoulders loosened and he 
straightened. “It’s only Willow Tail.” 

As he spoke, the WindClan she-cat padded from 
the fronds. 

“What are you doing here?” Spotted Fur asked 
her. 

Willow Tail sniffed. “I’m just making sure those 
prey-stealers haven’t crossed the border again.” She 
narrowed her eyes. “What are you doing here?” 

“We’ve come to get bark for Slate.” Moth Flight 
marched past her. “She’s got redcough.” 

“TIl come with you.” Willow Tail sounded excited. 


“Wait.” Spotted Fur ducked in front of Moth Flight, 
blocking her path. “We can’t all go rushing onto 
SkyClan’s land. They’ll think it’s an invasion.” He 
tipped his head, his gaze resting on Willow Tail. “We 
need you to wait here. If we don’t come back, fetch 
help.” 

Willow Tail’s eyes widened eagerly. “Good idea.” 

Moth Flight headed through the ferns. Well done, 
Spotted Fur. The last thing she needed was another 
cat under her paws. A pointless mission would keep 
Willow Tail busy. 

She headed through the forest, forcing herself to 
remember the route Micah had taken last time they 
were here. She recognized a fallen log and scrambled 
over it, her heart twisting inside her chest as she 
pictured Micah leaping it with ease. 

“Are we going the right way?” Spotted Fur hissed 
under his breath. The golden tom’s ears were pricked, 
his mouth open for warning scents. 

“Yes.” Moth Flight pushed on, each paw step 
feeling heavier than the last until the trees thinned and 
she saw the hollow where Micah had died. 

Her paws turned to stone. She stopped and stared 


down, grief swamping her. A few shards of splintered 
branch still flecked the ground. 

Spotted Fur’s pelt brushed hers. “Slate needs that 
bark,” he murmured. 

She dragged her gaze toward the highest branches 
of the tree at the center of the glade. “Up there,” she 
murmured hoarsely. “We need to get it from the top, 
where the bark is the softest.” 

“You wait here.” Spotted Fur bounded down the 
slope and leaped for the trunk. Heaving himself into 
the branches, he disappeared among the leaves. 

Moth Flight watched the tree tremble as he 
climbed. Her heart seemed to beat in her throat. 
Sorrow—as suffocating as the day Micah had died— 
pressed in her chest. She stood motionless, as though 
her paws had sprouted roots and fixed her to the earth. 

She shook out her pelt. Mourning Micah again 
won t change anything. He’d be proud I came here. 
This felt like his tree now. 

The leaves rustled and Spotted Fur’s pelt showed 
beneath them. A moment later, he was scooting down 
the trunk, strips of bark clasped between his jaws. He 
hurried toward her. The tang of sap sent thorns of pain 


jabbing through her heart. It was the scent she’d 
smelled as Micah died. 

Spotted Fur nudged her from the glade. His eyes 
were half closed, streaming from the pungent scent. 
Moth Flight led him through the woods, staying close to 
guide him past stray brambles and rutted earth. 

As they neared the border, she scented heather 
and quickened her pace. 

Paw steps scuffed the earth behind them. Moth 
Flight froze. 

“Where are you gong?” 

A hostile mew made her turn. Nettle was staring at 
her across a patch of blueberries. Birch and Alder 
flanked him, their eyes narrowed aggressively. 

Spotted Fur spat out the bark, his hackles lifting. 
He pushed in front of Moth Flight and faced the 
SkyClan cats. “She’s come to get medicine for a sick 
Clanmate.” 

“I thought Wind Runner didn’t recognize SkyClan 
anymore.” There was a sneer in Nettle’s mew. “Yet 
you still come to steal from us.” 

Moth Flight stepped forward. “We’re not stealing! 
We’re taking bark, not prey! Just let us go. Slate might 


die without it!” 

Alder curled her lip. “No one is allowed to help 
SkyClan, but SkyClan must help you?” 

“We should all help each other!” Rage pulsed 
beneath Moth Flight’s pelt. 

Birch tipped his head, his eyes glittering with 
curiosity. “Don’t you agree with Wind Runner?” 

Of course I dont agree! Moth Flight held her 
tongue. She wasn’t going to betray her mother, or her 
Clan. 

“Just pretend you haven’t seen us,” Spotted Fur 
reasoned. “It makes no difference to you whether we 
take the bark or not.” 

Birch narrowed his eyes. “I’m sick of WindClan 
telling us what to do.” 

Alder padded closer. “You'll come back to camp 
with us. And don’t try to run. Clear Sky will only send 
a bigger patrol to fetch you. He’ll want to know what 
you’re doing on our land.” 

“But my Clanmate’s sick!” Moth Flight fought the 
urge to rake the gray-and-white she-cat’s nose. 

“Let’s go with them,” Spotted Fur breathed softly 
in her ear. “Don’t forget that you tried to save Clear 


Sky’s kit. He might be more understanding than these 
fox-hearts.” 

Nettle glared at him. “Stop whispering and get 
moving.” 

The SkyClan cats fell in beside them and began to 
herd them deeper into the forest. 

Moth Flight glanced at the bark left behind on the 
forest floor. Its precious sap would be leaking into the 
earth. But, if she explained everything to Clear Sky as 
quickly as she could, there might be enough left to take 
back to Slate. 

She quickened her pace. 

“You seem to be in a hurry,” Alder snarled. 

“T just want to sort this out and get home,” she 
snapped back. She spotted the bramble barrier on the 
slope ahead. Birch had to break into a run to duck 
through the gap before her. 

As she emerged into the hollow, faces turned to 
stare. 

Sparrow Fur got to her paws. Blossom blinked 
from the shadow of a yew. 

Moth Flight’s gaze flashed toward the earth where 
Tiny Branch had died last night. Leaves had been 


scattered over it, but dark bloodstains still showed 
between. 

She felt suddenly weary, her paws as heavy as 
stone. All she wanted was to help the cats around her, 
but every paw step seemed to lead her into another 
nettle patch. 

“Clear Sky’s in his den.” Alder jerked her nose 
across the clearing. “Spotted Fur can wait here while 
you speak to him.” She steered Moth Flight up the 
short, steep slope and through the trees beyond. “Clear 
Sky?” She paused and called into the shadows. 

The SkyClan leader padded slowly out. 

Moth Flight blinked. Clear Sky’s eyes were hollow. 
His pelt was matted and slicked against his broad 
frame. He looked as though he’d been dragged from a 
river. 

Star Flower followed him. Grief glistened, still 
fresh, in her eyes. She stared blankly at Moth Flight. 
“What’s she doing here?” 

“We found her on our land,” Alder told the she-cat. 
“She was with a Clanmate.” 

Clear Sky padded closer, confusion clouding his 
stricken gaze. “No cat is allowed on SkyClan land,” he 


mumbled. 

“T had to come,” Moth Flight told him. “I need bark 
from the tree where Micah died. It’s to cure a sick 
Clanmate. She’s got redcough. She might die.” She 
waited for Clear Sky to understand. But he only stared 
at her. 

“No cat is allowed on SkyClan land,” he repeated. 

“I need the bark!” Moth Flight glared at him. “I 
know you’re grieving and I hate to disturb you. We 
don’t want to disturb you. We just want to take the 
bark and go.” 

“No.” Clear Sky slowly lifted his head, his gaze 
clearing. “Last night, you tried to save Tiny Branch, 
and I will always be grateful for that. But if Wind 
Runner hadn’t tried to stop you from coming, my kit 
might still be alive. Wind Runner has to realize that 
there are consequences for her actions. She has to 
admit her mistake.” 

Cold fear rippled along Moth Flight’s spine. There 
was darkness in the SkyClan leader’s words. He is 
capable of more cruelty than you can imagine. 
“What are you going to do?” 

“To you?” His ear twitched. “Nothing.” 


Moth Flight heard paw steps. Pelts moved at the 
edge of her vision. She smelled the scents of Alder and 
Red Claw as they closed in behind her. 

Clear Sky went on. “You will simply be our guest 
until Wind Runner comes to fetch you.” 

“She won’t come here!” Panic flashed through 
Moth Flight. She can’t come here. It’s not safe! 

“She must.” Clear Sky sat down heavily. “She has 
accused us of stealing prey. She has stolen prey 
herself. And why?” 

Moth Flight stared at him. Did he expect an 
answer? 

He went on. “She has listened to the word of a 
rogue and believed it over the word of a mountain 
cat.” He glanced at Star Flower. “It’s hardly 
surprising. Wind Runner was a rogue herself once.” 

“What are you talking about?” Moth Flight felt lost. 
“What rogue?” 

“Willow Tail.” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws uneasily. “What do 
you mean?” 

‘Tve been talking to Red Claw,” Clear Sky told 
her. “He and Willow Tail go back a long way. Willow 


Tail has been lying for moons. She’s been spreading 
half-truths and stirring up trouble just to settle scores 
that have nothing to do with the Clans.” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws nervously. She had no 
idea if what Clear Sky was saying was true. But she 
could see a way out. “Why don’t I go and tell Wind 
Runner this?” I can take the bark back with me. 

“No!” Clear Sky snarled. “You will stay here until 
Wind Runner comes to me, admits her mistake, and 
banishes Willow Tail from her Clan.” 

“She’ll never do that!” The words burst out before 
Moth Flight could stop them. Wind Runner was far too 
proud to come groveling to Clear Sky. And too proud 
to banish Willow Tail. By banishing Willow Tail, Wind 
Runner would be admitting she had made a mistake by 
letting the she-cat join her Clan. It simply wasn't 
something Wind Runner would do. 

“She will” Clear Sky meowed. “We just have to 
wait.” 

“How long are you going to keep me prisoner?” 
Moth Flight snarled. Her thoughts skipped from Slate 
to her kits. How dare he keep her from them? They 
needed her! 


“For as long as it takes.” 

Moth Flight glared at the SkyClan leader. “You 
can’t do this!” 

His tail twitched menacingly. “This is my territory,” 
he growled. “I can do anything I like.” 





CHAPTER 30 
+ 


“What do we do now? ” Spotted Fur paced the den. 

“We can't stay here!” Moth Flight stared angrily 
from the entrance. The tiny cave, hollowed from the 
bramble close to Clear Sky’s den, still carried the stale 
scent of Star Flower. Clear Sky’s mate must have slept 
here at one time. Her ragged nest looked as though it 
hadn’t been used in moons. It would probably crumble 
into dust if any cat climbed into it. 

Moth Flight thought of her own nest at home. She 
could almost smell its heathery scent and the warmth 
of her kits rismg from its thick moss lining. Anxiety 
twisted in her heart. And what about Slate? She 
needed the bark. “We have to escape.” 

“How?” Spotted Fur jerked his muzzle toward 
Alder, who sat, as still as a rock, a few tail-lengths 
from the entrance. 

“We could burrow through the back,” Moth Flight 
suggested. 

Spotted Fur grunted, glancing at the prickly stems, 
so thickly woven that no light filtered through. “If we 


had paws made of wood.” 

Moth Flight whisked her tail crossly. “Why do Clan 
leaders make life so difficult?” 

Spotted Fur blinked at her. “Who knows?” 

Moth Flight tipped her head. “Do you think Willow 
Tail has been stirring up trouble?” she asked. “Slate 
and Jagged Peak have seen the bones, too.” 

Spotted Fur shrugged. “But she is usually the first 
one to make accusations.” He frowned. “And she’s 
the only one who’s actually seen SkyClan stealing 
prey. If she is really as bad as Clear Sky says... . she 
could have planted the bones.” 

Planted the bones? It seemed crazy to Moth 
Flight. She crouched and drew her paws tightly under 
her. “Doesn’t she realize that she might cause a 
battle?” 

“Perhaps that’s what she wants.” Spotted Fur 
stared at her grimly. 

“No!” Moth Flight refused to believe it. “Why 
would any cat want to cause suffering?” 

Spotted Fur didn’t answer. His gaze flicked back 
toward Alder. The gray-and-white she-cat still hadn’t 
moved. “Even SkyClan cats have to eat, surely?” 


“If she goes, another cat will take her place.” 
Moth Flight wondered how long they’d been here. The 
sun glimmered through the distant branches, low 
enough to show through the den entrance. Her kits 
would start wondering where she was. Yearning 
tugged in her belly, as sharp as hunger. “Do you think 
Willow Tail has realized that we’re not coming back?” 

“She’s probably on her way to camp now.” 

Moth Flight stiffened. “I hope not.” How would 
Wind Runner react to news that her daughter had gone 
missing in SkyClan territory? “What if she sends a 
patrol looking for us?” 

“Isn’t that what Clear Sky wants?” 

“He wants her to apologize.” Moth Flight stared at 
him, dread worming beneath her pelt. “Doesn’t he 
know Wind Runner at all?” She remembered her 
mother’s warning. You may think I’m wrong, but 
never dare to question me again! She was far too 
stubborn ever to apologize to Clear Sky. 

Spotted Fur’s ears twitched. “Do you think she”Il 
fight him?” 

“Of course she’ ll fight him!” 

“But she says she wants peace between the 


Clans.” 

“Not enough to admit she was wrong.” 

“We need to get to her before Willow Tail does. 
We can explain why Clear Sky’s so mad.” Spotted Fur 
began pacing again. “Perhaps I can distract Alder and 
you can make a run for it. Or you could distract Alder 
and I could make a run—” 

Paw steps cut him off. He jerked his muzzle 
toward the entrance. 

Moth Flight followed his gaze, her heart quickening 
as she saw Acorn Fur approach Alder. The SkyClan 
medicine cat held dripping moss between her jaws. 
She dipped her head to Alder, who nodded toward the 
den. 

“Thank StarClan you’re here!” Moth Flight hurried 
to meet Acorn Fur as she padded inside. 

The chestnut brown she-cat dropped the wet moss 
on the ground and blinked anxiously at Moth Flight. 
“Are you okay?” 

“We're fine,” Moth Flight assured her. “But we’ve 
got to get back to camp before Willow Tail!” 

Spotted Fur crouched to lick thirstily at the moss. 
“If she tells Wind Runner we’re missing,” he told her 


between laps, “in SkyClan territory, we’re worried it’ll 
start a war.” 

“We have to get out of here.” Moth Flight stared at 
her urgently. 

Acorn Fur backed away. “I can’t help you 
escape.” She glanced at Alder, lowering her voice. 
“They’re my Clanmates. I can’t betray them.” 

Spotted Fur narrowed his eyes. “We only need to 
get past Alder.” 

Moth Flight nodded. “I can pretend I’m ill and you 
can fetch Alder, and Spotted Fur can slip out while 
she’s—” 

“No!” Acorn Fur looked stricken. “I want to help. 
But when Alder sees you’re okay and Spotted Fur’s 
gone—” 

“She'll think I tricked you!” Moth Flight 
interrupted. 

Acorn Fur stiffened. “She knows that you trained 
me. She’ll suspect me. Every cat will suspect me! 
How can I heal my Clanmates if they stop trusting 
me?” 

Spotted Fur glanced at Moth Flight. “She’s right. 
We can’t ask her to betray her Clan.” 


Moth Flight’s thoughts flashed to her kits. They’d 
be terrified if Willow Tail raced into camp telling 
everyone that she and Spotted Fur had gone missing in 
SkyClan territory. Her heart began to pound. “You 
could fetch the others!” She blinked at Acorn Fur. 

“The others?” Acorn Fur echoed. 

“The other medicine cats,’ Moth Flight explained. 
“Bring them here. They can reason with Clear Sky.” 

Acorn Fur tipped her head. “It might work.” 

Spotted Fur shrugged. ‘It’s worth trying.” 

“Go now!” Moth Flight nosed Acorn Fur toward 
the entrance. She lowered her voice as Alder turned, 
ears pricking. “Run as fast as you can!” 

“Take care,” Spotted Fur murmured under his 
breath as Acorn Fur trotted past Alder and 
disappeared down the slope. 

Moth Flight blinked at him. “Do you think she’ll 
bring them in time?” 

Spotted Fur’s tail twitched. “Even if she could, Pm 
not sure Clear Sky will listen to medicine cats.” 

“He has to!” Moth Flight began pacing again. Too 
much was at stake. Slate needed the bark. Her kits 
needed to know she was safe. And Wind Runner— 


She flinched from the thought. What if the 
WindClan leader chose war? No cat should live like 
prey. 

“Moth Flight.” Spotted Fur’s mew was soft in her 
ear. She met his gaze, surprised to see warmth there. 

“What?” 

“T just wanted to tell you how sorry I am.” 

“Sorry?” She didn’t understand. 

“About Micah,” he murmured. “About him dying. I 
know I was jealous when you brought him back from 
Highstones with you. I always thought I’d be your 
mate.” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws uneasily. 

“This probably isn’t the best time,” Spotted Fur told 
her quickly. “But it’s so hard to get you alone these 
days. You’re either with your kits or busy with your 
medicine-cat duties. I just wanted you to know that I 
understand how much you loved Micah. And I’m glad 
you got to spend time with him before he died. And the 
kits . . .” His mew trailed away. 

Moth Flight saw sadness in his gaze. “Thank you,” 
she mumbled self-consciously. “I’m sorry I hurt you, 
but I had to follow my heart.” 


“And I must follow mine.” His gaze lingered on 
her, glowing. 

He still loves me. Moth Flight looked away. 
“You’re a good friend, Spotted Fur. And the kits love 
you but—” 

A shriek ripped through the trees. 

Moth Flight raced to the den entrance. 

Alder was leaping into the hollow, her pelt bushed, 
as the forest rang with the yowls of battle. 

“WindClan!” Moth Flight’s heart lurched. “They’re 
attacking the camp!” 





CHAPTER 31 
+ 


Spotted Fur beat her out of the den. Moth Flight 
hared after him, skidding to a halt at the top of the 
hollow. Pelts swarmed from the bramble barrier. Wind 
Runner was leading the charge, Willow Tail and Gorse 
Fur at her heels. Behind them raced Dust Muzzle, Fern 
Leaf, Swift Minnow, Holly, and Storm Pelt. Jagged 
Peak trailed at the rear, his lame hind leg slowing him 
down. 

Star Flower yowled, her eyes blazing, and dragged 
her kits, Dew Petal and Flower Foot, beneath a yew at 
the edge of the clearing. She crouched in front of 
them, eyes slitted, a low growl rumbling in her throat. 

SkyClan cats streamed from their dens and met 
the invaders with outstretched claws. Wind Runner 
crashed into Nettle, and they fell, squirming like 
snakes, onto the ground. Swift Minnow’s gray-and- 
white pelt flashed beneath Sparrow Fur’s as the 
tortoiseshell knocked the she-cat’s paws from under 
her and leaped onto her back. Blossom jumped from 
the roots of an oak. She landed on Dust Muzzle’s back 


and sank her jaws into his neck. 

Moth Flight flinched. “Dust Muzzle!” The yowl of 
battle swept away her panicked cry. 

Fern Leaf shouldered her way through the battling 
cats and attacked Birch with a flurry of blows while, 
behind her, Quick Water leaped at Holly as she 
crossed the hollow. 

Moth Flight heard a yowl of rage behind her and 
turned to see Clear Sky racing for the clearing. Fury 
glittered in his eyes. Flattening his ears, he leaped from 
the short, steep slope and hurled himself at Spotted 
Fur. 

Moth Flight felt panic rising. “Stop!” Her wail was 
lost in the shriek of battle. “You mustn’t fight!” 

Pale tabby fur caught her eye. Willow Tail had 
halted beside the barrier and was watching Red Claw 
through slitted eyes. The glossy red tom was fending 
off Gorse Fur with strong forepaw swipes. 

“Look out!” Moth Flight saw Alder streak toward 
Willow Tail. The pale tabby whipped around and lifted 
her paws as the SkyClan she-cat slammed into her. 
Staggering for a moment, Willow Tail kept her balance 
and hooked her claws into Alder’s pelt. With a hiss of 


fury, she hauled Alder onto her belly. 

The tang of blood touched Moth Flight’s nose. Her 
heart seemed to burst in her chest. “Wind Runner! 
Stop! Clear Sky only wanted to talk!” 

Wind Runner held Nettle down, raking his belly 
with her hind claws. She didn’t even look up. Moth 
Flight felt as though she were in a dream, unable to 
make herself heard. 

Thorn slid from the ferns crowding the other side 
of the hollow. His blue gaze narrowed on Fern Leaf. 
The WindClan she-cat was pinned to the ground by 
Birch. Her hind legs churned desperately as she fought 
to loosen Birch’s grip. Thorn dropped into an attack 
crouch and showed his teeth. 

That's not fair! Moth Flight leaped from the top of 
the slope, landing heavily on the soft earth of the 
hollow. She had to help Fern Leaf! She dodged out of 
the way as Swift Minnow and Sparrow Fur rolled 
toward her. “Fern Leaf!” Rearing, she strained to see 
over the jumble of pelts. 

She was too late. Thorn was on Fern Leaf’s back, 
his hindlegs scraping lumps from the young she-cat’s 
pelt while Birch aimed vicious blows at her muzzle. 


She froze. What do I do? A medicine cat was 
meant to heal, not harm, but she couldn’t watch while 
her Clanmate was attacked. 

Suddenly, gray fur flashed beside Thorn. Dust 
Muzzle! Moth Flight watched her brother plunge 
toward Thorn and rip him away from Fern Leaf. Fern 
Leaf’s eyes flashed with triumph as, freed, she reared 
and slashed Birch’s nose. 

Blood sprayed the ground. The tang grew stronger, 
bathing Moth Flight’s tongue. 

I’m going to need supplies! She stared around 
the camp. Wheres Acorn Fur's den? Why had she 
sent the SkyClan medicine cat away? She’d never 
manage all these injuries alone. 

Cobwebs. The thought flashed in her mind. If she 
could gather enough to staunch any bleeding, it would 
do until she had time to tend to the wounds properly. 
She slid between Blossom and Red Claw and 
scrambled out of the hollow. Hurrying among the trees, 
she scanned their trunks for cobwebs. Her heart 
leaped as she saw the roots of an elm swathed in a 
gray mist of web. She scraped it away, wrapping as 
much around her paws as she could and turned back 


toward the hollow. 

“What are you doing?” Blossom faced her, eyes 
glittering with rage. 

Moth Flight bristled. “I’m trying to help!” 

“Help who?” Blossom padded closer. 

“Any cat who’s injured.” Moth Flight lifted her 
paw to show the cobweb. “This will stop bleeding.” 

“You’re wasting your time,” Blossom snarled. 
“We’re going to make WindClan bleed so badly, all the 
cobwebs in the forest won’t save you.” 

Moth Flight blinked at her. “Can’t you just stop 
fighting and talk?” 

“You invaded our camp!” Blossom padded closer, 
a menacing gleam in her eyes. 

“I'm not fighting you.” Moth Flight lifted her chin. 
“Pm a medicine cat. It’s my duty to heal. Get out of 
my way so I can get on with it.” 

Blossom showed her teeth. “You have to fight.” 

Moth Flight held her ground. “No, I don’t.” 

Blossom reared and slashed a paw across Moth 
Flight’s muzzle. 

Pain sliced through her. StarClan! What do I do? 
Rage pulsed beneath her pelt. Her claws itched to rip 


the fur from Blossom’s spine. She narrowed her eyes 
as Blossom lifted her paw again. 

Gray fur flashed behind the SkyClan she-cat. 
Jagged Peak! The lame tom flung himself at Blossom, 
snarling viciously. 

Blossom gasped as he sunk claws into her 
shoulders and hooked her hind paws from under her 
with a sharp kick. 

Moth Flight blinked gratefully at her Clanmate as 
he pinned Blossom to the earth. She started for the 
hollow. “Don’t hurt her,” she hissed as she passed him. 

Surprise flashed in his eyes. “This is a battle, not a 
Gathering!” he called after her as she leaped into the 
clearing. 

Fern Leaf was staggering at the far edge, blood 
welling from a gash on her flank. Birch was backed 
against the ferns, flailing at Dust Muzzle as the 
WindClan tom swiped at him with vicious blows. Moth 
Flight skirted the battle and skidded to a halt beside 
Fern Leaf. 

The black she-cat was panting, her eyes cloudy 
with pain. Moth Flight unwrapped a swath of cobweb 
from her paw and padded the open wound. Fern Leaf 


winced, but didn’t flinch. “This will stop the bleeding,” 
she told her. 

“Good.” Fern Leaf leaped to her paws. 

“You can’t fight again!” Moth Flight blocked her 
way. “You must rest or it’Il start bleeding again.” 

Fern Leaf met her gaze. “If one of my Clanmates 
dies while I’m resting, I will never forgive myself.” 

Moth Flight stared at her wordlessly. 

Fern Leaf snatched her gaze away and fell in 
beside Dust Muzzle. The two cats reared together, 
sending well-aimed blows at Birch's nose until the 
SkyClan tom backed deep into the ferns. 

Moth Flight scanned the battle for more injuries. 
Nettle staggered beside Red Claw, who was wrestling 
with Gorse Fur. Swift Minnow struggled beneath 
Sparrow Fur, her whiskers dripping with blood. 

“Let her go!” Moth Flight shrieked at Sparrow Fur 
as the tortoiseshell pressed Swift Minnow’s muzzle into 
the earth. “She’s hurt!” 

Claws hooked Moth Flight’s scruff and jerked her 
backward. Gasping, she struggled. A deep-throated 
snarl sounded in her ear. Red Claw. “If you don’t want 
to fight, get out of the battle.” 


“Get off!” She thrashed helplessly. “I need to 
help!” 

Red Claw let go and she turned on him. 

“You have to stop them from fighting!” she wailed. 
“This won’t solve anything!” 

“Really?” Sneering, Red Claw pushed past her and 
grabbed Holly. Dragging her from Quick Water’s back 
he hurled the black she-cat to the ground. Then he 
reared and slammed his paws into her chest. 

Rage surged through Moth Flight. This is rabbit- 
brained! 

Suddenly Wind Runner’s tabby pelt flashed at the 
edge of her vision. The WindClan leader was racing 
toward Clear Sky. 

“Stop!” Moth Flight chased after her, skidding to a 
halt as Wind Runner leaped at the SkyClan leader. 
Clear Sky turned as quick as a fox. Lashing out with a 
forepaw, he slashed Wind Runner’s neck. Blood 
sprayed the clearing. Wind Runner staggered, her eyes 
rounding with shock. 

Moth Flight raced toward her, her heart in her 
throat. 

Wind Runner batted her away, her gaze fixed on 


Clear Sky. Blood welled at her throat and dripped from 
her fur. “You went too far this time.” Her mew was 
husky with pain. “You took my kit hostage.” 

“And you let my kit die.” Clear Sky glared back at 
her. 

“Moth Flight came, didn’t she?” she snarled at the 
SkyClan leader. 

“Not soon enough!” Clear Sky flew at her, his blue 
eyes cold with fury. He threw another blow at her, 
cracking her cheek with such force that she staggered 
and fell. Leaping on top of her, he pinned her to the 
ground and raked her belly with powerful hind claws. 

Horror surged beneath Moth Flight’s pelt. She 
unsheathed her claws, rage burning in them. Her 
thoughts whirled. She was meant to heal—but she 
couldn’t watch Clear Sky hurt her mother. 

Wind Runner twisted, knocking Clear Sky’s hind 
paws clear. She leaped up and raked his muzzle with a 
powerful blow. 

Blood glistened on his nose as he raised his gaze to 
meet hers. “How dare you attack my camp? My kits 
are here!” He glanced toward the yew where 
frightened eyes peered out behind Star Flower. “Are 


you determined to kill them all?” 

Rage lit up Wind Runner’s eyes. “You started 
this!” Snaking beneath his belly, she pushed hard 
against his chest and heaved him onto his side. He hit 
the ground with a thump and she lunged for his throat. 

Her jaws snapped thin air as he rolled out of the 
way just in time. Leaping onto his paws, Clear Sky 
reared. Wind Runner lifted her forepaws to meet his, 
but he was quicker and threw a blow at her cheek. 
She lurched backward, unbalanced. Her hind paw slid 
over a root. It snagged her and she fell, her leg twisting 
beneath her. 

Moth Flight heard a crack and froze with horror. 
She’d eaten enough prey to recognize the snap of 
breaking bone. Her mother’s leg bone had broken. 

“Wind Runner!” She raced to her mother’s side. 
Wind Runner groaned, her eyes rolling with agony. 

At the sound of her groan, Dust Muzzle and Gorse 
Fur glanced over from the far side of the clearing. 
They were driving Nettle backward toward a birch 
trunk. As their attention slipped, the SkyClan tom 
lashed out. He lunged low and clamped his jaws 
around Gorse Fur’s paw. Dust Muzzle’s gaze darted 


away from Wind Runner and he sliced his claws 
across Nettle’s ears. 

Moth Flight jerked her muzzle fearfully toward 
Clear Sky. Was he going to attack again? 

He stood as still as stone, and watched the 
WindClan leader coldly. Then his blue gaze flitted 
across the writhing pelts and rested on Willow Tail. 

Wind Runner gasped, trying to move, and fell back. 
Moth Flight dragged her gaze from Clear Sky and 
looked into her mother’s eyes. Was that fear she 
glimpsed? Fresh blood was still welling at Wind 
Runner’s neck, and her hind leg stuck out at an ugly 
angle. Moth Flight’s chest tightened. She’d never seen 
her mother afraid before. “You’re going to be okay.” 
Forcing herself to think, she remembered the cobwebs 
on her paw. Quickly, she unwrapped a long strip and 
wadded it into the deep scratch at her mother’s throat. 
Then she ran a paw along Wind Runner’s leg. The 
WindClan leader flinched. 

“PI be gentle,’ Moth Flight promised. She could 
feel the break. Her breath quickened as she felt a 
jagged edge pressing inside the flesh. The bone was 
bent like a broken twig. Alarm shrilled through her. 


Could a bone heal like gashed flesh? She remembered 
Cloud Spots showing her comfrey, all those moons ago: 
I’ve heard it even helps broken limbs to heal, 
though I’ve not yet had to try it, thank StarClan. 
She closed her eyes and prayed he was right. 

A screech sounded behind her. 

Moth Flight spun, her breath stopping in her throat 
as she saw Clear Sky back away from Willow Tail, his 
eyes bright with shock. 

Willow Tail staggered, a wail rolling deep from her 
belly. As she swung her head around, Moth Flight 
gagged. 

Long gashes streaked the she-cat’s face. Blood 
streamed from her slashed eyes and dripped from her 
whiskers. Willow Tail moaned as her paws buckled 
beneath her. She collapsed onto the ground and stared 
blankly ahead. 

Moth Flight’s paws trembled. He's blinded her. 
She gaped at Clear Sky. Around him, the battling cats 
slowed, letting their paws drop as they turned to look at 
Willow Tail. 

Clear Sky moved away, his pelt rippling along his 
spine. He lifted his muzzle toward Red Claw at the 


edge of the clearing. “She’s yours now,” he growled 
softly. “Do what you like with her.” 

Willow Tail dragged herself feebly across the earth 
while the Clan cats backed away from her, their 
shocked gazes darting away. Red Claw unhooked his 
claws from Swift Minnow’s pelt and padded slowly 
toward the blinded cat. 

Her nose twitched. Whimpering, she tried to crawl 
away, her head jerking one way, then the other, as 
though she was chasing glimpses of light. 

Red Claw stopped beside her. “Why did you have 
to lie?” 

Willow Tail froze. “Don’t you know?” Her mew 
cracked desperately. 

“But why did you have to drag the Clans into it?” 
Red Claw’s eyes brimmed with grief. “It was never 
their argument.” 

“It was the only way I could punish you!” Willow 
Tail’s pelt rippled along her spine. “You killed my 
friend!” 

Red Claw bristled. “I didn’t kill her! The dogs 
killed her!” 

“And who led the dogs into our camp?” Willow 


Tail rasped. 

“Do you think I did it on purpose?” 

“Of course you did! You lured them there.” 

“They were chasing me.” Red Claw crouched 
close beside Willow Tail. He was shaking, his mew 
cracking as he spoke. “I was young and dumb. I ran 
into a pack of dogs and, when they started chasing me, 
I ran back to the one place I’d always felt safe. I 
thought if I got there, nothing could hurt me. It wasn’t 
until the dogs attacked that I realized what I’d done!” 

“You ran away!” Willow Tail accused. “You left us 
to die.” 

“There was nothing else I could do.” Red Claw’s 
shoulders drooped. “I am so ashamed. I’ve been trying 
to pretend it never happened.” 

“But it did happen!” 

Red Claw hung his head. “Pm sorry, Willow Tail.” 
His mew was thick. “If there was anything I could 
have done to change it, I would have.” 

Wind Runner lifted her head and gazed at him. 
“Was Willow Tail lying about the stolen prey?” 

“Yes.” Willow Tail rested her chin on the ground, 
her eyes red with blood. “I killed rabbits and dragged 


them across the border, then told you that I’d seen 
SkyClan hunting on the moor.” 

Clear Sky’s gaze flicked sharply toward the 
WindClan leader. “You believed a rogue over me!” 

Wind Runner growled from where she lay, pain 
tightening her words. “She’s my Clanmate.” 

Clear Sky didn’t move. “And you are always loyal 
to your Clan,” he sneered. 

Wind Runner didn’t flinch. “Aren’t you?” 

Clear Sky looked away. 

Moth Flight felt a surge of pride. Despite Wind 
Runner’s terrible pain, she’d silenced Clear Sky. Of 
course he’d be loyal to his Clanmate. If Willow Tail 
had been a SkyClan cat instead of a WindClan cat, 
he’d have stood by her. Moth Flight looked back at 
Willow Tail, her heart twisting with pity. The pale 
tabby’s flanks were quivering. Her ears were flat. A 
low moan crackled in her throat. 

Shes in shock! Moth Flight scanned the edges of 
the hollow, hoping to see thyme sprouting between the 
roots and brambles, but there was none. She 
scrambled toward Willow Tail and swept her tail along 
the tabby’s spine. “It’s okay,” she murmured. “We’ll 


get you back to camp and take care of you.” 

Willow Tail began to shiver, her matted fur spiking. 
She turned her gashed eyes toward Moth Flight. “Will I 
see again?” 

“I don’t know,’ Moth Flight whispered. 
Helplessness gripped her. She glanced around the 
watching cats. All she could see were wounds: 
scratched muzzles, torn pelts, ripped ears. Blood and 
fur specked the clearing. Fury rose in her chest. “You 
fought for nothing.” She glared at Clear Sky. “Why 
didn’t you let me go home? I could have spoken to 
Wind Runner. I could have told her what you’d said 
about Willow Tail and Red Claw. You could have 
settled this with words.” 

Clear Sky narrowed his eyes. “I didn’t ask Wind 
Runner to attack my camp.” 

Moth Flight hesitated. If only Wind Runner had 
sent a patrol to search for her, not to start a war. “You 
need to make peace.” She got to her paws and stood 
between her mother and Clear Sky. Looking from one 
to the other she growled. “This must end here.” 

Clear Sky’s gaze lingered on her for a moment. 
Then he dipped his head. “It was a dumb fight,” he 


conceded. 

Wind Runner took a shuddering breath. “It was 
never our battle,” she rasped. 

Paw steps thrummed the forest floor beyond the 
camp barrier. The brambles shivered as Acorn Fur 
hurtled in. She skidded to a halt, her eyes widening as 
she saw the battle-scarred cats. Pebble Heart raced 
behind her, Cloud Spots and Dappled Pelt on his tail. 

They stared. 

Dappled Pelt’s gaze shot toward Willow Tail. 
Pebble Heart hurried over to Wind Runner. He sniffed 
her pelt, peering at the gash in her neck before running 
a paw along her flank. 

“Her leg is broken,” Moth Flight told him anxiously. 
She looked toward Cloud Spots and Dappled Pelt. “We 
have to help the injured.” She blinked at Acorn Fur. 
“Im going to need herbs from your herb store.” 

“Let’s go.” Dappled Pelt was already climbing the 
steep bank. 

Acorn Fur ran after her. 

Cloud Spots whisked his tail. “T’Il gather fresh dock 
and marigold.” He ducked out of camp. 

Gorse Fur hurried across the clearing, his anxious 


gaze fixed on Wind Runner. “Is she okay?” 

“She’s broken her leg,” Moth Flight told him. 

“Broken it?” Gorse Fur’s gaze darkened. “Will it 
heal?” 

Pebble Heart answered for her. “Yes. If we wrap 
it with comfrey.” He leaped over Wind Runner and 
began tugging tough shoots that spouted from the base 
of the oak. “But first we need to make a support for 
it.” 

Gorse Fur hurried to help. 

“The bone’s twisted out of line.” Moth Flight felt 
sick as she remembered the jagged shape beneath her 
mother’s flesh. 

“We can straighten it.” Pebble Heart snapped a 
stiff shoot from the trunk. He showed it to Gorse Fur. 
“We need more like these,” he ordered. 

Gorse Fur nodded and hopped over the roots, his 
eyes scanning the bark. 

Moth Flight glanced at Willow Tail. “What can we 
do to help her?” she mewed desperately. 

Pebble Heart’s gaze darkened as he saw the she- 
cat. She looked like fresh prey, crumpled on the 
ground, blood soaking into the earth around her. “T 


think it’s too late,” he whispered. 

Red Claw dropped beside Willow Tail, his eyes 
wide with horror. 

Pebble Heart padded to the tabby’s side. He 
pressed his ear to her flank. Lifting his head slowly, he 
shook it, his gaze grim. “She’s dead.” 

Swift Minnow limped closer, her eyes glistening 
with grief. Jagged Peak glared at Clear Sky. 

Wind Runner caught the lame tom’s eye. “What’s 
done is done,” she croaked. “All we can do now is 
bury her.” 

Dappled Pelt appeared at the top of the slope, a 
wad of leaves in her jaws. Acorn Fur leaped past her, 
carrying cobwebs. The brambles rattled as Cloud 
Spots returned with marigold, dock, and thyme. The 
ThunderClan medicine cat glanced quickly around the 
hollow. As he narrowed his eyes, Moth Flight realized 
he was assessing the injuries. 

“Fern Leaf’s got a nasty gash in her flank,” she 
told him. 

Cloud Spots headed toward the black she-cat. 
Acorn Fur weaved between Blossom and Swift 
Minnow, checking for wounds. Dappled Pelt padded to 


where Nettle swayed beside the birch tree. Within 
moments, the three medicine cats were treating the 
injured—crouching to chew poultices, wrapping bloody 
paws in cobweb, lapping sap into scratches. 

Fur brushed Moth Flight’s flank. Gorse Fur was 
standing beside her, a bundle of oak shoots between his 
jaws. He dropped them and crouched beside Wind 
Runner. “Moth Flight will have you well in no time,” he 
promised softly. 

Pebble Heart jumped down the slope and laid a 
wad of lush leaves at Moth Flight’s paws. “I found 
comfrey.” He glanced at Wind Runner. “You’re going 
to need something to bite on.” He picked the thickest 
shoot from the pile Gorse Fur had dropped and slid it 
between her jaws. 

Unable to speak, she blinked at him questioningly. 

“We have to straighten the bone before we can 
wrap it.” He reached toward a clump of straggly grass 
and tugged out a few tough strands, then he nodded to 
Moth Flight. “Put your paws at the top of her leg and, 
when I give the signal, press down.” 

Moth Flight obeyed, resting her pads on Wind 
Runner’s fur. Heat pulsed from her injured leg. 


Pebble Heart gripped Wind Runner’s hind paw 
between his jaws. Flicking his gaze toward Moth 
Flight, he gave a tiny nod. Then he tugged. 

As Moth Flight pressed down, she felt the bone 
move and heard the stick crunch between her 
mother’s jaws. An agonized groan sounded deep in 
Wind Runner’s throat. 

Stiffening, Moth Flight jerked around and lapped 
her mother’s cheek fiercely. “It’s over now,” she 
soothed, suddenly feeling more like a mother than a kit. 

Gorse Fur was staring at her, his eyes round with 
horror. “You hurt her!” 

“We had to.” Pebble Heart let go of Wind 
Runner’s leg and ran his paw over the break. He 
blinked at Moth Flight. “What do you think?” 

Moth Flight was trembling. She reached out a paw 
and ran it nervously over her mother’s fur. The jagged 
lump had gone. “You’ve straightened it!” Relief rushed 
over her. She purred at Gorse Fur. “Hopefully, it can 
mend properly now.” 

“We have to wrap it so it can heal.” Pebble Flight 
hooked up two of the shoots and laid them either side 
of Wind Runner’s leg. He laid several more above and 


below. Then he wrapped comfrey thickly around them. 
Moth Flight realized what he was doing and grabbed 
one of the tough stems of grass. Threading it under her 
mother’s leg, she wound it around the comfrey and the 
shoots, like bundling soaked nettles. Before long, Wind 
Runner’s leg was tightly encased in comfrey, held 
straight by the shoots. 

Moth Flight blinked at Wind Runner. “How does it 
feel?” 

Wind Runner stared back at her, pain showing in 
her eyes. “Not bad,” she lied. 

‘Tve got poppy seeds in my den,” Moth Flight told 
her. “They'll help with the pain.” She suddenly 
remembered her kits. Who was looking after them? 
Were they okay? They'd be frightened—wondering 
where she was. Her heart lurched. She’d been so 
caught up with the battle and the wounded, she hadn’t 
even thought about them. 

Guilt washed over her. 

“Moth Flight?” Pebble Heart was staring at her, 
frowning. Had he seen her gaze darken? “What’s the 
matter?” 

“My kits!” she whispered urgently. “I don’t know 


who’s looking after them.” 

Pebble Heart blinked sympathetically. “We can 
manage here.” He nodded toward Dappled Pelt, Cloud 
Spots, and Acorn Fur, who were still tending to injured 
cats. “Go home to your kits. I won't leave Wind 
Runner’s side until she’s safely back in camp.” 

Moth Flight stared at him, her emotions whirling. 
Could she really abandon her mother and her 
Clanmates? 

“Go!” Pebble Heart urged. “While your thoughts 
are with your kits, you’ ll be of little use here.” 

She backed away, a chill sweeping her. Was that 
true? 

She shook out her fur. Who cares? Right now, 
Honey Pelt, Spider Paw, Bubbling Stream, and Blue 
Whisker might be wailing for her. 

Turning away, she hared out of the SkyClan camp 
and headed for the moor. 





CHAPTER 32 
+ 


Moth Flight stirred in her sleep, dreaming. She 
blinked open her eyes into a vision of the moorside. A 
flame-pelted tom stood below a starless sky. Moth 
Flight recognized him at once. She’d dreamed of his 
meeting with StarClan while she’d been with 
ShadowClan. A brown-and-white tabby she-cat lay on 
the wind-rippled grass beside him, so still that Moth 
Flight wondered if she was dead. A third cat twitched 
her ears, scanning the mists that swirled around them. 

Moth Flight padded closer. She knew that the other 
cats could not see or hear her. J am here to watch. 
The brown-and-white tabby sneezed suddenly and 
scrabbled to her paws. She glanced at the flame-pelted 
tom, as though looking for reassurance. He rested his 
tail-tip on her shoulder and, as he did so, a gray-and- 
white tom padded from the mist. Droplets sparkled on 
his pelt like stars. /s this a spirit-cat? 

The gray-and-white cat exchanged words with the 
flame-pelted tom. Moth Flight didn’t even strain to 
hear; she knew she’d pick up nothing but the 


whispering of wind in her ears. Then the spirit-cat 
touched his nose to the tabby’s. 

The she-cat jerked with pain. 

Moth Flight narrowed her eyes. She’d seen this 
before. The cat was receiving the agonizing blessing of 
StarClan. She worked her paws deeper into the coarse 
grass, her pelt pricking with curiosity as more cats 
appeared from the mist. 

A dark gray tom touched the brown-and-white 
tabby, and the tabby shuddered again. 

Then an older white-and-tabby she-cat stepped 
forward. They must be related. Their markings were 
similar, and the look that passed between them 
glistened with affection. Are they mother and kit? 
Moth Flight’s thoughts flicked to Wind Runner. In the 
two days since the battle, her mother seemed to have 
grown worse, not better. A moan of pain jerked her 
attention back to her dream. As the older cat touched 
noses, the young tabby stiffened and jerked, clenching 
her teeth. She swayed on her paws, but held her 
ground until the older cat withdrew and began fiercely 
lapping her cheek, as though sorry for the pain she’d 
caused. They must be mother and kit. The young 


tabby closed her eyes, seeming to relish the moment. 
Then the old tabby turned and headed into the mist. 

The young tabby watched her go, eyes desperate 
with grief. She opened her mouth to yowl. Though 
Moth Flight could not hear the words, she guessed that 
the tabby was begging her mother not to leave. 

Grief stabbed at Moth Flight’s heart, so sharp it 
jerked her awake. 

She blinked her eyes open. Her den was shady and 
cool. Through the entrance she could see sunshine 
scorching the clearing. 

Wind Runner lay beside her on a bed of moss and 
heather, her broken leg jutting over the edge. Moth 
Flight leaned close. The WindClan leader felt hotter 
than ever. What can I do? Over the past two days, 
Wind Runner had struggled into consciousness less and 
less often, sleeping most of the time now. Perhaps it 
was a blessing. It saved her from the pain. Perhaps it 
was her body’s way of healing. But if that was true, 
why was Wind Runner’s fever worsening? Perhaps 
I’m giving her too many poppy seeds? Maybe she 
needs to feel the pain to fight it. 

Moth Flight frowned. She’d helped Pebble Heart 


set her mother’s broken leg, and felt sure that they’d 
done the right thing. She’d treated the gash in her 
throat with dock and horsetail, just as Micah had taught 
her. And yet, it still oozed blood. 

She sniffed the neck wound. Her pelt pricked with 
alarm. Beneath the pungent tang of herbs, she smelled 
sour infection. Why hadn’t Micah’s poultice stopped it 
from turning bad? Was this wound what was making 
her mother so sick? If Micah’s herbs weren’t strong 
enough to heal it, what herbs should she use? 

Perhaps she should go and ask Pebble Heart. No. 
After a moon in ShadowClan, she knew his herb store 
as well as her own. There were no herbs there she 
didn’t have already. What about Dappled Pelt? When 
she’d visited RiverClan with Micah, the RiverClan 
medicine cat had only just begun to experiment with 
the lush plants growing along the riverbank. Perhaps 
she’d discovered something new, something strong 
enough to fight Wind Runner’s infection. 

“Moth Flight?” Honey Pelt’s mew interrupted her 
thoughts. He was peering at her from the den 
entrance. “Can you come and play yet?” 

She’d left her kits in the care of the Clan while 


she’d tended to Wind Runner. 

Honey Pelt’s eyes were round with worry. “We 
miss you.” 

Guilt wormed in her belly. “I’m sorry,” she told 
him. “I have to look after Wind Runner.” 

Honey Pelt didn’t argue, but turned away, his tail 
drooping. Moth Flight’s guilt deepened. 

Another shadow darkened the entrance. She 
smelled Gorse Fur’s scent before she could make out 
his pelt against the bright sunlight. 

“How is she?” Gorse Fur’s mew was grim as he 
padded in. He stopped beside Wind Runner and sniffed 
her pelt. 

“Her fever’s getting worse,’ Moth Flight 
confessed. “I’m not sure what to do.” 

A growl rolled in Gorse Fur’s throat. “This isn’t 
fair!” he snapped. “After the Great Battle, I thought 
the Clans had stopped acting like foxes! Can’t a new 
moon pass without bringing us fresh troubles?” 

Moth Flight got to her paws and met her father’s 
gaze. “I will heal her,’ she promised. “I’m going to 
RiverClan to see if Dappled Pelt has any herbs to treat 
the infection in her neck wound. Will you watch her 


while I’m gone?” 

“Of course.” 

As Gorse Fur settled close to his mate, Moth Flight 
nodded toward the wet moss piled beside her mother’s 
makeshift nest. “Drip a little water into her mouth 
every now and then,” she told him. “Send Dust Muzzle 
or Spotted Fur to get fresh if the old moss dries out.” 

Gorse Fur’s ears twitched. “Will you be gone 
long?” 

“TI be as quick as I can.” Moth Flight ducked 
from the den, screwing up her eyes against the harsh 
sunshine. Slate was lying in the long grass outside her 
den. The gray she-cat was recovering from her cough, 
but was still weak. Storm Pelt was nosing through the 
prey pile with Swift Minnow. The other hunting parties 
were still out on the moor. Jagged Peak had been 
organizing patrols while Wind Runner was sick, making 
sure the prey pile was well stocked. 

“Moth Flight!” Blue Whisker’s excited mew 
sounded from the sandy hollow. “Have you come to 
play with us?” 

Moth Flight stiffened. “I have to go and speak with 
Dappled Pett.” 


Spider Paw scrambled out of the hollow and stared 
at her. “But you haven’t played with us for days!” 

Honey Pelt and Bubbling Stream stopped wrestling 
beside Blue Whisker, untangling themselves and 
jumping to their paws. 

“Just one badger ride!” Honey Pelt mewed. 

“Please.” Bubbling Stream blinked at her eagerly. 

Moth Flight’s belly tightened with frustration. 
Digging her claws into the earth she met Honey Pelt’s 
gaze. ‘Pll play with you as much as you like once 
Wind Runner is well.” 

Slate heaved herself to her paws. “PI play with 
them,” she puffed. 

“You need to rest,” Moth Flight told her sternly. 

Storm Pelt looked up from the prey pile and called 
to Honey Pelt. “Once I’ve eaten, PI give you a badger 
ride.” 

“And me?” Bubbling Stream scrambled toward the 
young tom. 

“Eagle Feather and Dew Nose will be back from 
hunting patrol soon,” Storm Pelt told her. “Then you 
can have as many badger rides as you want.” 

Moth Flight glanced gratefully at Storm Pelt. 


“Thank you.” She headed over the tussocky clearing 
and hurried out of camp. 

The heather was browning after endless days of 
sunshine. Moth Flight looked at the horizon, hope 
flickering in her belly as she saw clouds bubbling in the 
distance. Rain might help cool Wind Runner’s fever. 
The feverfew leaves she’d given her hadn’t helped. 

She headed downslope. The dry heather jabbed 
her pelt as she nosed through it. Grass crunched 
beneath her paws. As she neared the gorge, she heard 
the faint swish of the river far below. Slowing as she 
neared the edge, she followed the steep trail that 
sloped down the cliff and flattened onto the shore. In 
newleaf, the river churned and frothed between the 
sheer sides of the gorge, swelled by moons of rain and 
snowmelt. Now, it swirled smoothly, its deep currents 
pushing quietly against the bank. Moth Flight stopped 
to lap water, her throat burning with thirst, then hurried 
along the bank as it opened onto marshland. She could 
see stepping-stones ahead and remembered, with a jab 
of grief, Micah waiting for her there only a few moons 
ago. 

This time, she would cross them alone. 


Micah? She lifted her face to the sky, hoping 
StarClan could hear her. How can I make Wind 
Runner well again? 

The sun glared down at her, stinging her eyes, and 
she hurried along the bank. If StarClan couldn’t help 
her, maybe Dappled Pelt could. 

She reached the stepping-stones and bounded 
across. The sun-drenched rocks burned her pads and 
she paused on a low stone to let the river lap over her 
paws, relishing the water’s chill. She scanned the 
reeds ahead, searching for the opening where a trail 
would lead her to the RiverClan camp. 

Fox scent touched her nose. She stiffened, 
unnerved by its freshness, and gazed along the river to 
where the water split the reed beds from the forest. 
Among the trees, birds chattered in the cool shadows. 
Wings flitted among the branches. But there was no 
sign of a red pelt between the trunks. She leaped the 
last few stones and landed on the marshy bank, pelt 
pricking as the fox stench grew stronger. She paused, 
stretching onto her hind legs to peer over the reeds. 
Was a fox skulking there? She couldn’t turn back. She 
needed to reach Dappled Pelt. Padding along the 


shore, she pricked her ears. A gap showed in the reed 
wall beside her. Her heart lifted. It was the trail she 
and Micah had followed on their first visit. She opened 
her mouth, letting scents wash her tongue. The fox 
stench was still strong. 

She paused. River Ripple would have smelled it 
surely? He’d have sent patrols to drive the fox away 
from his camp. It must be gone by now. She ignored 
the foreboding in her belly. She’d have to risk it. Wind 
Runner’s life depended on her. 

As she ducked into the reeds, squeals sounded 
behind her. 

Her heart lurched as she recognized the desperate 
mewls. 

“Spider Paw!” 

“Help him!” 

“He’ll drown!” 

She turned and saw Honey Pelt, Bubbling Stream, 
and Blue Whisker clustered on a stepping-stone in the 
middle of the river. They huddled, fur bushed, and 
stared at the water flowing away from them. 

Moth Flight followed their gaze, horror sparking 
through her fur. Her heart lurched as a paw jutted 


from the water, disappearing again as the current 
swept it onward. 

Lightning seemed to jolt through her. She pelted 
toward the stepping stones, ignoring the surprised 
squeals of Honey Pelt and Bubbling Stream. 

“Moth Flight!” 

“Spider Paw fell in!” 

She had already plunged into the water. The chill 
of it took her breath. Gulping, she struggled for the 
surface and flailed desperately toward the tiny 
whirlpool, which was all she could see of Spider Paw. 
The current grabbed her and spun her, dragging at her 
fur. Fighting to keep her muzzle above water, she 
kicked fiercely with her legs, trying to steer herself 
toward Spider Paw. The river dragged her down, 
sucking at her pelt. As water closed over her head, she 
blinked open her eyes, panic sending her thoughts 
spiraling into terror. Spider Paw. 

Moth Flight forced herself to focus, straining to see 
through the stinging water. It clouded around her and 
dragged her downstream. She kicked out determinedly, 
pushing herself upward until her head broke the 
surface long enough to take a desperate gulp. The 


squeals of Bubbling Stream, Honey Pelt, and Blue 
Whisker seemed far away. She could hardly hear them 
as water gurgled in her ears. Reeds blurred at the edge 
of her vision as the river swept her under again. 

Prepared this time, she struck out with her hind 
legs and scanned the murky water. A pale shape 
showed ahead, white fur in the spinning current. 
Spider Paw! Blood roared in her ears and she flailed, 
trying to swim. She shot forward, closing the gap 
between her and Spider Paw. Reaching out with a 
forepaw, she felt fur snag between her claws. She 
grabbed it and fought once more for the surface. 

She broke into fresh air, a bundle flailing against 
her chest. Its scent filled her nose. It was definitely 
Spider Paw. 

Churning her hind paws, she managed to keep her 
head above water. Dizzy with fear and disorientated by 
the swirling river, she looked for the bank, her heart 
sinking as she saw it across a vast stretch of water. 

I can make it! Gritting her teeth, she steered 
herself toward it, fear sparking through every hair as 
the struggling bundle in her claws grew limp. Grunting 
with effort, she tried to heave Spider Paw above the 


surface. “Lift your head!” she ordered sharply. 
“Breathe!” She shook her paw, desperately trying to 
rouse him as she struggled closer to the bank. 

His muzzle dragged through the water. 

Is he dead? 

Her hind paws hit stones and she scrabbled to find 
her footing as the riverbed rose to meet them. Limping, 
she dragged Spider Paw from the water and laid him 
on the pebbly shore. 

Panic scorched beneath her pelt as she stared at 
his bedraggled body. His muzzle lolled to one side. His 
paws flopped onto the stones. “Spider Paw!” Her mind 
clouded with dread. Her paws froze beneath her. 

Moth Flight. A distant voice sounded in her ears. 
Remember what Dappled Pelt did. 

“Micah?” Moth Flight gazed numbly around as she 
recognized his calm mew. 

Remember Drizzle. 

Of course! Pushing fear away, Moth Flight lifted 
her forepaws and rested them on Spider Paw’s white 
chest. She began pumping, her thoughts clearing. 
Juniper Branch’s kit! She’d done this before! Spider 
Paw was much stronger. “Breathe!” she growled, 


pumping harder. 

Spider Paw jerked suddenly beneath her paws and 
coughed up water. 

She rolled him quickly onto his side and massaged 
his flank. Then she glanced upstream. The river had 
carried her far from the stepping-stones. She’d 
climbed out beside the reed beds, on RiverClan’s side. 
She narrowed her eyes, searching for Honey Pelt, 
Bubbling Stream, and Blue Whisker. 

The stepping-stones were empty. 

Her pelt spiked with fear as fox scent touched her 
nose. “Hurry!” She nosed Spider Paw up. “We have to 
find your littermates and get out of here.” Hardly 
daring to look around, she grabbed Spider Paw’s scruff 
and picked him up. He churned his paws indignantly as 
she carried him along the bank toward the stepping- 
stones. Where are they? She scanned the far shore, 
her gaze flitting over the water and toward the reed 
beds. Her heart lifted. Three shapes crouched at the 
water’s edge, shadowed by the reeds. They’d crossed 
the stepping-stones and were waiting for her on this 
side of the river. She raced toward them, scrambling to 
a halt and dropping Spider Paw beside Honey Pett. 


Fox stench still soured the air. 

“Come on!” She began to herd them toward the 
stepping-stones. “We have to get out of here.” Alone, 
she had been willing to risk meeting the fox, but her 
kits would be easy prey for it. She had to get them out 
of danger. 

As they reached the crossing, she darted in front. 
“Wait on the shore,” she told them. ‘PI carry you 
across one at a time.” She wasn’t going to let another 
kit fall n. Snatching Blue Whisker by the scruff, she 
bounded across the stones and dropped her on the far 
shore. Racing back, she scanned the reed beds, her 
heart pounding as she looked for flashes of red fur 
among the stems. 

There was no sign of fox, only its stench heavy in 
the air. She grabbed Spider Paw and carried him, 
dangling, across the river. Bounding back, she thanked 
Dappled Pelt silently for the many trips across the 
stepping-stones. Her paws seemed to find the rocks 
without her looking. She picked up Bubbling Stream 
and turned, grit cracking beneath her paws. Leaping 
over the stones a third time, she set Bubbling Stream 
down beside Blue Whisker and turned back for Honey 


Pelt. 

The yellow kit was already halfway across the 
stones. 

Moth Flight froze, her eyes widening with fear. 

“I'm okay!” Honey Pelt paused and met her gaze. 

Hardly breathing, Moth Flight watched him bound 
onto the next stone. His paws skidded on the rock, but 
he kept his balance and leaped for the next. Two more 
stones and he reached the shore. 

Moth Flight stared at him, anger churning beside 
pride in her belly. “Why did you come here?” she 
snapped. “It's not safe!” 

Blue Whisker stared at her with round eyes. “But 
you came here,” she mewed anxiously. 

“I know how to take care of myself.” Moth Flight 
jerked her gaze toward Spider Paw. “I can cross the 
river without falling in.” 

Spider Paw looked tiny, his wet pelt slicked against 
his bones. He blinked at her, his green eyes glittering 
with guilt. 

Moth Flight’s heart twisted. She’d nearly lost him! 
She pressed her muzzle against his cheek, then began 
lapping the water from his fur. 


Honey Pelt nudged her flank. “Shouldn’t we go?” 
he mewed. “I can smell fox.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him. Then she glanced 
toward the reed beds. She needed to speak with 
Dappled Pelt. But first, she had to get her kits out of 
danger. “Follow me,” she ordered. She led the way 
along the shore, heading for the gorge and the steep 
trail onto the moor. 

As they reached the top, her shoulders loosened. 
Fresh wind whipped down from the moortop, clearing 
the stench of fox from her nose. She nosed her kits 
forward and began to guide them toward camp. 

As they neared the hollow, she spotted Gorse Fur 
and Storm Pelt zigzagging over the grass. Gorse Fur 
lifted his tail as he saw her and called to Storm Pett. 
“They’re safe!” 

The toms raced to meet her, slithering to a halt as 
they neared. 

“I don’t know how they snuck out,” Storm Pelt 
panted. “Gorse Fur was at the entrance.” 

Honey Pelt lifted his nose. “We used the tunnel 
White Tail showed me.” 

Gorse Fur eyed the kits sternly. “You were 


supposed to stay in camp.” 

Bubbling Stream glared at him. “We wanted to find 
Moth Flight.” 

“She was by the river,’ Blue Whisker told him 
breathlessly. 

“I fell in,’ Spider Paw announced. 

Gorse Fur’s pelt spiked. 

“Moth Flight had to save me,’ Spider Paw 
explained. 

Moth Flight shook out her dripping pelt. As her 
fear ebbed, irritation prickled in her paws. She was 
supposed to be asking Dappled Pelt about herbs for 
Wind Runner, not escorting her kits home. Her 
mother’s life was at stake. She looked at Gorse Fur. “T 
have to go back.” 

Honey Pelt looked alarmed. “But there’s a fox.” 

Moth Flight glanced toward the gorge. “River 
Ripple will have sent a patrol to drive it away by now.” 

Blue Whisker pressed against her flank. “But what 
if he hasn’t?” 

Moth Flight ignored her. There wasn’t time to 
worry. “How’s Wind Runner?” she asked Gorse Fur. 

“She’s talking,” he told her. “But her words don’t 


make any sense. She opened her eyes for a while, but 
it was like she couldn’t see me.” 

Moth Flight’s heart quickened. Her fever must be 
worse. She turned away. “Dappled Pelt will know 
what to do.” She raced for the gorge. “Watch the 
kits!” 

“What about the fox?” Storm Pelt called after her. 

“Tl deal with that if I have to. Just stay with the 
kits!” Moth Flight felt the wind whip her words away 
as she hurtled downslope. 

Would Dappled Pelt know? Fear crawled beneath 
her fur. What if the RiverClan medicine cat couldn’t 
help? She could go to Cloud Spots. Or Acorn Fur. Her 
mind began to spin. What if none of them knew how to 
save Wind Runner? 

I have to try. She pushed harder against the grass, 
the wind singing in her ears. 

Orange-and-white fur showed at the top of the 
gorge. Moth Flight slowed, narrowing her eyes. 
Dappled Pelt! The tortoiseshell she-cat was padding 
toward her. 

Moth Flight raced to meet her. 

Dappled Pelt’s eyes shone with relief as Moth 


Flight skidded to a halt in front of her. “I smelled your 
scent beside the river.” 

“I was coming to see you.” Moth Flight caught her 
breath. 

“There’s been a fox hunting on our land,” Dappled 
Pelt told her. “I was worried it had hurt you.” 

“I smelled it,” Moth Flight told her. 

“River Ripple sent out patrols to chase it off.” 
Dappled Pelt flicked her tail. “Why did you want to see 
me?” 

“Wind Runner’s sick,” Moth Flight told her. “I think 
it’s an infection in her neck wound. I’ve tried dock and 
horsetail, but the wound smells sour and she has a 
fever. Do you have any herbs I could try?” 

Dappled Pelt frowned. “It sounds as though the 
infection’s gone too deep for poultices,” she meowed 
gravely. “I don’t know any herbs that can fight it from 
inside.” 

Fur lifted along Moth Flight’s spine. “Then there’s 
nothing I can do?” She glanced toward the forest, not 
waiting for an answer. “Perhaps Cloud Spots will 
know.” 

Dappled Pelt followed her gaze, her eyes dark. 


“Perhaps.” She didn’t sound convinced. “Wind 
Runner’s fate might be for StarClan to decide.” 

“No!” What if nothing could save Wind Runner? 
Helplessness swamped Moth Flight, the ground 
seeming to shift beneath her paws. “There must be 
something I can do! I’ma healer!” 

Dappled Pelt dropped her gaze. “Some wounds 
cannot be healed.” 

Moth Flight’s thoughts spun. She stared 
desperately at Dappled Pelt, but the tortoiseshell was 
avoiding her gaze. 

Suddenly, green wings fluttered at the edge of her 
vision. 

She recognized them at once. 

The moth! Turning sharply, she saw it—the 
beautiful, great moth that had led her to Highstones. 

Why had it come back now? She stared at it, 
energy sparking in her paws. It circled her then flitted 
upslope, dancing on the breeze as it had all those 
moons ago, as though it was beckoning her. 

Moth Flight glanced at Dappled Pelt. Had she seen 
it too? 

The RiverClan medicine cat was gazing at the 


moth, her eyes glittering with curiosity. 
The moth fluttered farther uphill, and paused again. 
“Tt wants me to follow it,’ Moth Flight breathed. 
Dappled Pelt leaned forward, her pelt pricking. 
“Then follow it,” she murmured. 
Hope flickering in her chest, Moth Flight raced 
after the moth. 
Did it have the answer she’d been searching for? 


Could the green moth show her how to save Wind 
Runner’s life? 





CHAPTER 33 
+ 


As Moth Flight followed the moth upslope, a chilly 
breeze lifted her fur. She glanced over her shoulder 
and saw clouds rolling in behind her, darkening the sky 
over the forest and marshes. Rain was coming. 

She ran quicker, skirting the camp as the moth 
fluttered farther and farther ahead. 

Wait for me! Moth Flight suddenly realized how 
tired she was. The days of tending to Wind Runner and 
the long run back and forth to the river had worn her 
out. But she had to keep going. The moth was showing 
her something. 

But what? She paused as she reached the high 
moor, the ground sloping away ahead of her, rolling 
down into the valley toward Highstones. 

The moth flitted on and Moth Flight followed it 
over the crest of the slope and raced downhill. 7t 
wants me to go to Highstones again! Her heart 
lifted. Perhaps StarClan was waiting there with advice. 
Were they going to tell her how to cure Wind Runner? 

The moth stopped, hovering on the breeze. Then it 


ducked past Moth Flight, heading back toward the 
moor. 

Moth Flight turned in surprise, skidding on the 
grass. “Where are you going?” She raced after it and 
watched it bob downslope toward the camp. It halted 
again and shivered in midair while she caught up. 

Frustration surged beneath Moth Flight’s pelt. 
“Where do you want me to go?” she demanded. 

The moth bobbed once more toward Highstones. 
Moth Flight turned to follow but, the moment she did, 
the moth headed back toward camp. There, it hung in 
the air, letting the wind toss it one way, then the other. 

“Make up your mind!” Moth Flight froze, her anger 
melting. Around her the wind grew stronger, sharp 
with the scent of rain. Her dreams of the Moonstone 
flashed in her mind. The cats she’d seen there had all 
been accompanied by a Clanmate. And when they 
arrived, StarClan had given them something. Moth 
Flight plucked impatiently at the grass, thinking hard. 
She knew it must mean something. Something that 
mattered now! That’s why StarClan had sent the moth 
to fetch her. 

Not just me! Moth Flight understood. As the first 


drops fell from the darkening clouds, she blinked at the 
moth. “You want me to bring Wind Runner!” The moth 
fluttered closer to the camp, as though agreeing. Moth 
Flight hurried after it. “You want me to lead her to the 
Moonstone!” 

As she yowled into the wind, the moth fluttered 
higher, its green wings bright against the gray sky. 
Deep in her belly, Moth Flight knew she was right. 
StarClan was waiting to give Wind Runner the same 
gift they’d given the other cats in her dreams. Would it 
save her life? 

She had to try. Narrowing her eyes against the 
thickening rain, Moth Flight raced for camp. 

Spotted Fur, Fern Leaf, and Dust Muzzle were 
carrying fresh prey toward the prey pile. They stared 
in surprise as she passed them. Swift Minnow was 
nosing Slate toward the shelter of the camp wall, while 
Reed Tail slid into Rocky’s den, a wad of comfrey in 
his jaws. 

Black Ear sat proudly beneath the tall rock, 
ignoring the rain battering his muzzle. A freshly killed 
rabbit lay beside him. Honey Pelt, Bubbling Stream, 
and Spider Paw crowded around him, their pelts 


soaked. “Look what I caught!” he called to Moth 
Flight as she bounded past. 

She slowed, glancing at the rabbit. 

Bubbling Stream was sniffing it, her ears twitching 
with excitement. “/’m going to catch a rabbit soon,” 
she mewed. 

Moth Flight paused. “Go and shelter with Slate and 
Swift Minnow,” she told them distractedly. Her 
attention was fixed on her den. How was she going to 
explain her plan to Gorse Fur? Could Wind Runner 
even make it to Highstones? She has to! 

Bubbling Stream scrambled out of the hollow. 
“Moth Flight!” Hurt edged her mew as her mother 
headed away. 

“Not now!” Moth Flight called. “I’m busy!” 

Spider Paw jumped out of the hollow and blinked 
at her. “You promised you’d play with us!” 

“Shouldn’t you be taking care of your kits?” 
Jagged Peak padded from the shelter of the gorse, his 
eyes narrow with interest, while Holly watched from 
the shadows behind. 

Moth Flight ignored him. She slid into her den. 
“T’ve had a sign from StarClan,” she told Gorse Fur. 


Her father was crouched beside Wind Runner. He 
jerked around, his pelt pricking nervously. “Is she going 
to be okay?” 

“T have to take her to the Moonstone.” Moth Flight 
tried to catch her breath. 

“Highstones!” Gorse Fur leaped up, eyes blazing. 
“She can’t travel!” He swung his nose toward Wind 
Runner. She lay sprawled on the bed of heather, her 
comfrey-wrapped leg jutting awkwardly. Her eyes 
were half closed, whites showing through the slits. 

Moth Flight stiffened, fear stabbing her heart. Was 
Wind Runner dead? She ducked down beside the 
WindClan leader, relieved to feel her mother’s flanks 
tremble. Her breath was fast. Heat pulsed from her 
pelt. 

“PI mix her some herbs to give her strength for 
the journey.” Moth Flight hurried to her store, plucking 
leaves from between the gorse stems. 

“No!” Gorse Fur growled. “You’re not taking her 
anywhere.” 

Moth Flight shredded a pawful of feverfew and 
ripped nettle, catmint, and coltsfoot onto the pile. She 
sprinkled poppy seeds over it, hoping they’d ease her 


mother’s pain without making her sleepy. She had to 
do everything she could to get Wind Runner to the 
Moonstone. 

Gorse Fur’s breath billowed over her ears. “Did 
you hear me?” 

Moth Flight looked at him. “I can’t sit and watch 
her die.” 

“You can’t take her out there to die!” Gorse Fur’s 
pelt spiked with fury. “If she’s going to die, she should 
be with her Clan.” 

“If I can get her to the Moonstone, she won t die!” 
Moth Flight glared at her father. “StarClan is guiding 
me. I know it!” A shadow moved at the den entrance. 
Jagged Peak slid in, his pelt wet with rain. “Have you 
spoken with StarClan?” 

Moth Flight met his gaze. “In my dreams, yes!” 

“And they told you to take Wind Runner to the 
Moonstone?” Jagged Peak tipped his head. 

“Not exactly,’ Moth Flight snapped. “But I know 
that’s what they meant.” 

Jagged Peak narrowed his eyes. “You think that’s 
what they meant.” 

Moth Flight growled. “I know it.” 


Gorse Fur padded to Wind Runner’s side and 
gazed down at her. “She”s in no state to travel.” 

“She will be.” Moth Flight grabbed a mouthful of 
shredded leaves and pushed past him. She spat the 
scraps onto the heather beside Wind Runner’s muzzle. 
“Wind Runner, can you swallow these?” 

Wind Runner moaned softly, but didn’t open her 
eyes. 

Panic flashed in Moth Flight’s belly. 

“Leave her in peace!” 

Moth Flight felt her father’s claws drag her 
backward. She turned on him, hissing. “You have to 
trust me! You have to trust StarClan! When Half 
Moon made me a medicine cat, she told me that the 
Clans’ destiny would one day depend on me.” 

Jagged Peak leaned forward, ears flat. “What has 
this got to do with the Clans’ destiny?” 

“I don’t know!” Moth Flight trembled with rage. 
“But you have to let me find out.” 

Fur brushed the heather at the den entrance. A 
gentle mew sounded behind Jagged Peak. “Trust her, 
Gorse Fur.” 

Dust Muzzle! Gratitude swept Moth Flight as she 


saw her brother’s solemn gaze. He padded past 
Jagged Peak and stopped in front of his father. “Has 
she ever been wrong?” 

Gorse Fur hesitated, his eyes glittering with fear. 
He glanced at Wind Runner, then at Moth Flight. 
Finally, he dropped his gaze. “No.” 

“Then let her take Wind Runner,’ Dust Muzzle 
murmured. 

Gorse Fur began to tremble. “But she’ ll die.” 

“Don’t be frightened, Gorse Fur.” Wind Runner’s 
parched mew sounded from the heather. 

Moth Flight jerked around to see her mother 
blinking up at them. 

Gorse Fur turned beside her. 

Wind Runner went on. “Every cat must die. But I 
won’t go without a fight. I am WindClan’s leader and I 
must show I have courage. It will give my Clan 
courage. I will go to the Moonstone with Moth Flight.” 

Moth Flight’s heart leaped. She trusts me! 

Jagged Peak stared at the WindClan leader, his 
eyes round with surprise. “But you’re too weak!” 

“TI find the strength.” Wind Runner’s eyes were 
clouded with pain. 


“Eat these.” Moth Flight nosed the shredded 
leaves closer and Wind Runner turned her head to lap 
them from the heather. 

She swallowed and gazed into Moth Flight’s eyes. 
“I am proud of you, Moth Flight. You are ready to fight 
for what you believe in.” 

Joy washed through Moth Flight’s pelt. Wind 
Runner struggled onto her three good paws, grunting 
with pain as her broken leg trailed on the ground, held 
stiff by the swaths of comfrey. At once, Moth Flight 
ducked down beside her and eased the wrappings 
enough for her to tuck her hind paw beneath her. 

Limping on three legs, Wind Runner headed past 
Jagged Peak. 

Gorse Fur hurried after her. “I’m coming with 
you!” 

Wind Runner swung her head around. “No.” 

Gorse Fur blinked at her, clearly shocked. “But—” 
She cut him off. “If I don’t make it back, WindClan 
will need you.” She glanced at Jagged Peak. “Gorse 
Fur will be the next leader.” Limping out of the den, 
she left Gorse Fur gazing after her. 

Moth Flight’s paws trembled as she saw the 


helpless grief on her father’s face. 

“Pll make sure she comes home,” she promised 
desperately. Please, StarClan. Save her! 

She followed her mother into the clearing. Rain 
battered her face. It pounded the clearing and pooled 
among the tussocks. The wide, dark sky glowered over 
the camp. She felt fur brush her flank as Dust Muzzle 
stopped beside her. 

“We’re coming with you.” He beckoned Spotted 
Fur with a flick of his tail. 

Spotted Fur looked up from the mouse he was 
eating beside the drenched prey pile. His eyes rounded, 
questioningly. 

“We’re taking Wind Runner to the Moonstone,” 
Dust Muzzle called. 

Spotted Fur leaped to his paws and hurried to join 
them. “Can she walk that far?” His gaze followed 
Wind Runner. She was padding clumsily through the 
tussocks. 

Holly darted out from the shelter of the gorse. 
“She’s too ill to leave camp!” 

Swift Minnow stared after her leader. “Wind 
Runner! Come back!” 


“Where’s she going?” Storm Pelt stopped, Spider 
Paw clinging to his broad shoulders. Honey Pelt and 
Bubbling Stream stood beside him, their ears pricked. 

Moth Flight blinked at Storm Pelt. “I’m taking her 
to the Moonstone.” 

“You’ve only just got back!” Honey Pelt mewed. 

Spider Paw shook the rain from his pelt. “Stay with 
us!” 

Moth Flight avoided their gaze. I can t, my loves. I 
have to save Wind Runner. Her heart seemed to 
crack inside her chest. 

Gorse Fur padded from the medicine den. His gaze 
swept the watching cats. “This is something Wind 
Runner must do.” He nodded to Moth Flight. “StarClan 
has called her and she must go.” 

Moth Flight raced back to her father and pressed 
her cheek against his. “PI take care of her,” she 
whispered before pulling away and heading after Wind 
Runner. 

“Moth Flight!” Blue Whisker’s mew sounded 
beside the heather wall. Moth Flight turned to see her 
kit, cowering from the rain. Her wet pelt clung to her 
tiny frame. She stared at her mother anxiously. “Are 


you leaving again?” 

Moth Flight hurried to her kit and snatched her up 
by her scruff. Bounding across the tussocks, she 
dropped her at the entrance to Rocky’s den and nosed 
her inside. “Keep her warm and dry while I’m gone!” 
Her mew echoed into the heather cave. 

Reed Tail stuck his head out. 

“Tm taking Wind Runner to the Moonstone,” Moth 
Flight told him. “Take care of the Clan. I’ll be back as 
soon as I can.” 

“Moth Flight!” Blue Whisker’s plaintive mew 
sounded from the shadows. 

Rocky’s rumbling purr answered her. “She’ll be 
back soon.” 

Moth Flight turned away, sorrow weighing like a 
stone in her belly. Raindrops streamed from her 
whiskers. I’m sorry, kits. I have to do this. 

Spotted Fur and Dust Muzzle had already reached 
Wind Runner. They walked on either side, pressing 
their shoulders against hers to support her. Moth Flight 
hurried after them, catching up as they reached the 
camp entrance. 

Outside, the rain streaked the moorside, whipped 


by the wind. Wind Runner’s face was stiff with pain, 
her eyes firmly fixed ahead. Moth Flight slid into the 
lead, choosing the easiest path to the moortop. 

She reached the crest first and looked back, 
stiffening as she realized how far behind Wind Runner 
had fallen, even with Spotted Fur and Dust Muzzle 
supporting her. She glanced at the sky, wishing the 
clouds would clear. She’d been rabbit-brained to hope 
for rain! Wheres the sun? Was it slipping toward 
Highstones yet? They must get there before the moon 
rose. In her dreams, the Moonstone had blazed with 
moonlight when the other cats had met StarClan. Wind 
Runner must be there when it did. 

What if the clouds didn’t clear? What if moonlight 
couldn’t touch the stone? Her pelt spiked. She pushed 
away the thought. Just get her there! She beckoned 
Dust Muzzle to hurry, flicking her tail urgently. He 
gazed at her pleadingly. She knew he was doing his 
best. They couldn’t risk pushing Wind Runner too hard. 
But they had to get there tonight. Moth Flight guessed 
that her mother couldn’t survive another day’s raging 
fever. 

She gazed through the rain to the Thunderpath 


below. Monsters roared, thundering in both directions, 
their eyes lit up, spraying walls of water in their wake. 

How would they get Wind Runner across? 

She hurried down the slope, leaving Dust Muzzle 
and Spotted Fur to follow with Wind Runner. As she 
neared the bottom, where the Thunderpath cut through 
the grass, she slowed. Monster stench stung her eyes 
and burned her throat. The ground trembled beneath 
her paws. She watched the gaps between monsters, 
trying to judge whether there would be enough time to 
get Wind Runner between them. 

When she glanced back, her heart sank. Spotted 
Fur and Dust Muzzle were still near the top of the 
slope. She'll never be fast enough! Heart racing, she 
pelted toward them, circling as she reached them. 
Wind Runner hardly seemed to focus her gaze. Moth 
Flight thrust her muzzle close, smelling the rank stench 
of infection in her mother’s breath. Then she saw 
blood seeping from the wound in her neck. Rain 
dripped from her fur, reddened by her blood. / should 
have brought cobwebs! Moth Flight cursed herself 
for being so dumb. 

“How’s she doing?” she asked Dust Muzzle. 


Wind Runner paused and lifted her gaze hazily. 
“T’m doing okay,” she rasped. 

It was strange for Moth Flight to see her mother so 
weak. She’d always seemed stronger than any cat. 

Dust Muzzle exchanged a look with Moth Flight. 
She saw fear flash in his eyes as he glimpsed the busy 
Thunderpath. “We’ll never get her across there!” 

“We have to,” Moth Flight told him. 

Spotted Fur narrowed his eyes. “If we get the 
timing right, we could just do it.” 

Moth Flight looked at him hopefully. 

“We might have to stop in the middle,” he added. 

“Stop in the middle?” Moth Flight could hardly 
believe her ears. 

Dust Muzzle was following Spotted Fur’s gaze. 
“There’s a narrow channel where the monsters pass 
each other. If they don’t touch each other, they won’t 
touch us.” 

Moth Flight’s belly twisted with fear as she 
realized they’d have to try. It was their only chance. 
“Okay.” She turned toward the Thunderpath and 
headed slowly toward tt. 

She could hear her mother’s breathing as she 


struggled to keep up. Wind Runner was fighting for 
every breath. Her injured hind paw was tucked 
beneath her. Moth Flight couldn’t imagine the pain that 
compelled her to keep it from trailing along the ground. 

She fixed her thoughts ahead before fear could 
overwhelm her. We 're going to do this! 

As they neared the Thunderpath, she began to 
judge the gaps between the monsters once more. As 
the rain grew heavier, the monsters seemed to slow, 
the gaps between them widening. 

“Come on!” They had to cross while the rain was 
at its heaviest. She crouched at the edge of the black 
stone, screwing up her eyes as a monster hurtled past. 
Filthy water arced like a wave over her back and 
sprayed Spotted Fur, Dust Muzzle, and Wind Runner 
as they caught up. 

“Give me a moment to catch my breath,’ Wind 
Runner growled. She slumped as Dust Muzzle stepped 
away, her flanks heaving. 

Moth Flight leaned close to her muzzle. “I hope I 
can be as brave as you one day.” 

Wind Runner lifted her gaze. “You already are.” 

“Let’s go!” Dust Muzzle nosed Moth Flight away, 


pressing hard against Wind Runner. A wide gap had 
opened between two monsters. 

This was their chance. Moth Flight hopped onto 
the Thunderpath, pausing to make sure Wind Runner 
was following. Spotted Fur and Dust Muzzle half 
carried the WindClan leader onto the stone. Wind 
Runner fought to find her paws. “I can do this!” she 
hissed through gritted teeth. Shaking the toms away, 
she limped forward. Moth Flight turned to face the 
oncoming monster. It pounded toward them, its eyes 
flaring. Another monster hurtled toward them from the 
other direction. 

“Wait here!” Spotted Fur screeched, throwing 
himself against Wind Runner. Moth Flight ducked into 
her mother. Dust Muzzle pressed against them. Moth 
Flight screwed up her eyes, and her heart seemed to 
burst as the two monsters screamed past on either 
side. Foul water drenched her pelt as the ground shook 
beneath her paws. 

“Move!” Dust Muzzle’s order was sharp. 

Moth Flight opened her eyes and saw that the way 
to the far side was clear. 

Wind Runner straightened with a groan of pain and 


hobbled toward the verge. Spotted Fur pushed his 
shoulder beneath her and urged her on. The roar of 
another monster screamed in Moth Flight’s ears. She 
turned her head, blinded by the glare of its eyes. 

“Don't look! Run!” Dust Muzzle shoved her 
forward and she stumbled over the edge of the 
Thunderpath, collapsing onto the muddy grass beyond 
as the paw of a monster whisked past her tail The 
wind from its passing tugged her dripping fur. 

“Wind Runner!” She looked around, fear shrilling 
through her. Wind Runner was lying on the grass a tail- 
length ahead. 

Spotted Fur half cradled her against his belly. He 
struggled from beneath her. “I fell” he grunted, 
shaking rainwater from his fur. Dust Muzzle hurried to 
help Wind Runner to her paws. 

Moth Flight was on his heels. “Are you okay?” 
She sniffed her mother’s broken leg. The swaths of 
comfrey were hanging from it loosely. Wind Runner 
flinched as she touched it with her nose. 

Moth Flight looked into her mother’s eyes, seeing 
agony spark in their amber depths. Then she looked 
back at the Thunderpath. Monsters streaked back and 


forth, picking up speed as the rain began to ease. The 
gaps closed between them. There was no way back 
now. They had to keep going. 

“Can you do this?” She searched Wind Runner’s 
gaze, praying she’d say yes. 

Wind Runner nodded and struggled to her paws. 
Dust Muzzle and Spotted Fur flanked her. 

Moth Flight blinked through the rain, scanning the 
meadows ahead. Perhaps she’d find some poppy 
seeds along the way. Anything to ease her mother’s 
suffering. 

They crossed the sodden fields slowly. Mud clung 
to their paws as they skirted meadows and squeezed 
beneath hedgerows. Every few steps, Moth Flight 
glanced up at Highstones, hoping each time that they’d 
loom larger. But it seemed that, with each paw step, 
the great, dark cliffs were moving farther away. We’ll 
never make it! Starmg at the ground, Moth Flight 
trudged on. She could hear Wind Runner swallowing 
back gasps of agony. Rain thrummed her pelt as the 
fields around them darkened. She focused on the mud 
clogging her paws as she tried to block the fear 
churning in her belly. She flattened her ears against the 


pained growling of Wind Runner. 

Was I wrong? Doubt sliced into her thoughts. 
What if she’d misunderstood her dreams? What if the 
moth had nothing to do with StarClan? Moths and 
butterflies danced across the heather all greenleaf. 
Why was this one special? 

She lifted her head, blinking at Spotted Fur and 
Dust Muzzle as they helped Wind Runner squeeze 
beneath a hedge. She could hardly see them in the 
darkness. Dusk was passing and night rolling in. 

Had they come all this way for nothing? She 
stopped, frozen with fear. 

“Moth Flight?” Dust Muzzle’s call jerked her from 
her thoughts. She stared at him as he turned from the 
hedge and headed toward her. “Are you all right?” 

“What if I was wrong?” she whispered. 

“You’re never wrong,” Dust Muzzle told her. 

Moth Flight hardly heard him. “Gorse Fur said that 
if she’s going to die, she should be with her Clan. And 
we’ve taken her away from them.” 

“She’s with us.” Dust Muzzle leaned closer, 
keeping his mew low. “And she’s not going to die.” 

Moth Flight looked past him. She could just make 


out the shapes of Spotted Fur and Wind Runner 
beyond the hedge. The WindClan leader was lying on 
the ground. Moth Flight darted forward, panic spiraling 
in her chest. She wriggled under the hedge and sniffed 
Wind Runner’s muzzle. Was she still breathing? 

“T’m just resting,’ Wind Runner grunted. 

Moth Flight’s paws trembled beneath her as relief 
swept her pelt. 

“Did you think Pd give up when we were so 
close?” She lifted her chin from the muddy earth and 
looked toward Highstones. 

Moth Flight blinked in surprise. They were nearly 
there! As she gazed up at the sheer cliff face, green 
wings fluttered above her. She looked up and saw the 
moth bobbing toward the dark opening in the stone. 

Hope flared in Moth Flight’s belly. J must trust 
myself more! “Come on!” She nosed Wind Runner 
gently to her paws. “We have to get there before the 
moon does.” 

“Are we racing the moon?” Wind Runner glanced 
at her out of the corner of her eye, amusement flashing 
through her pain. “I always told Gorse Fur you were a 
strange one... .” 


Affection opened like a flower in Moth Flight’s 
chest. 

Then Wind Runner coughed, her paws buckling 
beneath her. Moth Flight smelled the scent of fresh 
blood. She pressed her shoulder against her mother’s 
as Dust Muzzle slid around the other side. Wind 
Runner’s fur felt warm and wet and Moth Flight 
guessed that her neck wound was bleeding heavily 
now. Please let her make it. Praying to StarClan, she 
began to guide Wind Runner onward. / just hope the 
Moonstone can save you. 





CHAPTER 34 
+ 


“You have to wait here.” Moth Flight gazed solemnly 
at Spotted Fur. She nodded to Dust Muzzle. “You too.” 
They had managed to haul Wind Runner over the 
stone lip of the cave. Wind Runner leaned against Dust 
Muzzle, her eyes clouded. She murmured under her 
breath. “Where’s Gorse Fur? Tell him I’m coming.” 

Moth Flight glanced at her mother anxiously. Wind 
Runner was clearly lost in a feverish world of pain. 

Dust Muzzle peered into the darkness at the back 
of the cave. “Where’s the Moonstone?” 

“It's down a tunnel,” Moth Flight told him. 

“Can you get her there alone?” 

“I must.” She was their medicine cat. She alone 
must guide her mother to StarClan. 

Spotted Fur shifted his paws uneasily. “We could 
help her there and then leave.” 

Moth Flight hesitated. Wind Runner was 
exhausted. Do I really have the strength to help her 
though the tunnel? Outside, the clouds were clearing, 
revealing the night sky. Stars stretched to the distant 


moor. So much depends on me. Spotted Fur and Dust 
Muzzle were hunters—moor runners who fed the 
Clan. My bond with StarClan is special. Her belly 
hardened. She met Spotted Fur’s gaze. “I must do this 
alone.” 

Slidng between Wind Runner and Dust Muzzle, 
she staggered as she took Wind Runner’s weight. 
“Come on,” she whispered, hoping her mother could 
hear her. 

Wind Runner padded forward unsteadily. Moth 
Flight pressed her paws hard against the stone, trying 
to keep her balance as she steered the WindClan 
leader toward the back of cave. As darkness 
swallowed them, she became sharply aware of her 
mother’s rasping breath and the scuffing of their paws 
as they limped together into the tunnel. The air grew 
cold, swirlng around them like freezing water. The 
tunnel sloped beneath Moth Flight’s paws. The dank 
scent of stone was masked by the iron tang of Wind 
Runner’s blood. A droplet smacked the tunnel floor. 
Moth Flight felt it spray her paws. Another drop fell, 
the sound ringing around the stone walls. 

Moth Flight pushed on faster, heaving her mother 


forward with every step. Dont die. Her heart 
quickened. Wind Runner’s dripping blood spattered her 
fur. Ignoring the fear that was tightening like bindweed 
around her heart, she focused on moving forward, 
letting her whiskers brush the cave wall where she 
could, carefully following the twisting tunnel deeper 
into the earth. Every sense was fixed ahead, every 
thought willing Wind Runner on. You can do it. 

Her mother’s breath was growing uneven—a few 
short breaths, followed by the desperate drawing in of 
air. Moth Flight swallowed. Each breath sounded like 
Wind Runner’s last. 

Moth Flight smelled fresh air. It felt warm on her 
nose after the icy chill of the tunnel. 

The cave! 

They’d made it. 

A few more steps and the walls opened into the 
Moonstone cavern. Soft starlight filtered through the 
hole in the roof. The Moonstone rose, still and dark, 
from the middle of the cave floor. Grunting with effort, 
Moth Flight heaved her mother forward and let her 
collapse against it. Wind Runner gasped as she fell, 
then lay still. 


Moth Flight backed away, heart pounding. 

Her mother didn’t move. 

“Wind Runner?” Moth Flight’s paws felt rooted to 
the stone. She stared, terror clutching her chest. Was it 
too late? 

Suddenly the Moonstone blazed into white fire. 
Moth Flight flinched, screwing up her eyes. Through a 
slitted gaze, she saw moonlight flooding through the 
hole in the roof. 

She strained to see her mother, and could just 
make out her body, a dark shadow against the glittering 
stone. 

Please move. Desperately, she willed Wind 
Runner to twitch an ear, or move a paw. Show me 
you 're alive! 

A soft mew sounded beside her ear. 

Everything will be fine. 

Moth Flight froze as she recognized the mew. Her 
breath stopped in her throat as she smelled a familiar 
scent. “Micah?” 

Fur brushed hers and she snapped her head 
around, meeting his gaze a muzzle-length from hers. 

Micah blinked slowly at her, his pelt sparkling with 


starlight. His warmth seemed to melt into her and she 
realized suddenly how cold and wet she was. She 
softened against him, letting herself lean into the 
familiar curve of his flank. He pressed his cheek 
against hers. “You’ve done so well.” His mew was 
thick with love. 

Joy flared in her chest. “Will Wind Runner be 
okay?” 

“You’ve done all that you can,” he breathed. “Now 
she belongs to StarClan.” 

She stiffened. Belongs to StarClan? Was she 
dead? 

Micah’s breath stirred her ear fur. “One day you 
will gather the scattered petals of the Blazing Star, but 
not yet.” 

She drew away from him and stared into his green 
gaze. “What do you mean?” 

He blinked at her. “Just watch,” he whispered. He 
turned his head toward the Moonstone. 

Moth Flight followed his gaze. Around the 
shimmering rock, pelts were appearing, sparkling as 
though stars were woven into the fur. 

StarClan had come. 


Gray Wing stepped from among the ranks of starry 
cats and stopped beside Wind Runner. He turned to 
Moth Flight. “You are more like your mother than you 
imagine,” he told her gently. “It took courage to bring 
her here. And strength. More than you knew you 
had.” He dipped his head. “But it also took something 
even your mother does not share. You are special, 
Moth Flight. You can see what is hidden from ordinary 
cats. You can read signs and understand their 
meaning.” 

Moth Flight glanced at her mother, slumped against 
the rock. Wasn’t Gray Wing going to heal Wind 
Runner? “Don’t waste time!” 

Gray Wing’s gaze didn’t waver. “You must 
understand the importance of this skill.” 

“Any cat can follow a moth.” Impatience prickled 
through Moth Flight’s fur. 

“Few cats would understand which moth will lead 
their Clan to safety,’ Gray Wing told her. 

“I haven't led my Clan anywhere.” Moth Flight’s 
heart began to quicken. She looked for Micah. He 
wasn’t behind her anymore. She glimpsed his pelt 
among the other spirit-cats. “I only brought you Wind 


Runner. You're going to save her, right?” 

“We can’t save this life.” His words echoed from 
the walls, ringing in Moth Flight’s ears. 

She stared at him, feeling sick. “But you have to!” 

Gray Wing stepped back while StarClan moved at 
the edges of the cave, forming a glittering ring around 
the blazing Moonstone. 

Moth Flight’s heart seemed to stop. “Don’t let her 
die!” 

“We can only give her our gift.” Gray Wing leaned 
down and touched his nose to Wind Runner’s head as 
she lay against the rock. “Wind Runner, with this life I 
give you the determination to bring unity to all the 
Clans.” 

Wind Runner suddenly jerked, as though sharp 
teeth had seized her body. She shuddered, her fur 
bushing. 

As Gray Wing stepped away, the WindClan leader 
lifted her head and blinked. She staggered to her paws 
and stood unsteadily, staring at the circle of star- 
flecked cats. 

Moth Flight wanted to race forward and press her 
muzzle to her mother’s cheek, but her paws felt frozen, 


her body too stiff to move. She watched helplessly as 
another cat stepped forward. Moth Flight recognized 
Petal from her first meeting with StarClan. The she- 
cat leaned toward Wind Runner, who blinked at her, 
confused. 

“With this life,’ Petal told her, “may you learn to 
love friendship and loyalty above all things.” She 
touched her nose to Wind Runner’s and Wind Runner 
trembled, her ears flattening. 

“Please don’t hurt her,” Moth Flight called. “She’s 
suffered so much already.” 

Micah’s gaze flashed toward her, soft with 
sympathy. Moth Flight stared at him pleadingly. He 
blinked slowly, as though reassuring her again that 
everything would be fine. 

Wind Runner swayed on her paws as Petal drew 
away. Her eyes sparked with fear as Turtle Tail took 
Petal’s place. She recoiled, tucking her broken leg 
tighter beneath her. 

“Don't be afraid, Wind Runner,” Turtle Tail 
soothed. “We are giving you a gift. A gift for all the 
Clans.” 

Wind Runner straightened, pushing her injured leg 


to the ground. Moth Flight’s paws turned cold as she 
saw her mother grimace, as though gritting her teeth 
against pain. 

Turtle Tail reached her head forward. “With this 
life, I give you stubbornness to keep going in the face 
of future troubles.” 

Wind Runner moaned softly as Turtle Tail touched 
her, the fur lifting along her spine. Moth Flight felt sick. 
She knew her mother was suffering. She tensed as 
Wind Runner tensed and, as Turtle Tail stepped away, 
she felt limp with relief. 

Wind Runner turned her head to stare at the star- 
pelted cats crowding the cave. She blinked as though 
noticing them for the first time. Then her eyes widened 
as a gray tom padded toward her. Her ears twitched. 
“What are you doing here?” There was a snarl in her 
mew. 

Moth Flight tipped her head, curious. Who was this 
strange cat? She hadn’t seen him before. 

The tom dipped his head as he stopped in front of 
Wind Runner. “I know you hate me for leaving you.” 

Wind Runner hissed. “You’re a coward, Branch! 
You abandoned me before I could even hunt properly! 


There’s nothing I want from you!” 

“I didn’t mean to leave you.” 

“Yet you left me all the same!” Wind Runner 
narrowed her eyes. “It was the kindest thing you ever 
did for me. If you hadn’t disappeared, I’d never have 
met Gorse Fur. He’s a better cat than you could ever 
be! He has given me love and loyalty, and kits that I’m 
proud of.” 

Moth Flight frowned. Who was this? Clearly a cat 
her mother had known when she was young. As she 
strained to recall her mother’s stories, Branch spoke. 

“You deserve a cat like Gorse Fur far more than 
you deserved me.” He leaned forward and touched his 
nose to her head. “With this life, I give you the 
confidence to open your heart to other cats. I give you 
trust.” 

Wind Runner jerked again, trembling as his touch 
sent pain searing through her. But Moth Flight didn’t 
flinch. This was like it had been in her dreams. Wind 
Runner must endure it, just as the other cats had and, 
when it was over . . . Moth Flight narrowed her eyes. 
When it was over, then what? 

A familiar pelt moved toward Wind Runner. Willow 


Tail! 

Clear-eyed and strong, Willow Tail stepped 
forward. She carried no signs of her injuries from the 
battle. Chin high, she took Branch’s place. 

Wind Runner met her gaze, her eyes flashing with 
anger. “You lied to me.” 

Willow Tail nodded. “I know. I led my Clanmates 
into battle for no good reason.” As she leaned forward, 
Wind Runner began to duck away. “I’m sorry.” 

Wind Runner paused and met Willow Tail’s touch 
with her nose. 

“With this life,” said Willow Tail, “I give your heart 
the grace to forgive all cats, however weak or wrong 
they may be.” 

Wind Runner hardly flinched. Only her tail-tip 
shivered. 

As Willow Tail stepped away, a kit took her place. 

Moth Flight’s heart swelled with joy as she 
recognized Morning Whisker. 

As the she-kit padded forward, Wind Runner 
blinked. Her eyes clouded. “Morning Whisker?” 
Disbelief edged her mew. 

Morning Whisker purred loudly. “Hi, Wind 


Runner.” 

Wind Runner thrust her muzzle forward to greet 
her, but Morning Whisker backed away. 

“Not yet.” The she-kit gazed at Wind Runner, joy 
shining in her eyes. 

Wind Runner’s tail trembled. “Are you happy? Are 
you well?” 

Morning Whisker glanced fondly toward her starry 
Clanmates. “Yes. Half Moon and Gray Wing have 
taught me how to hunt.” 

“You hunt?” Wind Runner sounded surprised. 

“We hunt, and warm our pelts in sunshine and 
share tongues, just like you.” 

A delighted purr throbbed in Wind Runner’s throat. 
Then she paused. “Is Emberkit with you?” 

Morning Whisker blinked slowly at her mother and 
then, without answering, reached up and touched her 
nose. “With this life, I give you resilience, to keep 
going, whatever troubles life brings.” As she finished, 
Wind Runner’s pelt bushed. She stiffened, her claws 
scraping stone as she braced herself against the pain 
of her kit’s gift. Then her shoulders loosened and 
Morning Whisker backed away into the shadows. 


Emberkit took her place. 

Moth Flight leaned forward, her heart pounding. 
What must it be like to meet a kit you’d never had 
chance to know in life? 

“Emberkit?” Wind Runner’s mew was thick with 
emotion. 

“Hello, Wind Runner.” Emberkit stared at his 
mother with round, star-specked eyes. 

“Tt is so good to see you.” As Wind Runner’s gaze 
flicked over the young tom-kit’s fluffy pelt, Moth Flight 
swallowed back a purr of pleasure. 

“I wish I could have stayed with you longer,” 
Emberkit told his mother softly. “But I’m happy to be 
with StarClan. There are moors for me to play on. One 
day I’Il show them to you.” Before Wind Runner could 
answer, Emberkit reached up and touched his nose to 
her muzzle. “With this life I give you love.” 

This time, Wind Runner did not flinch with pain. 
Her pelt smoothed. Closing her eyes, she swayed 
softly. She grew still as Emberkit drew away, her eyes 
closed as though lost in a dream. 

Half Moon took the tom-kit’s place, waiting 
patiently for Wind Runner to drift back into the 


moment. 

When, at last, Wind Runner opened her eyes, she 
tipped her head as though confused. “Who are you?” 

“Half Moon.” The slender white she-cat’s dark 
green gaze reflected the shimmering Moonstone. 

“Are you Stoneteller?” Wind Runner dipped her 
head. “Gray Wing and Jagged Peak have spoken of 
you often. Moth Flight too. I am honored to meet you.” 

“You are the first,’ Half Moon told her solemnly. 
“May you carry StarClan in your heart always.” 

“The first?” Wind Runner narrowed her eyes. 

Half Moon stretched her muzzle forward and 
touched noses with the WindClan leader. As she did, a 
jolt seemed to race through Wind Runner. 

Moth Flight stiffened as her mother jerked wildly. 
Her paws buckled beneath her and she collapsed to 
the floor. 

“No!” Heart bursting, Moth Flight darted to her 
mother’s side. Wind Runner lay like dead prey on the 
stone, her flanks still No breath stirred the cold air. 
“You killed her!” She glared accusingly at Half Moon. 
“T brought her here to be saved!” 

Half Moon blinked calmly and stepped away. 


“Have faith, Moth Flight.” 

Moth Flight’s mind whirled. Have faith? In what? 
They were meant to stop Wind Runner from dying! 
She stared around the starry cats, appalled at the joy 
lighting their eyes. Didn’t they realize what they’d 
done? 

Why had they brought her here? Had they wanted 
Wind Runner to die? 

Desperate with grief and rage, Moth Flight buried 
her nose in Wind Runner’s pelt. How was she going to 
tell Gorse Fur that his mate had died, far from her Clan 
and the moor? 

Suddenly Wind Runner moved. Moth Flight jerked 
her nose up, shock sparking through every hair. She 
stared as her mother pushed herself lightly to her 
paws. 

Wind Runner lifted her chin and shook the comfrey 
from her hind leg. The once-bloody fur around her 
throat was clean and soft. Her injured paw pressed 
against the stone, as strong as the others. 

Moth Flight shivered, her thoughts spinning. Had 
her mother joined StarClan? She scanned her pelt for 
sparks of starlight, but saw only plain brown fur. “I 


don’t understand.” She stared at Half Moon. 

“Remember your dreams,” the white she-cat told 
her. 

Those cats didnt die! Moth Flight’s fur prickled 
with hope. 

Half Moon dipped her head to Wind Runner. “You 
are the first of the stars that will rise.” 

The prophecy! We will split the sky. And later, 
stars will rise. 

Half Moon went on. “We have given you the gift 
we will give all leaders: the gift of nine lives. From now 
on, you shall be known as Windstar.” 

Joy flooded like starlight beneath Moth Flight’s 
pelt. She remembered her vision of the gray she-cat in 
the ditch. Suddenly it made sense. Wind Runner could 
die eight times and still come back to life. 

Around her, StarClan began to chant, their voices 
echoing around the shimmering walls of the cave. 
“Windstar! Windstar! Windstar!” 





CHAPTER 35 
+ 


“Moth Flight!” Bubbling Stream paced in front of 
her mother, her stumpy tail fluffed with excitement. 
“White Tail says I can go hunting with him and Storm 
Pelt.” 

Moth Flight was lymg in the morning sunshine 
outside her den. She gazed sympathetically at her kit. 
“You're too little.” 

“He says he won't let any buzzards get me,” 
Bubbling Stream argued. 

“Storm Pelt's taking White Tail out to teach him 
hunting techniques,” Moth Flight argued. “How can he 
learn anything if he’s protecting you from buzzards?” 

Bubbling Stream scowled and stomped away. 

Blue Whisker hurried to meet her littermate. “I told 
you she’d say no.” 

Moth Flight flicked her gaze past her kits to the 
sandy clearing below the tall rock. Windstar stood at 
the head, Gorse Fur beside her, while the Clan milled 
around her. She was assigning patrols for the day. The 
bright morning sunshine gleamed on her pelt. As she 


paced, the WindClan leader showed no sign of a limp. 
At her neck, there wasn’t even a scar where the gash 
had been. 

Jagged Peak nosed his way through his Clanmates 
and stopped in front of her. “Can I hunt the moortop 
burrows?” 

Windstar shook her head. “We’ve hunted there too 
much this greenleaf. There’ll be no rabbits left. Take 
Holly to the ShadowClan border and see what’s 
running there.” She nodded toward Dust Muzzle. “T 
want you to train Silver Stripe. She’s fast, but her 
stalking needs work.” 

Silver Stripe pricked her ears. “Can we hunt 
lapwings?” she asked Storm Pelt excitedly. 

Storm Pelt padded toward the young she-cat. 
“Lapwings are hard to catch,” he told her. “Let’s start 
with mice.” 

Black Ear pushed past his sister. “Can you train 
me as well?” 

Windstar cut in. “Spotted Fur can train you.” 

Black Ear lifted his tail happily as Windstar turned 
to Spotted Fur. 

“Show him the borders and the best places to scent 


mark,” she ordered. 

Spotted Fur puffed out his chest proudly as 
Windstar turned to Swift Minnow. 

“You can go to the ShadowClan border with Fern 
Leaf, Jagged Peak, and Holly. Reed Tail”—she 
nodded to the tom—‘take Dew Nose and Eagle 
Feather along the moorside. I saw kestrels hunting 
there yesterday. The prey must be running well.” 

Moth Flight noticed Reed Tail’s gaze flit over 
Windstar anxiously. “Will you be hunting again today?” 

“Of course.” Windstar sounded surprised. She’d 
hunted every day since her return. 

Reed Tail was staring at her healed hind leg. “Are 
you sure you’re strong enough?” 

Windstar rolled her eyes. “How many times must I 
explain? I’m fine now. You’ve even checked my leg. 
Does it look broken?” 

Reed Tail’s ear twitched. “It's just hard to believe 
StarClan has such power.” 

Moth Flight understood his bewilderment. She 
could hardly believe what she’d seen. And yet it was 
true. 

When they had returned from the Moonstone a 


few days ago, reaching camp in the early dawn light, 
Gorse Fur had been waiting at the entrance, his eyes 
widening with shock as Windstar padded toward him. 
He’d run to meet her, circling her in disbelief. 

“StarClan healed you!” he gasped. 

Windstar met his gaze steadily. “They did more 
than that. They gave me this life back, and eight more 
lives to lead WindClan through endless moons.” 

Gorse Fur halted, his pelt rippling along his spine. 
He glanced toward Moth Flight. “Nine lives? How can 
that be?” 

“I'm not sure.” Moth Flight shifted her paws. She 
was still awed by StarClan’s power. “But it’s true. I’ve 
seen it before in my dreams. It’s a gift they will give to 
all leaders.” 

In the days that followed, Moth Flight had traveled 
to each camp, sharing her news with Acorn Fur and 
Clear Sky, Cloud Spots and Thunder, Pebble Heart and 
Tall Shadow, Dappled Pelt and River Ripple. River 
Ripple had seemed the least surprised; Clear Sky the 
most excited. Moth Flight was sure he’d have traveled 
with Acorn Fur by now to receive his nine lives. She 
hoped all the Clan leaders had visited the Moonstone 


by now. She’d find out tonight at the half-moon 
gathering. 

Windstar’s mew jerked her from her thoughts. 
“Honey Pelt, get down!” 

Moth Flight looked up to see the tom-kit scrambling 
onto the ledge halfway up the tall rock. 

Swift Minnow and Reed Tail had leaped from the 
hollow. Reed Tail reached up with his forepaws, 
stretching until he was high enough to pluck Honey 
Pelt from the ledge by his scruff. He placed him on the 
ground. 

Honey Pelt fluffed out his fur grumpily. “I’m not 
allowed to have any fun!” 

Windstar stared at him sternly. “Go and play with 
your littermates.” She nodded toward where Bubbling 
Stream and Blue Whisker were chasing Spider Paw’s 
tail as he darted among the tussocks, whisking it over 
the grass. 

Frowning, Honey Pelt padded toward them. His 
Clanmates streamed past as they raced for the 
entrance, heading for the moor. Above the camp, the 
sky stretched, clear and blue. Heather scent mingled 
with prey scent, rolling into camp on a light breeze. 


Spider Paw halted and stared wistfully after 
Windstar and Gorse Fur as they followed the others 
through the gap in the heather wall. 

Bubbling Stream bounced around him. “Let’s play 
hunting!” She ducked low, pressing her belly against 
the grass. Blue Whisker crouched beside him. Honey 
Pelt scrambled onto a tussock and reached his 
forepaws into the air. “I’m hunting buzzards!” 

“Has a cat ever caught a buzzard?” Blue Whisker 
blinked at Moth Flight. 

Moth Flight padded toward her. “I don’t think so. 
But when Gray Wing used to tell stories of the 
mountains, he said they caught eagles.” 

“Who’s Gray Wing?” Blue Whisker asked. 

Before she could answer, Rocky padded from his 
den. The old tom blinked at her sleepily. “Do you want 
me to watch the kits while you gather herbs?” 

Moth Flight hesitated. Her stores had been low 
since Windstar’s sickness. She ought to restock them. 
But, in the days since she’d returned from the 
Moonstone, she’d felt a desperate need to be near her 
kits. 

Rocky stared at her. “Yesterday, you said you need 


to fetch more catmint,” he reminded her. “You said 
your store was so low—” 

Honey Pelt interrupted. “Can I have a badger 
ride?” He leaped from the tussock and landed on Moth 
Flight’s shoulders. She staggered, struggling to keep 
her balance. 

Rocky padded closer. “I can do badger rides.” 

Bubbling Stream bounded toward him. “Me first!” 

Moth Flight padded forward, Honey Pelt wobbling 
on her back. Her thoughts drifted and unease twisted 
beneath her pelt. Windstar had nearly died. Spider Paw 
had nearly drowned. Torn between the needs of her 
Clan and the needs of her kits, Moth Flight felt herself 
veering between indecision and panic. She wasn’t 
being the best medicine cat she could be. Her medicine 
cat duties threatened her kits’ safety. Her duties as a 
mother threatened the good of her Clan. How could 
she give her full attention to both? 

I’ma medicine cat. 

Half Moon’s words rang in her mind again and 
again. This is your destiny, whether you want it or 
not. You have no choice but to follow it. Every 
Clan s destiny depends on you. 


Rocky gazed at Moth Flight questioningly. “Are 
you going to collect herbs?” 

Moth Flight winced as Honey Pelt dug in his tiny 
claws. “Tomorrow,” she told Rocky. “I want to spend 
today with my kits.” 


Moth Flight followed Pebble Heart through the 
tunnel. Cloud Spots padded behind. The scents of 
Acorn Fur and Dappled Pelt hung in the chilly air. 
“They must be waiting for us,” Moth Flight murmured, 
half to herself. 

Pebble Heart’s tail stirred the air ahead. “It smells 
like they’ ve just passed this way.” 

Cloud Spots’s mew echoed against the damp 
stone. “I hope the clouds clear soon. The moon is 
rising.” 

Fresh scents swirled around Moth Flight’s muzzle 
as the tunnel opened into the cave. In the watery light, 
she could just make out Acorn Fur and Dappled Pelt, 
sitting beside the Moonstone. Dappled Pelt’s face was 
raised toward the hole in the roof. Cloud shielded the 
stars. 

“No moonlight tonight,” Dappled Pelt murmured. 

Cloud Spots padded to the Moonstone and settled 


beside Acorn Fur. “The clouds might still clear.” 

“Not before the moon passes.” Dappled Pelt 
turned to face him. “How will we share with 
StarClan?” 

“Perhaps they don’t want to share tonight,” Acorn 
Fur sniffed. “That’s why they sent clouds.” 

Moth Flight padded across the cold stone and sat 
down a little way from the others. Her heart felt heavy, 
her paws weary. She’d spent the whole journey 
praying that the sky would clear. She needed to share 
with StarClan. Half Moon, help me. Grief tugged at 
her belly. 

Pebble Heart padded to her side and sat down. 
“StarClan has shared enough this moon.” 

Acorn Fur tipped her ears toward him. “Did they 
give Tall Shadow nine lives?” 

Pebble Heart nodded. “She’s Shadowstar now.” 

Dappled Pelt’s tail swished over the rock. “River 
Ripple is Riverstar.” 

“Thunder is Thunderstar,” Cloud Spots told them. 
He glanced at Acorn Fur. “What name did they give 
Clear Sky?” 

“Skystar.” Acorn Fur’s tail swished over the stone. 


“I was so scared when I saw how much pain each life 
caused.” 

“I don’t know how Riverstar stayed on his paws,” 
Dappled Pelt admitted. 

Moth Flight gazed blankly at the Moonstone, only 
half-listening. She wanted to reach out and touch the 
dark stone. Perhaps StarClan would share even 
without moonlight. 

“Did they really heal Windstar’s leg?” 

Moth Flight suddenly realized Cloud Spots was 
speaking to her. 

She shook out her pelt, trying to focus. “It’s like it 
was never broken.” 

“I wish I could bring Sun Shadow here,” Pebble 
Heart commented sadly. 

Moth Flight jerked her muzzle toward him. “Is Sun 
Shadow sick?” 

“He’s had redcough,” Pebble Heart told her. “He’s 
over the worst of it, but he’s taking a while to get his 
strength back.” 

Dappled Pelt leaned forward. “Do you think the 
Moonstone heals any cat?” 

Moth Flight stared at the rock, surprised how dull it 


was without moonlight. “The Moonstone doesn’t do 
anything except let us share with StarClan. It’s 
StarClan that heals.” 

Acorn Fur dipped her head. “Then let’s pray they 
heal Sun Shadow.” 

Cloud Spots and Dappled Pelt murmured in 
agreement. 

Pebble Heart glanced at Moth Flight. “How is the 
rest of your Clan? Have they recovered from their 
battle injuries?” 

“Storm Pelt’s ear tip will always be torn,’ Moth 
Flight told him. “But I think he’s secretly proud of his 
scars.” 

Acorn Fur snorted. “Red Claw’s the same! He 
asked me not to treat the scratch on his muzzle. I told 
him not to be silly. What if it got infected?” She purred 
suddenly, her eyes glistening with affection. “I didn’t 
realize Red Claw was such a kind cat. He’s changed 
since the battle. I think making peace with Willow Tail 
has softened him.” 

A teasing glint flashed in Dappled Pelt’s gaze. 
“You sound like you’re in love.” 

Acorn Fur looked away shyly. “We have been 


getting close,” she admitted. “We’ve even talked about 
sharing a nest.” 

Cloud Spots purred. “It looks like Moth Flight 
won’t be the only medicine cat with kits.” 

“No!” Moth Flight stiffened, surprised at the 
harshness of her mew. 

Pebble Heart blinked at her. Dappled Pelt and 
Cloud Spots narrowed their eyes. 

“What’s wrong?” Acorn Fur tipped her head 
uneasily. 

Moth Flight’s throat tightened. Grief swelled in her 
chest. 

“Are you worried Pl lose him like you lost 
Micah?” Acorn Fur pressed. “You were unlucky. Not 
all relationships end like that. I mean, I’m sorry yours 
did, but it doesn’t mean Red Claw will” 

Moth Flight glared at her. “You dont 
understand!’ The walls echoed the sharpness of her 
voice. The fear and uncertainty that had nagged at her 
since Windstar had been hurt hit her like an icy blast of 
wind. She gripped the stone with her claws, bracing 
herself against the emotion sweeping over her. “No 
medicine cat should have kits! They shouldn’t even 


take a mate!” 

Acorn Fur stared at her. “But you did!” 

Moth Flight’s mouth dried as she gazed back at the 
SkyClan cat. “I was wrong.” Her mew cracked. 

“What do you mean?” Pebble Heart’s eyes 
rounded with worry. 

“I can't be a mother and a medicine cat,” Moth 
Flight sobbed. “Spider Paw nearly drowned. I pulled 
him from the river. He wasn’t breathing.” She stared 
at the others wildly. “I was so scared, I didn’t know 
what to do! A medicine cat can’t be like that!” 

“But you saved him,” Pebble Heart pointed out. 

“Micah saved him!” Moth Flight confessed. “He 
spoke to me and told me what to do. I was frozen with 
terror! If Micah hadn’t told me what to do, I would 
have watched my kit die.” Her flanks heaved as her 
breathing quickened. She felt Pebble Heart's tail 
smoothing her spiked fur, but she went on. “I spend 
half my time terrified that my kits might die while I’m 
looking after my Clan, and the other half terrified a 
Clanmate might die while I’m looking after my kits. 
StarClan sent me a sign that let me save Windstar. But 
what if they’d sent it earlier, while I was rescuing 


Spider Paw? I would have missed it! Windstar could 
be dead. And we’d have never discovered that leaders 
should have nine lives.” 

Cloud Spots lifted his chin. “StarClan would have 
sent another sign! They’d have made sure you saw it.” 

“You don’t know that! We can’t risk it!” Moth 
Flight’s eyes grew hot as she glared at Acorn Fur. 
“You can’t have kits with Red Claw. You mustn’t even 
share his nest. You must live only for your Clan. It’s 
the only way to stay strong.” 

Acorn Fur’s eyes flashed angrily in the darkness. 
“That’s easy for you to say. You’ve had a mate. 
You’ve got kits!” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws, the stone walls 
pressing in around her. “I can’t do it anymore!” 

Pebble Heart stiffened beside her. “Are you going 
to stop being a medicine cat?” 

“No.” Moth Flight gasped as sorrow plunged 
thorn-sharp claws deep into her heart. “Being a 
medicine cat is my destiny. It’s what I was always 
supposed to be. The Clans depend on me. Half Moon 
told me.” 

Pebble Heart’s eyes glowed darkly in the half-light. 


“What are you going to do?” 

The earth seemed to tremble beneath Moth Flight’s 
paws. The pain she’d felt at Micah’s death seemed to 
open in her chest, pouring out grief sharper than any 
she could imagine. “I’m going to give up my kits.” 





CHAPTER 36 
+ 


“The oaks are so big!” Honey Pelt's breathless mew 
echoed across the shadowy Fourtrees clearing. He 
gazed up through the branches. The sky was turning 
purple as the sun sank below the distant horizon. Stars 
began to show, glimmering among the leaves. 

Blue Whisker huddled closer to Moth Flight. “Can 
we go home now?” 

Moth Flight’s throat tightened. Words dried on her 
tongue. She couldn’t answer. Instead she called to 
Spider Paw, who was scrambling over an ancient oak 
root. “Stay close.” 

He glanced over his shoulder. “But I want to 
explore.” 

Honey Pelt marched toward his brother, Bubbling 
Stream at his heels. “Moth Flight said to come back!” 

Blue Whisker started to shiver. “I’m cold.” 

“Tt won’t be long now.” Moth Flight scanned the 
slopes of the Fourtrees hollow. Were they coming? 

Pebble Heart, Dappled Pelt, Acorn Fur, and Cloud 
Spots had arranged everything. They’d spoken to their 


leaders and brought news that each Clan would accept 
one of Moth Flight’s kits. 

“Are you sure that you don’t want them to stay 
together?” Acorn Fur had asked when she’d visited 
the WindClan camp the day before. 

“No.” Moth Flight had been certain. “I want one 
kit to go to each Clan.” She hadn’t explained more. 
She knew she was doing the right thing. 

“But if they stay together, they'll be able to look 
after each other,” Acorn Fur had reasoned. 

“T’m sure their new Clans will look after them well 
enough.” Moth Flight hadn’t met Acorn Fur’s gaze. It 
was hard enough to stop her mew from trembling. 

Acorn Fur didn’t press her. “Clear Sky and Star 
Flower are thrilled to be taking Honey Pelt. They still 
miss Tiny Branch, and Honey Pelt will be a comfort to 
them.” 

“Moth Flight?” Blue Whisker’s mew jerked her 
back to the moment. The she-kit was gazing through 
the branches. Her white-and-yellow pelt glowed in the 
dusky light. “Is that where StarClan lives? In the sky?” 

“A new star is born each time a cat dies,’ Moth 
Flight explained. 


“Which one’s Micah?” Blue Whisker narrowed 
her eyes, straining to see through the leaves. 

“T’m not sure.” Moth Flight’s mew thickened. “But 
he’s up there watching you.” 

“Really?” Blue Whisker blinked at her hopefully. 

Moth Flight touched her muzzle to the yellow-and- 
white kit’s head. “Really,” she promised. 

“Get out of the way!” Bubbling Stream’s cross 
mew rang across the clearing. She was trying to pull 
herself onto the gnarled oak root beside her brothers. 

Moth Flight gazed at them desperately. They were 
so small, their pelts like pale thistledown against the 
bark. “Come here,” she called. “I need to speak to 
you.” 

Honey Pelt leaped from the root and charged 
toward her. He must have heard the fear in her mew. 
“What’s wrong?” 

Spider Paw raced after him. “Are we going home 
now?” 

Bubbling Stream dropped to the ground and hurried 
behind them. “Why did you bring us here?” 

Moth Flight nosed Blue Whisker away from her 
flank. “Stand beside your littermates.” She gazed at 


her kits as they lined up in front of her, their eyes wide 
with excitement. “I have to tell you something 
important.” 

One day you will gather the scattered petals of 
the Blazing Star, but not yet. Micah’s words burned 
in her mind. She remembered the stories her mother 
used to tell of the Blazing Star prophecy, which had 
separated the cats into Clans. 

You will gather the scattered petals. 

She was destined to bring the Clans together, one 
flower made of five petals, just like the Blazing Star 
flower. 

But not yet. 

She would bring the petals together, but first, she 
must scatter them. Her bloodline must flow into each 
Clan. 

She blinked solemnly at her kits. “The leaders of 
the Clans are coming here tonight.” 

“Why?” Spider Paw pricked his ears. 

Blue Whisker shrank back. “Do we have to meet 
them?” 

Moth Flight didn’t answer. She forced herself to go 
on. “They are coming here to meet you. They want 


you to go live with them, as part of their Clans. Each 
of you will go to a different Clan.” 

Bubbling Stream stuck out her muzzle. “I’m not 
going anywhere.” 

Moth Flight steadied her breath. “You will be well 
cared for and your new Clan will be your home from 
now on.” 

Blue Whisker’s eyes clouded with terror. “I don’t 
want to go.” 

“Are you giving us away?” Spider Paw looked 
confused. 

Bubbling Stream frowned. “Did we do something 
wrong?” 

“No!” Moth Flight’s heart seemed to crack. She 
began to tremble. “I love you so much. But it has to be 
this way.” 

Honey Pelt’s gaze grew hard. “No it doesn’t. You 
want it this way.” 

Moth Flight swallowed. “Yes,” she admitted softly. 
“But not because I don’t want you—it’s because you 
are special.” 

Spider Paw growled. “So special you have to get 
rid of us!” 


Micah, help me! Moth Flight glanced up 
desperately. Why do I have to do this alone? She 
straightened, determined to be strong. “Your father 
spoke to me,” she began. “He told me that one day I 
would gather the scattered petals of the Blazing Star.” 

“What’s that got to do with us?” Spider Paw 
demanded angrily. 

“You are the petals,” Moth Flight told him. “Long 
before you were born, the spirit-cats came into this 
clearmg—” 

“Spirit-cats?” Bubbling Stream looked anxiously 
over her shoulder. 

“Are they with us now?” Blue Whisker blinked 
into the shadows. 

“We’re alone,” Moth Flight soothed. “But they 
used to come here. Before I found the Moonstone. 
Before the Clans existed. It was the spirit-cats who 
told us to split into five Clans, like the petals of the 
Blazing Star flower. The cats had grown jealous. They 
all wanted land. They fought over who owned the 
forest and the moor. Many died. So we divided the 
land fairly among us and became the Clans.” 

“But the Clans still fight each other,” Spider Paw 


pointed out. “That's how Windstar got hurt.” 

Moth Flight nodded. “That is why you must each 
join a Clan. You are littermates. Your bond is strong. 
One day, when you are grown up, that bond will make 
the Clans into one family once more. You are the 
petals of the Blazing Star.” 

Honey Pelt narrowed his eyes thoughtfully. “So we 
won't fight anymore?” 

“Exactly.” Pride warmed Moth Flight’s pelt. 

Bubbling Stream looked unconvinced. “Why do we 
have to join new Clans? Why can’t Storm Pelt and 
Eagle Feather and Dew Nose?” 

Spider Paw glanced at his sister. “Because we’re 
special.” 

Blue Whisker stared at Moth Flight. “I don’t want 
to be special.” 

Moth Flight hesitated. Her mind whirled back to 
the moor, all those moons ago. She remembered her 
father’s words. Dust Muzzle will make a fine hunter 
one day, but Moth Flight is special. How little she’d 
understood. She thrust her muzzle close to Blue 
Whisker, her heart twisting. “I need you to be brave, 
little one. I’m asking you to do something very hard. I 


know you're scared. But you will be safe. 
ThunderClan cats are kind. You'll love the forest. It’s 
full of beautiful plants, and it’s warmer than the moor. 
The wind whispers high in the trees so you'll never 
feel lonely. And the Clan will raise you as its own.” 

“But I want you to raise me.” Blue Whisker’s 
breath warmed Moth Flight’s cheek. The pain in her 
heart was almost too much to bear, but she forced 
herself not to tremble. 

Honey Pelt nosed between them. “Come on, Blue 
Whisker. It'Il be exciting. You'll see Moth Flight at 
Gatherings and the rest of us won’t be far away.” He 
looked at Moth Flight. “Which Clan will I go to?” 

“SkyClan,” Moth Flight told him. 

“You see?” Honey Pelt blinked at Blue Whisker. 
“TPI be living in the same forest as you, and Bubbling 
Stream or Spider Paw will be in RiverClan.” 

“Spider Paw is going to live with RiverClan,” Moth 
Flight told him. 

Spider Paw’s eyes widened with horror. “PI have 
to eat fish. And swim!” 

Honey Pelt nudged him. “At least next time you 
fall in the river, you won’t half drown.” 


Spider Paw tipped his head thoughtfully. 

Moth Flight was still watching Blue Whisker. She 
had guessed that her shyest kit would take it hardest. 
But Blue Whisker’s eyes were sparkling with curiosity. 
“Do ThunderClan cats climb trees?” 

“T don’t know,” Moth Flight confessed. 

Blue Whisker’s gaze drifted upward. “I’ve always 
wondered what it’s like to look down on everything, 
like a bird.” 

Honey Pelt flicked his tail encouragingly. “I bet 
Thunderstar’s always climbing trees. It’s probably the 
first thing he’ Il teach you.” 

Bubbling Stream was staring up the slope, where 
darkness swallowed the forest. “Pl be going to 
ShadowClan.” She sounded uncertain. 

Moth Flight’s thoughts flicked back to the moon 
she’d spent there. “It’s peaceful in the pine forest. And 
Juniper Branch’s kits are only two moons older than 
you. You’ll have someone to play with.” 

“You'll have to eat frogs,’ Spider Paw snorted. 
“That’s even worse than fish!” 

Bubbling Stream ignored him. “Are ShadowClan 
kits allowed out of camp?” 


“They’re probably allowed to roam anywhere they 
like,’ Honey Pelt told her. “Buzzards can’t hunt in 
forests.” 

Moth Flight blinked at him gratefully. He sounded 
so much like his father: so optimistic and ready to take 
on any challenge. She purred. “I will miss you all so 
much.” 

Blue Whisker brushed her muzzle along Moth 
Flight’s jaw. Spider Paw weaved around her legs. 

Bubbling Stream clambered onto her back. “One 
last badger ride!” 

Moth Flight began to lumber heavily across the 
clearing, making Bubbling Stream sway on her 
shoulders until the kit mewled with delight. 

Honey Pelt trotted beside her. “Skystar is the 
bravest leader, isn’t he?” 

Moth Flight glanced at him, trying not to imagine 
what sort of guardian Skystar would be. “He’s the 
most confident,” she conceded. 

Honey Pelt whisked his tail. “I wonder what forest 
prey tastes like.” 

“Better than fish,’ Spider Paw muttered. 

“Fish tastes great.” Moth Flight halted and blinked 


at him. “You'll love it.” 

“Moth Flight.” Blue Whisker’s anxious mew made 
her stiffen. The kit was staring at the far slope. 

Moth Flight followed her gaze. The bracken stirred 
as a shape moved through it. She shook Bubbling 
Stream from her shoulders, opening her mouth and 
tasting the familiar scent of RiverClan. 

The stems swished as Riverstar padded into the 
clearing. 

Spider Paw pressed against her. “I don’t want to 


33 


go. 

“It will be all right.” Moth Flight lifted her chin to 
greet the RiverClan leader. “Thank you for coming.” 

Riverstar dipped his head. “I am honored that you 
trust RiverClan to care for one of your kits.” 

As he spoke, paw steps thrummed the slope 
behind. Moth Flight looked up as Thunderstar bounded 
into the clearing. 

He scrambled to a halt beside Riverstar. “Hi.” His 
gaze swept the kits, glowing with surprise. “They look 
so much like Micah!” 

Before Moth Flight could answer, more paw steps 
sounded as Shadowstar followed Skystar into the 


clearing. 

Blue Whisker ducked beneath Moth Flight’s belly. 
Bubbling Stream backed away. 

“This must be very hard for you all.” Shadowstar 
stopped in front of Moth Flight, her gaze solemn. 

Honey Pelt stepped forward, meeting her gaze. 
“We’re not scared.” 

Skystar purred. “I can’t imagine any kit of Micah’s 
being scared.” 

Bubbling Stream tipped her head. Blue Whisker 
crept from beneath Moth Flight. Spider Paw lifted his 
muzzle. 

Thunderstar blinked at them. “Which one is Blue 
Whisker?” 

“I am.” Blue Whisker’s mew was hardly more 
than a whisper. She padded slowly forward and 
stopped in front of the ThunderClan leader. Moth Flight 
could see her trying not to tremble. 

“Violet Dawn has made you a nest,” Thunderstar 
told her. 

“Pve never slept by myself” Blue Whisker 
whispered. 

“Then you can share a nest with Milkweed’s kits.” 


Thunderstar’s mew was gentle. “They’re not much 
older than you. Although Milkweed says they fidget 
like rabbits in a burrow.” 

“Bubbling Spring fidgets too,’ Blue Whisker 
murmured. “So I won’t mind.” 

Thunderstar pointed his nose toward the forest. 
“Are you ready to leave?” 

Blue Whisker glanced back at Moth Flight, her 
eyes glistening. “Can I stay with you, please?” 

Moth Flight hurried forward and pressed her nose 
into the kit’s soft fur. Blue Whisker’s warm scent filled 
her nose. She fought the urge to scoop her close and 
never kt go. “You must go,” she croaked. 
“ThunderClan needs you.” 

Blue Whisker turned away, her tail down, and 
began to follow Thunderstar from the clearing. 

Bubbling Stream padded toward Shadowstar. “I’m 
supposed to come with you.” 

Shadowstar blinked at her. “You must be Bubbling 
Stream.” 

“Pm not eating frogs,” Bubbling Stream told her 
bluntly. 

Shadowstar’s eyes flashed with surprise. “Okay.” 


Bubbling Stream glanced at Moth Flight. “Will you 
come and visit?” 

“Of course!” Moth Flight hurried forward and 
pressed her muzzle against Bubbling Stream’s. 

Bubbling Stream drew away and stared at Moth 
Flight. Anxiety darkened the kit’s eyes, but she blinked 
it away. “See you soon then.” She padded toward the 
slope. 

Shadowstar nodded to Moth Flight. “We’ll take 
care of her like she’s one of our own.” 

Moth Flight dipped her head, unable to speak. Blue 
Whisker and Thunderstar had vanished over the top of 
the slope as Shadowstar turned away. At the edge of 
the clearing, Bubbling Stream nosed her way into the 
bracken. 

Riverstar glanced from Honey Pelt to Spider Paw. 
“Which one comes with me?” His friendly mew was 
brisk. 

Honey Pelt glanced at his brother. Spider Paw was 
staring at the RiverClan leader as though Riverstar 
were a hawk circling prey. 

Riverstar swished his tail enticingly. “The cats of 
RiverClan are looking forward to meeting their new 


Clanmate.” 

Spider Paw edged forward. “I’m coming with 
you,” he murmured. 

Riverstar blinked at him. “You look like you’ Il make 
a good swimmer. You have broad shoulders and wide 
paws.” He nodded toward Spider Paw’s extra claw. 
“Fish are slippery. That claw will make them easier to 
catch.” 

Spider Paw glanced down. “I nearly drowned 
once.” 

Riverstar snorted. “That’s because you didn’t have 
the right swimming coach.” He began to head toward 
the slope. “I haven’t lost an apprentice yet. You’re in 
safe paws.” 

Spider Paw blinked at Moth Flight. “Do I really 
have to go?” 

Moth Flight leaned forward, pressing her muzzle 
against his head. “It's your destiny,” she whispered. 
“Don't be afraid. StarClan is watching over you.” 

“I want to be your kit, not RiverClan's,” Spider 
Paw whispered. 

Moth Flight met his gaze. “You'll always be my 
kit.” The words caught in her throat and she looked 


away as her gaze clouded. 

When she looked back, Spider Paw was hurrying 
after Riverstar. 

Skystar padded forward. He dipped his head to 
Honey Pelt. “Are you ready to join SkyClan?” 

“Yes.” Honey Pelt lifted his chin. 

Skystar glanced at Moth Flight. “Are you ready?” 
Compassion filled his gaze. 

Moth Flight reached for words, but could only stare 
back, her heart breaking. 

Honey Pelt touched his nose to her cheek. “I know 
you have no choice,’ he whispered. “If this is 
StarClan’s wish, then I’m happy to go.” 

“Your father will be as proud of you as I am,” 
Moth Flight croaked. 

“Don't be sad.” Honey Pelt pressed his muzzle 
deeper. “We’ll be fine.” 

As he drew away, Moth Flight felt cold air touch 
the fur his breath had warmed. 

She watched numbly as Honey Pelt padded after 
Skystar. “Good-bye,” she murmured under her breath. 

You’ve done the right thing. Micah’s mew 
touched her ear fur, as light as the evening breeze. 


“Have I?” she whispered. 

“You have changed the destiny of the Clans.” 
Micah’s voice was clear now. She wondered if Skystar 
and Honey Pelt could hear it as they climbed the slope 
toward the forest. But neither cat looked back. 

Micah went on. “You were always braver and 
smarter than you thought. It’s one of the reasons I 
loved you, and why I still miss you. But you have so 
much left to do. Making decisions is easy; living with 
them is the true test of courage. Only by being true to 
yourself and becoming the medicine cat you dream of 
will you learn how truly special you are.” 

Moth Flight looked up, staring past the branches to 
the sky beyond. The stars flashed like flecks of 
sunlight on rippling water, brighter than she’d ever seen 
them and too many to count. 

“T will do my best,” she promised. “I will always do 
my best.” 





CHAPTER 37 
+ 


Moth Flight fluffed out her fur against the chilly air 
of the Moonstone cavern and looked up. Stars glittered 
beyond the hole in the roof. Moonlight spilled over the 
rim. As she waited for it to reach the Moonstone, she 
listened to the other medicine cats talk. 

“I'm glad the clouds cleared in time,” Pebble Heart 
mewed. 

“Clouds never last long when it’s this breezy,” 
Dappled Pelt answered. “The wind has been tugging at 
my whiskers all day.” 

“It brought down the first fall of leaves in the 
forest,” Cloud Spots told them. 

Acorn Fur shivered. “I’m not ready for leafbare.” 

“That’s a few moons away yet,’ Pebble Heart 
reassured her. 

Moth Flight’s thoughts drifted from their idle 
chatter, her mind sifting through everything they’d told 
her on the journey here. In the moon since she’d given 
Honey Pelt, Bubbling Stream, Blue Whisker, and 
Spider Paw away, her heart had felt like a heavy, 


cracked stone in her chest. She’d curled into her 
empty nest each night, feeling their absence in the cold 
moss around her, and each morning she’d awoken 
expecting to feel their soft pelts nestling against her but 
feeling nothing but the twitching of her own paws. 

“How is Blue Whisker?” she’d asked Cloud Spots 
as she met him at the WindClan border. 

Cloud Spots had told her that Blue Whisker was 
eating well and had made friends already with 
Milkweed’s kits. “She and Shivering Rose are 
inseparable.” 

Acorn Fur had purred as she told Moth Flight that 
Honey Pelt was following Skystar around camp, asking 
endless questions. “Skystar enjoys it,” the chestnut 
she-cat had reassured her. “His eyes light up 
whenever Honey Pelt darts in front of him, begging to 
know something new. He seems impressed by Honey 
Pelt’s eagerness to learn.” 

“How’s Bubbling Stream?” Moth Flight had asked 
Pebble Heart as they’d crossed a dusky meadow. 

“She’s leading Dangling Leaf, Dusk Nose, and 
Shade Pelt on expeditions outside camp.” 

Moth Flight’s belly had tightened with worry. “Are 


they safe in the forest by themselves?” 

“Someone always tracks them,” Pebble Heart had 
promised her. “Mouse Ear followed them through a 
nettle patch yesterday. They all came home with stung 
noses and pads.” 

Moth Flight’s heart had quickened with alarm. “Is 
Bubbling Stream all right?” 

“I had plenty of fresh dock in my store,” Pebble 
Heart had told her gently. “Besides, every kit gets 
stung eventually. Mouse Ear should have known better 
than to walk through a nettle patch, but he said he 
didn’t want to let them out of his sight.” 

Moth Flight had felt reassured and hurried to catch 
up with Dappled Pelt. “Is Spider Paw settling into 
RiverClan?” 

“He can swim already.” There had been a hint of 
pride in Dappled Pelt’s mew. 

“Not by himself, surely?” Alarm flashed through 
Moth Flight’s pelt. 

“Kits never swim by themselves,” Dappled Pelt 
promised her. “Not until they’re strong enough to ride 
the currents.” 

Moth Flight’s thoughts had flashed back to her 


“swim” with Spider Paw. She’d felt helpless against 
the buffeting of the water. She couldn’t imagine Spider 
Paw ever being strong enough to survive it. 

“He’ll be swimming like a fish before long.” 
Dappled Pelt must have guessed Moth Flight’s anxiety. 
“It’s just like running through a gale.” She’d glanced 
sideways. “You’ve never been knocked off your paws 
by the wind, have you?” 

“No.” Moth Flight had been unconvinced. But she 
had to trust RiverClan. 

Dappled Pelt gently changed the subject. “Drizzle 
and Pine Needle think Spider Paw’s great. He’s been 
teaching them how to play moss-ball. He’s a great 
jumper. Drizzle can never get the moss past him.” 

Moth Flight pictured Spider Paw now, as she gazed 
at the Moonstone. She could imagine him charging 
around the RiverClan camp as he’d done in the hollow. 
Her heart ached. Did her kits miss her? They sounded 
happy in their new homes. Happier than with me? 
Guilt pricked her paws. She wanted them to be happy, 
and yet she hoped they still kept a place for her in their 
hearts. 

Acorn Fur’s mew cut into her thoughts. “I wonder 


if StarClan has anything important to share with us.” 

Moth Flight shifted her paws uneasily. Had they 
known she would give her kits away? Had she done 
the right thing? Guilt hollowed her belly. 

The Moonstone flared. Moth Flight flinched, slitting 
her eyes as light blanched the cave. Countless stars 
seemed to blaze before her face. Leaning forward, she 
touched her nose to the glittering stone. 

The floor shifted beneath her paws. Her heart 
lurched as she felt herself swept sideways, whirling 
dizzyingly until suddenly she felt soft pasture beneath 
her paws. She opened her eyes into the half-light of 
evening. Pebble Heart, Dappled Pelt, Cloud Spots, and 
Acorn Fur stood nearby, blinking at the rolling 
meadows and distant forest. They were in StarClan’s 
hunting grounds, on the breeze-blown hilltop, grass 
rippling around their paws. 

Above them, a purple sky deepened to black as it 
stretched toward the distant horizon. She gazed at it, 
the stars blurring as she stared at them. They began to 
swirl like a flock of shimmering birds, spmning toward 
the ground. 

Pebble Heart lifted his chin, his eyes wide in 


wonder. Dappled Pelt’s fur pricked along her spine. 
Acorn Fur backed away as the stars circled closer. 
Moth Flight narrowed her eyes against the brightness 
as the grass sparkled and the stars slowed, coming to 
rest on the hilltop around them. 

Blinking, she saw the light fade until she could 
make out the shapes of the StarClan cats. 

Half Moon stepped from among them, her white 
pelt glistening. She stopped in front of Moth Flight and 
dipped her head. 

Moth Flight tensed, trying to glimpse the expression 
in the StarClan cat's dark green gaze. I scattered the 
petals of the Blazing Star, just as Micah told me. 
She knew what she wanted to say. She had given 
away her kits and she wanted to tell StarClan that it 
was the only thing she could have done. But the words 
she’d planned stalled on her tongue. “I had to!” she 
blurted as Half Moon met her gaze. 

“We know.” Half Moon stared at her steadily. 
“You made the right choice.” 

Moth Flight glanced beyond the white she-cat, 
hoping to glimpse Micah. He’d given his blessing to 
sending their kits to new homes, but she wanted to see 


him—she needed to read his gaze and truly know that 
he understood. 

Before she could spot him, Half Moon spoke 
again. “Your greatest loyalty must always be to 
StarClan and your Clanmates.” Her gaze flicked to 
Acorn Fur. “The only way to ensure this is for you all 
to promise never to take mates or have kits.” 

Acorn Fur’s eyes flashed indignantly. “That's not 
fair! I can be loyal to you, and my Clanmates, and a 
mate and kits!” 

Half Moon didn’t answer. 

“I can!” Acorn Fur insisted. 

A starry she-cat padded forward. Snow-white fur 
flecked her gray muzzle. “How do you know what it is 
like to be a mother?” she challenged Acorn Fur, her 
eyes flashing. 

Acorn Fur snorted. “I’ve seen Star Flower with 
her kits. It’s not hard!” 

The old she-cat’s tail twitched crossly. “I am Quiet 
Rain, mother of Gray Wing, Clear Sky, and Jagged 
Peak. I stayed behind in the mountains when they left 
the Tribe. But my heart cried out for them every day 
they were gone.” 


Moth Flight shivered. Will grief torture me 
forever? 

Quiet Rain went on. “My need was so strong that I 
spent my final days crossing unknown lands to see 
them. Only when I was sure they were safe in their 
new home could I give in to the sickness that made 
every step heavy with pain.” 

Acorn Fur stared at her. “I’m not you! My kits will 
stay near me. I won’t have to worry about them!” 

Quiet Rain gave a hollow purr. “Do you really 
believe that you’ll be able to ignore their cries to treat 
an injured Clanmate?” She swung her head toward 
Moth Flight accusingly. “Haven’t you warned this 
foolish cat?” 

“She’s not foolish!” Moth Flight stepped closer to 
Acorn Fur. “J thought I could be a mother and 
medicine cat too. I had to experience it before I 
realized how impossible it was to give my heart twice 
over.” She blinked at Acorn Fur. “You must make your 
choice now, before you have kits. You mustn’t ever 
face the choice I faced. It will break your heart.” Her 
eyes prickled with sadness. “Choose now. Either care 
for your Clan, or take a mate. You can’t do both.” 


Pebble Heart swished his tail. “What about us?” 
He nodded toward Cloud Spots. “We can’t be 
mothers.” 

Half Moon tipped her head. “But you can be 
fathers. Do you think a father loves his kits any less?” 

Gray Wing slid from among his Clanmates. 
“Pebble Heart,’ he meowed gently. “Each medicine 
cat must make the same choice. Live like an ordinary 
Clan cat and take a mate. Raise a family if you like. 
But if you do, renounce your medicine-cat duties.” 

Half Moon’s gaze flitted around the medicine cats. 
“We brought you closer to us than any of your 
Clanmates. One day your Clan may depend on what 
we share with you. We need to know you hear us. If 
you don’t, who will suffer?” 

Pebble Heart’s eyes darkened. “Our Clan.” 

Half Moon nodded. “Then choose.” 

Pebble Heart shifted his paws, his gaze lingering 
on Half Moon’s for a moment. Then he spoke. “My 
greatest loyalty will always be with StarClan and my 
Clanmates.” 

Half Moon’s ear twitched. “Do you agree you will 
never take a mate or have kits?” 


Pebble Heart nodded. 

Half Moon’s gaze flicked to Cloud Spots 
questioningly. 

The ThunderClan medicine cat dipped his head. 
“Me too.” 

“And me.” Dappled Pelt gazed solemnly at Half 
Moon. 

Quiet Rain was still staring at Acorn Fur. “And 
you? Have you decided which you will choose?” 

Acorn Fur glanced around anxiously. She caught 
Moth Flight’s eye hopefully, as though hoping for 
advice. 

Moth Flight lowered her gaze. “You must decide 
for yourself.” 

Acorn Fur shifted beside her. “Okay,” she mewed. 
“If I must choose, I choose StarClan.” 

Quiet Rain narrowed her eyes sharply. “Are you 
certam?” 

Acorn Fur lifted her chin. “I’m certain.” 

Relief washed Moth Flight’s pelt. She knew how 
hard Acorn Fur’s decision must have been. She 
thought, with a rush of love, of her first moon with 
Micah. The memory still warmed her. She couldn’t 


imagine her life, never having known such love. Or 
worse, having known it but knowing she must refuse it. 

Softly, she pressed against Acorn Fur. “Tending to 
your Clan will give you all the joy and warmth and love 
that you need,” she murmured, hoping it was true. 
“Give your heart to them.” She blinked at Half Moon. 
“Tt must always be this way.” 

Half Moon nodded. “In the future, medicine cats 
may never take a mate. They must never have kits.” 

Gray Wing swished his tail. “Their loyalty will rest 
only with StarClan and their Clanmates.” 

Around them, StarClan murmured with approval, 
their mews echoing beneath the starless sky. 

Watching them, Moth Flight caught sight of Micah 
at last. His gaze was fixed on her, brimming with 
affection. 

She returned it, her heart twisting with sorrow. /’m 
sorry, my love. But while I live, I must give you up. 
She had sent her kits away so she could be the best 
medicine cat she could be. She couldn’t share her 
dreams with Micah any more. Her dreams belonged to 
StarClan now. Every hair in her pelt, every beat of her 
heart, every breath belonged to them. 


ee THE PAGE FOR AN 
, MANGA ADVENTURE 








CREATED BY 
ERIN HUNTER 


WRITTEN BY 
DAN JOLLEY 


ART BY 
JAMES L. BARRY 


HERE, NOW. 
THAT OUGHT TO 
FEEL BETTER. 


A RIVERCLAN CAT WOULD KNOW 
BETTER THAN TO PLAY ON KE, 
DRIZZLE. 
BUT...FLOWER STREAM 
WAS ALREADY OUT THERE, 
AND IT LOOKED LIKE 


YOU'RE TOO OLD TO SAGER 


BE ACTING LIKE A KIT! 
WOULDN'T YOU SAY SO, 


BLACK BAR? OM, TM STAYING 


OUT OF THIS ONE. 


MY NAME IS 
MOTH FLIGHT. I'M A HEALER-- 
A MEDICINE CAT. 


I HAVE BEEN HELPING 
MY FELLOW CATS FOR... 
A LONG TIME. MANY, 


IT'S...IT 16 BETTER, 
MOTH FLIGHT. 


AV 





MOTH FLIGHT, I MEANT TO 
ASK YOU BEFORE--WHY DIDN'T 
YOU COME TO THE GATHERING 


( 4 
Y A, 
SHE'S...A BIT x y 
THE NEXT STEP IS TO NY 
STRIP THE LEAVES OFF. ANXIOUS ABOUT HER d AA 
KITTING. A) > 
O S 


THAT REMINDS ME-- OH, SHE WAS THERE, 
WAS BLUE WHISKER AT ALL RIGHT. 
THE GATHERING? SHE'S AS FAT AS A BADGER 
NOW, BUT YOU KNOW BLUE 
HER KITS MUST BE WHISKER--NO WAY IS SHE EVER 





BLUE WHISKER 
ALWAYS WAS A 
CHATTY CAT. 





I WONDER... IF BLUE WHISKER'S 
KITS REALLY ARE CLOSE, MAYBE... 


MAYBE I SHOULD VISIT? 


Ár ann 





W VA! | 
S THE THUNDERCLAN CAMP 
16 BUSY AS USUAL. 

— = 


= 


W \ I DON'T WANT TO BE IN THE WAY. 
MINY MAYBE THIS WASN'T A GOOD IDEA. N 
r— 


E i I THINK IT WOULD 
BLUE WHISKER'S KITS ARE MAKE BLUE WHISKER FEEL 
COMING, BUT OUR MEDICINE CAT IS MUCH BETTER. 


I OFF COLLECTING HERBS, AND WE 
k HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO FINO HIM. 
m 
BUT THIS IS WHY I CHOSE TO GIVE 
jj UP MY KITS IN THE FIRST PLACE. 


I CAN'T TREAT BLUE WHISKER AS MY 
KIT--I HAVE TO TREAT HER AS IF SHE'S 
SIMPLY ANOTHER CAT IN NEED. AND I 
MUST HELP ANY CAT IN NEED. 














OF COURSE, 
THUNDERSTAR. I'D BE 
HAPPY TO HELP. 


NP ey. 





BUT, WELL... 
I HAVE TO WARN YOU. IF ANYTHING, 
BLUE WHISKER'S ANXIETY IS MAKING 
HER TALK EVEN MORE THAN USUAL. 


OH, THAT'S NOTHING 
TO WORRY ABOUT, 


THUNDERSTAR. I'VE SEEN SIMILAR 


THINGS WITH OTHER KITTING 
SHE-CATS. 


„BUT TVE NEVER DONE 
THIS BEFORE AND IT'S ALL SO 
STRANGE AND T JUST DON'T KNOW 
IF WHAT'S HAPPENING IS SUPPOSED 
TO HAPPEN AND I-- 


MY KIT OR NOT, WE 
FALL INTO A FAMILIAR 


SOON BLUE WHISKER 
DELIVERS THREE ABSOLUTELY 
GORGEOUS KITS. 


TM SO GLAD YOU'RE 

HERE, MOTH FLIGHT! OUR 
MEDICINE CAT TOLD ME 
WHAT TO EXPECT, BUT... ý 


¿A 


BLUE WHISKER, 
TAKE A BREATH. 
YOU'RE DOING FINE. 


YOU--GIVE HER 
MORE PADDING 


THE EXPERIENCE TIRES HER OUT 
SO MUCH THAT SHE ACTUALLY 
FALLS SILENT. 


I TRY NOT TO SHOW IT TOO MUCH, 
BUT,..WATCHING MY OWN KIT GIVE 
BIRTH...SEEING HOW BEAUTIFUL 
HER KITS ARE... 





I DON'T KNOW THE LAST BUT AT THE SAME TIME, 
TIME I'VE FELT THIS HAPP' I CAN'T HELP BUT WONDER... 


«HOW MUCH DID I MISS OUT 
ON? HOW MUCH DID I NEVER SEE, 
BECAUSE I CHOSE THIS PATH? 


IT PUTS ME RIGHT BACK AT MY 
OWN KITTING... MAKES ME RELIVE 
THE JOY I FELT, WHEN BLUE 
WHISKER AND HER BROTHERS AND 
SISTER ARRIVED. 


I CAN'T BELIEVE 
IT! TT'S...IT'S SO 
GOOD TO SEE YOU! 


BUT WHY HAVE YOU 5 I JUST... I SENSED 
COME? WHY NOW? THAT I SHOULD COME 
HERE TODAY. 


AND LOOK AT WHAT T FIND! y 


MY SISTER KITTING, AND OUR MOTHER ~ 
WATCHING OVER HER! WHO WOULD 
HAVE THOUGHT? 





IT'S NOT REALLY THAT 
STRANGE, HONESTLY. NOT TO ME. 


BUT... WHERE'S 


NO, NO, NO-- “Y 
f YOU NEED TO GET 
4 CLOSER TO THE 
4 GROUND! 
ae | 


THAT WAY YOU GET MORE SPRING 
IN YOUR LEGS--MORE DISTANCE out 7 
OF YOUR LEAP! 


I HEAR SKYSTAR 
TYPICAL OF HONEY PELT. TREATS HONEY PELT LIKE 
A SKYCLAN CAT, BUTTING HIS OWN SON. 
INTO ANOTHER CLAN'S 
TRAINING SESSION ANO 
TAKING IT OVER! 


HE'S SO MUCH LIKE HIS 
FATHER. I CAN PRACTICALLY 
SEE MICAH DOING THAT VERY 

THING HIMSELF. 


|| BUTTING IN OR NOT, IT'S FANTASTIC 
TO SEE THE CLANS COOPERATING. roy ALWAYS ASKING HIM 
A FOR ADVICE ON HUNTING 
AND FIGHTING. 





HE'S SO HANDSOME. GROWN s m WILL HE BE AS HAPPY TO SEE 
INTO A FINE CAT, JUST LIKE HIS A ME AS BUBBLING STREAM AND 
LITTERMATES. BLUE WHISKER? 


«TO HAVE ALL FOUR 
OF MY KITS CLOSE AGAIN, 
ALL AT ONCE. 


FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE I SENT 
THEM ON THEIR WAY. ME AND MY 
KITS, TOGETHER. 


I KNOW IT'S BEEN 
AWHILE SINCE I'VE 
SEEN YOU... 


«BUT I DION’T THINK 
YOUR FUR HAD TIME TO 
GET THIS GRAY! 





HUSH, YOU! RESPECT | 


YOUR ELDERS! 


AND COME--YOUR 
SISTER JUST KITTED. / THEY'RE GORGEOUS, 
COME AND MEET THE BLUE WHISKER. YOU 
LITTLE ONES. MUST BE SO PROUD. 


ACTUALLY, HONEY PELT, 
SINCE YOU MENTIONED THE 
PASSING OF TIME... 


HELLO, LITTLE ONES! 
WELCOME TO THE WORLD. 


s1 DO EXPECT TO 
BE HUNTING WITH MICAH IN 
STARCLAN VERY SOON. 


IN FACT, TVE BEEN 
DREAMING ABOUT IT. 


BUT...BUT THAT'S RIDICULOUS! 
I DIDN'T MEAN IT ABOUT THE GRAY 
FUR--YOU'VE GOT PLENTY OF TIME 
LEFT! LOTS OF TIME! 


PT WORRY. I DON'T WANT 
ANY OF YOU TO GET UPSET OVER 
THIS. I WILL GO TO STARCLAN A 


ins 


‚BECAUSE I AM 
so 


I KNOW I MADE 
THE RIGHT CHOICE, AL! 
THOSE MOONS AGO-- 





LISTEN CLOSELY. NO 
MOTHER COULD EVER BE 
PROUDER OF HER KITS. 


AND I WANT YOU TO 
CONTINUE ON THE PATHS YOU'VE 
CHOSEN. YOU HEAR ME? 


HELP AS MANY CATS 
AS YOU CAN... 





AND TAKE GOOD CARE 
OF YOUR KITS. LOVE THEM 
EVERY DAY. EVERY DAY. 


I WILL. 
I PROMISE. 


I KNOW THIS IS THE LAST 


TIME THE FIVE OF US WILL EVER 


BE TOGETHER LIKE THIS. 


I CAN ONLY HOPE THEY UNDERSTAND 
HOW MUCH I LOVE THEM ALL. 
HOW PROUD THEY'VE MADE ME. 





BUT I UNDERSTAND 
NOW THAT MY TIME HERE IS 
ALMOST FINISHED... 


„AND THAT VERY SOON, 
MICAH AND I WILL BE 
TOGETHER AGAIN... 


AND AS I FOLLOW THE MOTI 
THE MOTH THAT I’M SURE 
STARCLAN HAS SENT FOR ME... 


D~ W 





Excerpt from Warriors: A Vision of 
Shadows #1: The Apprentices Quest 


A new adventure begins for the warrior Clans. 
Read on for a sneak peek at 


A VISION OF SHADOWS 


WARRIORS 


THE APPRENTICE’S 


QUEST 





For many moons, the warrior cats have lived in peace 
in their territories around the lake. But a dark shadow 
looms on the horizon, and the time has come for 
Alderpaw—son of the ThunderClan leader, 
Bramblestar, and his deputy, Squirrelflight—to shape 
his destiny . . . and the fate of all the warrior Clans. 





CHAPTER 1 
Cog 


Alderkit stood in front of the nursery, nervously 
shifting his weight. He unsheathed his claws, digging 
them into the beaten earth of the stone hollow, then 
sheathed them again and shook dust from his paws. 

Now what happens? he asked himself, his belly 
churning as he thought about his apprentice ceremony 
that was only moments away. What if theres some 
sort of an assessment before I can be an 
apprentice? 

Alderkit thought he had heard something about an 
assessment once. Perhaps it had been a few moons 
ago when Hollytuft, Fernsong, and Sorrelstripe were 
made warriors. But I can t really remember . . . I was 
so little then. 

His heart started to pound faster and faster. He 
tried to convince himself that some cat would have told 
him if he was supposed to prove that he was ready. 
Because I’m not sure that I am ready to become an 
apprentice. Not sure at all. What if I cant do it? 

Deep in his own thoughts, Alderkit jumped in 


surprise as some cat nudged him hard from behind. 
Spinning around, he saw his sister Sparkkit, her orange 
tabby fur bushing out in all directions. 

“Aren’t you excited?” she asked with an 
enthusiastic bounce. “Don’t you want to know who 
your mentor will be? I hope I get someone fun! Not a 
bossy cat like Berrynose, or one like Whitewing. She 
sticks so close to the rules I think she must recite the 
warrior code in her sleep!” 

“That's enough.” The kits’ mother, Squirrelflight, 
emerged from the nursery in time to hear Sparkkit's 
last words. “You're not supposed to have fun with 
your mentor,” she added, licking one paw and 
smoothing it over Sparkkit’s pelt. “You're supposed to 
learn from them. Berrynose and Whitewing are both 
fine warriors. You’d be very lucky to have either of 
them as your mentor.” 

Though Squirrelflight’s voice was sharp, her green 
gaze shone with love for her kits. Alderkit knew how 
much his mother adored him and his sister. He was 
only a kit, but he knew that Squirrelflight was old to 
have her first litter, and he remembered their shared 
grief for his lost littermates: Juniperkit, who had barely 


taken a breath before he died, and Dandelionkit, who 
had never been strong and who had slowly weakened 
until she also died two moons later. 

Sparkkit and I have to be the best cats we can 
be for Squirrelf light and Bramblestar. 

Sparkkit, meanwhile, wasn’t at all cowed by her 
mother’s scolding. She twitched her tail and cheerfully 
shook her pelt until her fur fluffed up again. 

Alderkit wished he had her confidence. He hadn’t 
wondered until now who his mentor would be, and he 
gazed around the clearing at the other cats with new 
and curious eyes. /vypool would be an okay mentor, 
he thought, spotting the silver-and-white tabby she-cat 
returning from a hunting patrol with Lionblaze and 
Blossomfall. Shes friendly and a good hunter. 
Lionblaze is a bit scary, though. Alderkit suppressed 
a shiver at the sight of the muscles rippling beneath the 
golden warrior’s pelt. And it wont be Blossomfall, 
because she was just mentor for Hollytuft. Or 
Brackenfur or Rosepetal, because they mentored 
Sorrelstripe and Fernsong. 

Lost in thought, Alderkit watched Thornclaw, who 
had paused in the middle of the clearing to give himself 


a good scratch behind one ear. He’d probably be 
okay, though he 5 sort of short-tempered. . . . 

“Hey, wake up!” Sparkkit trod down hard on 
Alderkit’s paw. “It’s starting!” 

Alderkit realized that Bramblestar had appeared on 
the Highledge outside his den, way above their heads 
on the wall of the stone hollow. 

“Let every cat old enough to catch their own prey 
join here beneath the Highledge for a Clan meeting!” 
Bramblestar yowled. 

Alderkit gazed at his father admiringly as all the 
cats in the clearing turned their attention to him and 
began to gather together. Hes so confident and 
strong. I’m so lucky to be the son of such an 
amazing cat. 

Bramblestar ran lightly down the tumbled rocks 
and took his place in the center of the ragged circle of 
cats that was forming at the foot of the rock wall. 
Squirrelflight gently nudged her two kits forward until 
they too stood in the circle. 

Alderkit’s belly began to churn even harder, and he 
tightened all his muscles to stop himself from 
trembling. J cant do this! he thought, struggling not to 


panic. 

Then he caught sight of his father’s gaze on him: 
such a warm, proud look that Alderkit instantly felt 
comforted. He took a few deep breaths, forcing 
himself to relax. 

“Cats of ThunderClan,” Bramblestar began, “this is 
a good day for us, because it’s time to make two new 
apprentices. Sparkkit, come here, please.” 

Instantly Sparkkit bounced into the center of the 
circle, her tail standing straight up and her fur bristling 
with excitement. She gazed confidently at her leader. 

“From this day forward,” Bramblestar meowed, 
touching Sparkkit on her shoulder with his tail-tip, “this 
apprentice will be known as Sparkpaw. Cherryfall, you 
will be her mentor. I trust that you will pass on to her 
your dedication to your Clan, your quick mind, and your 
excellent hunting skills.” 

Sparkpaw dashed across the circle to Cherryfall, 
bouncing with happiness, and the ginger she-cat bent 
her head to touch noses with her. 

“Sparkpaw! Sparkpaw!” the Clan began to yowl. 

Sparkpaw gave a pleased little hop as her 
Clanmates chanted her new name, her eyes shining as 


she stood beside her mentor. 

Alderkit joined in the acclamation, pleased to see 
how happy his sister looked. Thank StarClan! There 
wasn t any kind of test to prove that she was ready. 

As the yowling died away, Bramblestar beckoned 
to Alderkit with his tail. “Your turn,’ he meowed, his 
gaze encouraging A lderkit on. 

Alderkit’s legs suddenly felt wobbly as he 
staggered into the center of the circle. His chest felt 
tight, as if he couldn’t breathe properly. But as he 
halted in front of Bramblestar, his father gave him a 
slight nod to steady him, and he stood with his head 
raised as Bramblestar rested the tip of his tail on his 
shoulder. 

“From this day forward, this apprentice will be 
known as Alderpaw,’ Bramblestar announced. 
“Molewhisker, you will be his mentor. You are loyal, 
determined, and brave, and I know that you will do 
your best to pass on these qualities to your 
apprentice.” 

As he padded across the clearing to jom his 
mentor, Alderpaw wasn’t sure how he felt. He knew 
that Molewhisker was Cherryfall’s littermate, but the 


big cream-and-brown tom was much quieter than his 
sister, and had never shown much interest in the kits. 
His gaze was solemn as he bent to touch noses with 
Alderpaw. 

I hope I can make you proud of me, Alderpaw 
thought. I’m going to try my hardest! 

“Alderpaw! Alderpaw!” 

Alderpaw ducked his head and gave his chest fur a 
few embarrassed licks as he heard his Clan 
caterwauling his name. At the same time, he thought 
he would burst with happiness. 

At last the chanting died away and the crowd of 
cats began to disperse, heading toward their dens or 
the fresh-kill pile. Squirrelflight and Bramblestar 
padded over to join their kits. 

“Well done,” Bramblestar meowed. “It wasn’t so 
scary, was it?” 

“It was great!” Sparkpaw responded, her tail 
waving in the air. “I can’t wait to go hunting!” 

“We’re so proud of both of you,” Squirrelflight 
purred, giving Sparkpaw and then Alderpaw a lick 
around their ears. “I’m sure you’ll both be wonderful 
warriors one day.” 


Bramblestar dipped his head in agreement. “I 
know you both have so much to give your Clan.” He 
stepped back as he finished speaking, and waved his 
tail to draw Molewhisker and Cherryfall closer. “Listen 
to your mentors,” he told the two new apprentices. 
“I'm looking forward to hearing good things about your 
progress.” 

With an affectionate nuzzle he turned away and 
headed toward his den. Squirrelflight too gave her kits 
a quick cuddle, and then followed him. Alderpaw and 
Sparkpaw were left alone with Molewhisker and 
Cherryfall. 


Back Ads 


FOLLOW THE ADVENTURES! 
WARRIORS: THE PROPHECIES BEGIN 


In the first series, sinister perils threaten the four warrior Clans. 
Into the midst of this turmoil comes Rusty, an ordinary housecat, 
who may just be the bravest of them all. 


HARPER 


www. Warriorcats.co! 
An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers WWW.Warriorcat 





WARRIORS: THE NEW PROPHECY 


THE NEW PROPHECY 


DIOS 


JB 


N HUNTER 


STARLIGHT 


In the second series, follow the next generation of heroic cats as 
they set off on a quest to save the Clans from destruction. 


HARPER 


ae petaen elec! www.warriorcats.com 





VVARRIORS : POWER OF THREE 


POWER OF T 


is 
a ar ` 


e? 


RIN HUN { 


OF THREE I BONS Of une 


ECL 


In the third series, Firestar's grandchildren begin their 
training as warrior cats. Prophecy foretells that they will 
hold more power than any cats before them. 


SEE 


EOS MS | yo 


HARPER 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers www.warriorcats.com 








WARRIORS: OMEN OF THE STARS 


OMEM OF THE STARS OMEN OF 


WARRIORS iS 


iN 


THE LAST HOPE 


In the fourth series, find out which ThunderClan 
apprentice will complete the prophecy. 


HARPER 


An Imprint of Harp www.warriorcats.com 





WARRIORS: DAWN OF THE CLANS 


DAWN OF THE CLANS, 


ERIN HUNTER“ 


won > 


ERIN HUNTER 


In this prequel series, 
discover how the warrior Clans came to be. 


HARP! 


An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers www.warriorcats.com 





WARRIORS: SUPER EDITIONS 


BLUESTAR'S 
„ PROPDECY | 


ERIN HUNTER 


IN HUNT! 


ai imd 





TALLSTAR'S 
„ REVENGE 


© ERIN HUNTER ? ERIN HUNTER 


These extra-long, stand-alone adventures will take you deep inside each of the 
Clans with thrilling adventures featuring the most legendary warrior cats. 


HARPER 


‘An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers Ry val Oral 





WoE BONUS STORIES 


HOLLYLEAF’S DISTYSTA 
STORY ODEN 


ERIN HUNTER 


ERIN HUNTER 


Discover the untold stories of the warrior cats and Clans when you download the 
separate ebook novellas—or read them in two paperback bind-ups! 


www.warriorcats.com 





WARRIORS: FIELD GUIDES 


WARRIORS - 


ERIN HUNTER 


ERIN HUNTER 


Delve deeper into the Clans with these Warriors field guides. 


HARPER 


www.warriorcats.co! 
An Imprint of HarperColinsPublishers AO a CON 





ALSO BY ERIN HUNTER: 


SERVOS 


SURVIVORS: THE ORIGINAL SERIES 


ERIN HUNTER 





SURVIVORS: THE GATHERING DARKNESS 


In the second series, 
tensions are rising 
within the pack. 


Download the three separate ebook novellas or 
read them in one paperback bind-up! 





ALSO BY ERIN HUNTER: 


SEEKERS 


oo THE ul SERIES 


Three young bears . . . one de 
Discover the fate that awaits them on their adventure. 


SEEKERS: RETURN TO THE a 


The stakes are higher than ever as the bears search for a way home. 


SEEKERS: MANGA 





About the Author 


ERIN HUNTER is inspired by a love of cats and a 
fascination with the ferocity of the natural world. In 
addition to having great respect for nature in all its 
forms, Erin enjoys creating rich mythical explanations 
for animal behavior. She is also the author of the 
bestselling Seekers and Survivors series. 


Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at 
hc.com. 


Books by Erin Hunter 


JARRIORS 


THE PROPHECIES BEGIN 


Book One: Into the Wild 
Book Two: Fire and Ice 
Book Three: Forest of Secrets 
Book Four: Rising Storm 
Book Five: A Dangerous Path 
Book Six: The Darkest Hour 


THE NEW PROPHECY 


Book One: Midnight 
Book Two: Moonrise 
Book Three: Dawn 
Book Four: Starlight 
Book Five: Twilight 


Book Six: Sunset 


POWER OF THREE 


Book One: The Sight 
Book Two: Dark River 
Book Three: Outcast 
Book Four: Eclipse 
Book Five: Long Shadows 
Book Six: Sunrise 


OMEN OF THE STARS 


Book One: The Fourth Apprentice 
Book Two: Fading Echoes 
Book Three: Night Whispers 
Book Four: Sign of the Moon 
Book Five: The Forgotten Warrior 
Book Six: The Last Hope 


DAWN OF THE CLANS 


Book One: The Sun Trail 
Book Two: Thunder Rising 
Book Three: The First Battle 


Book Four: The Blazing Star 
Book Five: A Forest Divided 
Book Six: Path of Stars 


EXPLORE Tbe 


Warriors Super Edition: Firestar s Quest 
Warriors Super Edition: Bluestar s Prophecy 
Warriors Super Edition: SkyClan s Destiny 
Warriors Super Edition: Crookedstar s Promise 
Warriors Super Edition: Yellowfang s Secret 
Warriors Super Edition: Tallstar s Revenge 
Warriors Super Edition: Bramblestar s Storm 
Warriors Field Guide: Secrets of the Clans 
Warriors: Cats of the Clans 
Warriors: Code of the Clans 
Warriors: Battles of the Clans 


Warriors: Enter the Clans 
Warriors: The Ultimate Guide 
Warriors: The Untold Stories 
Warriors: Tales from the Clans 


MANGA 


The Lost Warrior 
Warrior s Refuge 
Warrior s Return 
The Rise of Scourge 
Tigerstar and Sasha #1: Into the Woods 
Tigerstar and Sasha #2: Escape from the Forest 
Tigerstar and Sasha #3: Return to the Clans 
Ravenpaw s Path #1: Shattered Peace 
Ravenpaw Path #2: A Clan in Need 
Ravenpaws Path #3: The Heart of a Warrior 
SkyClan and the Stranger #1: The Rescue 
SkyClan and the Stranger #2: Beyond the Code 
SkyClan and the Stranger #3: After the Flood 


NOVELLAS 
Hollyleaf 5 Story 


Mistystar s Omen 
Cloudstar s Journey 
Tigerclaw’s Fury 
Leafpool's Wish 
Mapleshade s Vengeance 
Goosefeather 5 Curse 


SFERRS 


Book One: The Quest Begins 
Book Two: Great Bear Lake 
Book Three: Smoke Mountain 
Book Four: The Last Wilderness 
Book Five: Fire in the Sky 
Book Six: Spirits in the Stars 


RETURN TO THE WILD 


Book One: Island of Shadows 
Book Two: The Melting Sea 
Book Three: River of Lost Bears 
Book Four: Forest of Wolves 
Book Five: The Burning Horizon 


MANGA 


Toklo s Story 
Kallik s Adventure 


URVIVORS 


Book One: The Empty City 
Book Two: A Hidden Enemy 
Book Three: Darkness Falls 
Book Four: The Broken Path 
Book Five: The Endless Lake 

Book Six: Storm of Dogs 


THE GATHERING DARKNESS 
Book One: A Pack Divided 


Survivors: Tales from the Packs 


NOVELLAS 


Alphas Tale 
Sweets Journey 
Moons Choice 


Credits 


Cover art © 2015 by Owen Richardson 
Series cover design by Ellice M. Lee 


Copyright 


MOTH FLIGHT’S VISION. Copyright © 2015 by Working Partners 
Limited. Series created by Working Partners Limited. Map art 
2015 by Dave Stevenson. Interior art 2015 by Owen 
Richardson. Manga text copyright © 2015 by Working 
Partners Limited. Manga art copyright © 2015 by 
HarperCollins Publishers. All rights reserved under 
International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By 
payment of the required fees, you have been granted the 
nonexclusive, nontrans ferable right to access and read the 
text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be 
reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse- 
engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information 
storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, 
whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter 
invented, without the express written permission of 
HarperCollins e-books. 
www.harpercollinschildrens.com 





Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Hunter, Erin. 
Moth Flight’s vision / Erin Hunter. — First edition. 
pages cm. — (Warriors) 
Summary: “Strange visions drive a young WindClan cat 
named Moth Flight to leave her home on a journey that will 


change the future of the new warrior Clans forever”— 
Provided by publisher. 

ISBN 978-0-06-229147-9 (hardcover) 

ISBN 978-0-06-229 148-6 (library) 

EPub Edition © October 2015 ISBN 9780062291509 

Version 04222016 

[1. Cats—Fiction. 2. Visions—Fiction. 3. Voyages and 
travels—Fiction. 4. Fantasy.] I. Title. 


PZ7.H916625M q 2015 2014041203 
[Fic]—dc23 CIP 
AC 


TT | 
15 16 17 18 cc/rron 10987654321 


. 


FIRST EDITION 


About the Publisher 


Australia 
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. 
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia 


www.harpercollins.com.au 


Canada 
HarperCollins Canada 
2 Bloor Street East - 20th Floor 
Toronto, ON M4W 1A8, Canada 


www.harpercollins.ca 


New Zealand 
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand 
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive 
Rosedale 0632 
Auckland, New Zealand 


www.harpercollins.co.nz 


United Kingdom 
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd. 


1 London Bridge Street 
London SE1 9GF, UK 


www.harpercollins.co.uk 


United States 
HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 
195 Broadway 
New York, NY 10007 


www.harpercollins.com 


